DRN -3253492  
 
 
 
 
 
Complaint  
 
Mr P complains that Westerby Trustee Services Limited (Westerby) should have done 
more due diligence before accepting the investments he made in his Self -Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP).  
 
Background  
 
Westerby has been represented by two law firms for periods of our investigation of this 
complaint, and those law firms have made submissions on behalf of Westerby at various 
times. For simplicity, I have referred to Westerby throughout, whether the submissions came 
directly from Westerby or were made on it s behalf.  
 
The SIPP and investment applications  
 
Mr P held a personal pension scheme. Acting of the advice of a ................................ , 
Mr P switched the cash value of that pension into a SIPP with Westerby.  
 
Mr P signed an application for a Westerby SIPP on 4 F ebruary 2013. On the application 
form, in the section titled Independent Financial Advisor, the name of the advisor was given 
as ..........................  and the name of the firm as  Joseph Oliver  with the address  As 
previous . 
 
Westerby says it understood ............ .........  was, at the time of the application, an appointed 
representative of Joseph Oliver  Mediacao de Seguros LDA (Joseph Oliver LDA), a 
financial advisory firm based in Portugal. At the relevant time Joseph Oliver LDA passported 
into the UK under t he Insurance Mediation Directive (IMD). This means that during those 
dates, Joseph Oliver LDA was an EEA authorised firm and permitted to carry out some 
regulated activities in the UK.  
 
An application form for an investment platform called E -Portfolio solutions was also signed 
by Mr P on the same day as the SIPP application form (i.e. 4 February 2013). This recorded 
the financial advisors name as ..........................  and the financial advi ce firm as  Joseph 
Oliver Marketing Limited . Joseph Oliver Marketing Limited (JOML) was a UK registered 
company, which was not authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  
 
The investment application form was signed by Westerby, as trustees of M r Ps SIPP, on 1 
March 2013. The application form did not contain any details of where Mr Ps money was to 
be invested. But statements later produced show it was invested in the Kijani Commodity 
Fund, which was at the time based in Mauritius (later based i n the Cayman Islands), and the 
Swiss Asset Micro Assist Income Fund (SAMAIF), which was based in Mauritius.  
 
Commission of £1,346.39 was paid on 8 March 2013, representing 3% of the transfer value. 
This was paid directly to ......................... . Westerby say s this was in accordance with an 
instruction from ................................ , who was the Managing Director of Joseph Oliver LDA.  
Abana Unipessoal Lda  
 
On 17 May 2013 Joseph Oliver LDA wrote to Westerby, to say ..................  had terminated 
his agreeme nt with it and, under that agreement, clients would return to .................. . On the 
same day Abana Unipessoal Lda (Abana) - another financial advisory firm based in 
Portugal  wrote to Westerby to say all of .....................  clients were to be transferred to it. 
So Abana was the financial advice firm associated with Mr Ps SIPP after this date.  
 
Updates on the investments  
 
On 11 November 2014 Westerby wrote to Mr P about his investments in the Kijani and 
SAMAIF funds. It explained that the funds would, followi ng a Policy Statement from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in August 2014, be considered to be non -standard 
assets. It explained that the funds might be higher risk than Mr P originally considered. Its 
letter also said the Mauritian Financial Servi ces Commission had issued enforcement orders 
against both the Kijani and the SAMAIF funds.  
 
Westerby  strongly urged  Mr P to contact his  regulated financial advisor , Abana, and 
asked him to confirm whether he wanted to continue to hold the investments o r for Westerby 
to attempt to sell them. Mr P confirmed to Westerby on 12 November 2014 that hed sought 
financial advice from ..............................  of Abana and wished to continue to hold his 
investments in the funds.  
 
23 June 2015 Westerby again wrote to Mr P about his investments in the Kijani and SAMAIF 
funds. This letter reminded Mr P that the funds were now considered non standard assets. In 
relation to the Kijani fund the letter explained it had been announced the fund managers had 
taken the decision to li quidate all the funds assets and return client money within 30 -60 
days, but it wasnt clear where the announcement had come from and some investors had 
made redemption requests over 90 days ago but not received any money.  
 
This letter also explained the advisor dealing with Abana clients (by this point a Kenda 
Binns, not ...................... ) had by that point become  directly authorised with the FCA  
under a new firm  Abana FS Ltd. This was a UK based, FCA authorised firm.  
 
Again W esterby  strongly urged  Mr P to contact his  regulated financial advisor , Abana 
(referring, I assume, to Abana FS). It did not however ask Mr P to confirm whether he 
wanted to continue to hold the investments on this occasion.  
 
A further letter about the  funds from Westerby to Mr P followed on 17 July 2015.  
 
This explained that the administrator of the E -Portfolio platform had had its licence 
suspended by the Mauritius Financial Services Commission. It further explained that efforts 
were underway to trace  where the Kijani fund had been invested and that both that fund and 
the SAMAIF fund were suspended. The letter said a further update would follow. At its 
conclusion the letter said:  
 
In the meantime, we recommend that you seek financial advice from an in dependent 
financial adviser who is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority. Please be aware that 
as detailed in our accompanying letter, Abana FS Limited are not deemed to be suitably 
independent.  
 
The final letter (that I have seen) sent to Mr P ab out the funds was sent to Westerby on 23 
December 2015. The letter of that date said:  we now have further information regarding the EPS platform, the Swiss Asset Micro 
Assist Income Fund (SAMAIF) and the Kijani Fund.  
 
We have been in corr espondence with the new managers of the platform and with Asset 
Management International to confirm details of your redemption (sale) request. We 
understand that trades in the underlying funds have been placed.  
 
The illiquid funds within your portfolio can not be sold at present, and will remain within the 
SIPP EPS account for the time being.  
 
Based on the information that we have been provided with, the current value of the liquid 
and illiquid elements of the investment are as follows:  
 
Liquid Funds: £18,582.33 (SAMAIF expected to trade again in February) 
Illiquid Funds: £18,354.49 (this is not  a true value - please see below)  
 
The letter says the following about SAMAIF:  
 
We have been informed that the suspension on this fund has been lifted, however it is not 
yet active, pending final authority from the Mauritius Financial Services Commission . 
 
EPS have included the value of this fund in the liquid Funds referred to above We have been 
advised that this is because the underlying assets and the value of the fund has been 
verified, and that the fund is expected to begin trading again in February 2016 . 
 
Although the letter refers to confirming details of a redemption (sale) request it appears that 
Mr P had not, in fact, made a redemption request as there is no evidence to show any such 
request was ever made by him.  
 
In its 6 June 2016 submissions to us on another complaint featuring SAMAIF Westerby said:  
 
The SAMAIF is also currently not trading. It is our understanding that they are currently in 
communication with the Mauritian regulators in order to enable redemptions from the fund, 
however there  are no definitive timescales as yet. A copy of their latest update is enclosed.  
 
I have also seen a copy of a 24 April 2016 update from SAMAIF, which suggests work to 
begin trading is still ongoing.  
 
Mr Ps recollections of events  
 
Mr Ps wife, Mrs P, has detailed her recollection of events, on Mr Ps behalf.  
 
Mrs P says she and Mr P understood Mr P was investing in the Kijani fund, and they were 
first approached by someone claiming to work for .........................................  then visited 
them. Mrs P says Mr P was only ever talked to about investing in the Kijani Fund, and was 
not sure they ever understood it involved a SIPP nor what this meant.  
 
Mrs P says Mr P was advised by ..........................  to cancel his personal pension, cash out  
£10,000, and  put the rest into a Kijani SIPP. She says this wasnt really explained in any 
detail, just that it would give the best returns. She says the SAMAIF was never mentioned 
and they later queried the way in which it was recorded on the E -Portfolio platform, when 
they finally received the log in details for the platform, since they didnt understand what was 
going on.  Mrs P says they had to pester ....................  to get any documentation confirming the 
investment and a method of monitoring the situat ion, via E -Portfolio and that ..................  
disappeared when things started to go wrong.  
 
Mrs P says she can recall Mr P receiving a couple of letters to say things were being moved 
from Joseph Oliver LDA to Abana, and from various people raising alarms over  the 
performance and validity of Kijani, and that there were problems. But on enquiry before 
.....................  disappeared she was advised not to do anything and that the people sending 
the letters were scaremongering.  
 
Mrs P says Mr P was in hospital undergoing  chemotherapy for terminal Leukaemia at the 
time of these letters, so she was dealing with things and did not consult with him, to keep the 
stressful situation from him. She says by the time Mr Ps health had improved a little it was 
too late to do anythin g as things had gone totally awry.  
 
Our investigators view  
 
Our investigator concluded Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He said, in summary:  
 
 Joseph Oliver LDA was domiciled outside of the United Kingdom. Given this, 
Westerby ought to have made reasonab le enquiries as to whether Joseph Oliver 
LDA had the correct permissions to carry out the business being  proposed.  
 
 Westerby did follow good practice and by putting in place an agreement with Joseph 
Oliver LDA. He noted that in this agreement Joseph Oliver LDA warranted that it was 
suitably authorised by the Financial Services Authority in relation to the sale of the 
SIPP and the advice on underlying  investments.  
 
 However he did not think Westerby could simply rely on this warranty to meet its 
obligations. He thought Westerby should have independently checked Joseph Oliver 
LDAs permissions before accepting  business.  
 
 Westerby says it checked the financial services register and verified that Joseph 
Oliver LDA was authorised to operate within the United Kingdom under an EEA 
passport.  
 
 It says it also checked the register of Joseph Oliver LDAs home state regulator and 
this showed Joseph Oliver LDA was regulated by them and listed their UK passports 
permissions as life and  non-life. 
 
 Joseph Oliver LDA did not have permission to advise on pensions in the UK at all. At 
the time, Westerby was a regulated, professional SIP P provider that presumably 
dealt with financial intermediaries on a daily basis. So its reasonable to expect it to 
be fully aware of the permission requirements pertaining to the conduct of pension 
business, and in particular, the requirements relating to  overseas firms. So its 
reasonable to say it ought to have had the knowledge and expertise to understand 
what permissions were required by Joseph Oliver  LDA.  
 
 If Westerby had made reasonable enquiries it would have concluded that Joseph 
Oliver LDA did not  have the appropriate permissions to give pensions  advice.  
 
 He also thought there were anomalous features of the business which should have 
given Westerby cause for  concern:  o ....................  did not appear to have ever been recorded on the FCA register 
as being an appointed representative of Joseph Oliver  LDA.  
 
o The E -Portfolio application form stated that the financial advisor was JOML which 
was not an FSA/FCA authorised firm. So t here appeared to have been a risk that 
an unregulated business was giving advice on the underlying  investments.  
 
o Consumers that were being introduced by .....................  were investing their 
pensions into unregulated/high risk investments. In addition, consumer s, such as 
Mr P did not appear to be receiving any regulated advice on the  investment.  
 
o There was a significant risk that Joseph Oliver LDAs business model would 
produce unsuitable  SIPPs.  
 
 Overall, his view was that if Westerby had acted in accordance wit h its obligations  
Mr P would have stayed in his previous pension and would not have suffered the loss 
he has complained about.  
 
Previous final decision on a complaint against Westerby  
 
We issued a final decision on another complaint involving Westerbys ac ceptance of a SIPP 
application from Abana in February 2021 (the published decision). That final decision has 
been published on our website under DRN7770418.  
 
Although that decision relates to Abana, rather than Joseph Oliver LDA, this complaint 
features the same key point  namely the permissions held and required by an incoming 
EEA firm dealing with personal pensions in the UK, and Westerbys knowledge of this . 
Westerby has made the same, or very similar, submissions on that case and its latest 
submissions on this case are made with reference to the published decision.  
 
After the published decision was issued, Westerby was asked to take it into consideration, 
as an important representative decision, in accordance with the relevant Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) DISP Rules and Guidance (particularly DISP 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 1.3.2A), which 
should be taken into account when assessing other similar complaints.  
 
On this basis, Westerby was asked to review each outstanding complaint involving Abana 
and Joseph Oliver LDA  including Mr Ps - and if it was not prepared to change its position 
after taking account of the detailed reasons set out in the published decision, to explain why 
that was the case. Westerby declined to change its position, and set out the details of its 
review. It has also made further submissions on this complaint, following the published 
decision.  
 
Westerbys submissions  
 
I have considered all the submissions Westerby has made over the course of this complaint. 
However I have only included a summary of its latest submissions here.  
 
In a letter setting out its general submissions Westerby said, in summary:  
 
 The published decision confirms we contacte d the FCA about whether top up 
permissions appear on the FCA Register and the  FCA confirmed that top up 
permissions do appear on the Register under the Permission page and that the 
FCA understands the same information was available on the Register in  2013.  However there has been no disclosure of the details of the contact at the FCA whom 
the FOS communicated with, records of such communications with the FCA such as 
correspondence, file notes or attendance notes, details of the FCA contact s role at 
the FCA, whether the FCA contact was dealing with the Register in 2013 and had 
knowledge of it, and what the FCA contacts understanding of the Register in 2013 is 
based upon. An understanding of what was on the Register in 2013 is not proof of 
what was actually on the Register at the relevant time. We should now provide full 
disclosure of this information. Not to do so is procedurally  unfair.  
 
 It was reasonable for Westerby to assume from the agreement (in this case with 
Joseph Oliver LDA, but with Abana in the published decision case) that Joseph 
Oliver LDA had the necessary permissions. It does not accept that it ought to have 
been reasonably aware of cause to have questioned the accuracy of the statement in 
the agreement.  
 
 The published decision concedes that information which was not available on the 
Register would not have been provided to Westerby yet says that if it had contacted 
the FCA d irectly the FCA would have been able to confirm permissions. No 
information has been provided about this and the FCAs position  generally.  
 
 Westerby made a Freedom of Information request to the FCA. In response to this the 
FCA confirmed that, in 2013, the Register would have indicated the broad 
permissions held under IMD by a firm which would have been either insurance 
mediation or reinsurance mediation and there was no requirement under the IMD to 
display more detailed activities. The FCA confirmed any fur ther information not 
displayed on the Register would have been considered confidential information under 
section 348 of the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) which prohibits 
disclosure of this  information.  
 
 In the published decision the ombudsman s ought to distinguish the complaint from 
the situation in the Adams court case on the basis that Abana was offering an 
advisory service. It is unclear how Abanas contractually defined role impacts on the 
scope of duty owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R. It  was no part of Westerbys 
contractual obligations to investigate the permissions of third -party  advisers.  
 
 In the published decision the ombudsman failed to follow DISP 3.6.3G, which 
provides:  
 
Where a complainant makes complaints against more than one r espondent in 
respect of connected circumstance, the Ombudsman may determine that the 
respondents must contribute towards the overall award in the proportion that the 
Ombudsman considers appropriate.  
 
 The ombudsman failed to assess apportionment, as well a s causation.  
 
 Despite a related complaint about the actions of Abana the ombudsman decided in 
the published decision that Westerby should compensate for the full extent of the 
consumers financial  losses.  
 
 The complaints against Abana ought to have been decided first as the IFA involved 
in the transaction. At the very least, the complaints against Westerby and Abana 
ought to have been decided together. Instead we dealt with the complaint against 
Westerby fir st, which has led to the failure to address the issue of  apportionment.   We have found against Abana in a number of complaints where a different SIPP 
operator was used and ordered Abana to pay redress yet have not pursued, or 
invited the compl ainants to pursue, the SIPP  operator.  
 
When detailing the outcome of its review of Mr Ps complaint it also made some further 
points. I have considered all of these but think the key ones, in summary, are:  
 
 It is accepted that a "permissions" page existed on the Register at the relevant time, 
however it is not accepted that this contained any useful information relating to 
Joseph Oliver  LDA.  
 
 It does not hold a copy of the "permissions" page for Joseph Oliver LDA. However, it 
has been able to retrieve archi ved copies of the page for other passported firms from 
the relevant time period. In every case the permission page simply shows "No 
matches found". It has no reason to expect that Joseph Oliver LDA's permissions 
page would not have shown the same, and it i s likely that copies of this page were 
not retained as there was no useful  information.  
 
 The "Basic Details" page of Joseph Oliver LDA's Register entry included a field 
labelled "Undertakes Insurance Mediation". It is beyond dispute that the firm was 
able to carry out this activity, but the field was left blank; for UK firms it was always 
completed. So it was not unreasonable to conclude that the Register simply did not 
record Joseph Oliver LDAs  permissions.  
 
 The Register is known to have historically had significant errors, and the FCA itself 
recognises that there can be errors on the Register; the Legal Information section of 
the Register in 2012 and 2013 stated  that: 
 
We try to ensure that the information on this site is correct, but we do not give any 
express or implied warranty as to its accuracy. We do not accept any liability for error 
or omission.  
 
 All of Abana's clients (including those who, like Mr P, had origina lly been advised by 
Joseph Oliver LDA, and later novated to Abana) had two opportunities to mitigate 
losses:  
 
 It wrote to all clients who held investments in the Kijani fund and the SAMAIF 
fund in November 2014. This letter drew the clients' attention to r egulatory 
enforcement actions against the  funds.  
 
 It wrote to all such clients again in December 2015 to inform them that there was 
an opportunity to redeem approximately half of their  funds.  
 
 It remains its position that the clients, including Mr P, had a responsibility (under the 
general principle that consumers should take responsibility for their own decisions) to 
take appropriate action to safeguard their own  funds.  
 
 In Mr P's case, there is no record of him having made contact with Westerby to 
request a redemption following its letter of December 201 5. At the very least Mr P is 
responsible for approximately half of his  losses.  My provisional decision  
 
I recently issued a provisional decision, in which I provisionally concluded Mr Ps complaint 
should be upheld.  
 
I initially made the point that, in this case, it was not actually clear which business Westerby 
was accepting business from  Joseph Oliver LDA or JOML. The SIPP application simply 
says  Joseph Oliver  is the advising business  which could refer to eithe r Joseph Oliver 
LDA or JOML - and the investment application says JOML is the advising business. So I had 
considered both possibilities  starting with Joseph Oliver  LDA.  
 
In relation to Joseph Oliver LDA I said I was satisfied that:  
 
 Westerby ought to hav e identified that Joseph Oliver LDA needed top up 
permissions from the FCA to advise on personal pensions in the UK and it should 
have taken all steps available to it to independently verify that Joseph Oliver LDA had 
the required FCA  permissions.  
 
 If We sterby had taken these steps, it would have established Joseph Oliver LDA did 
not have the permissions it required to give personal pensions advice in the UK, or 
alternatively that it was unable to confirm whether Joseph Oliver LDA had the 
required  permiss ions.  
 
 In either case, it was not fair and reasonable for Westerby to accept business from 
Joseph Oliver  LDA.  
 
In relation to JOML, I said if the adviser was JOML it was clearly engaged in regulated 
activities. And so it was breaching the General Prohibiti on, which prohibits unauthorised 
business from carrying out regulated activities. So it was fair and reasonable to say 
Westerby should have refused to accept either the SIPP or investment application from 
JOML if it were the introducer of the business, rat her than Joseph Oliver LDA.  
 
I also concluded it was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that 
none of the points Westerby had raised were factors which mitigated its decision to accept 
Mr Ps application to open a SIPP in the first place. And I concluded it was fair and 
reasonable to hold Westerby to account for its failure to decline Mr Ps application from 
Joseph Oliver LDA, and for it to be accountable for the financial loss to Mr P that flowed from 
this failure.  
 
As I revis it (and, where appropriate, repeat) my provisional findings below I will not include 
any more than this brief summary here.  
 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr Ps response  
Mrs P, on behalf of Mr P, accepted my provisional decision  she did not make any further 
submissions.  
 
Westerbys response  
 
Westerby did not accept my provisional decision. I have considered Westerbys response in 
its entirety, however I have only summari sed here the points which I consider to be key:   It maintains it should be provided with the information it has requested relating to our 
request for information about the Register made to the FCA. It also considers I 
should clarify my positio n on this. 
 
 It does not agree that Joseph Oliver LDA not holding the relevant top up permissions 
would be a matter of public record  the FCA was only able to confirm what was on 
the Register, not what was missing from  it. 
 
 It maintains it was reasonable f or it to rely on what Joseph Oliver LDA told it. It is 
illogical to say it should have had reason to question what it was  told. 
 
 JOML was a branch of an authorised firm (it provided a link to a page on Joseph 
Oliver LDAs website which it says is evidence of this). Also, the decision in Adams v 
Options confirmed that whilst establishing a SIPP is a regulated activity (so needs to 
be done via an authorised firm) advice on the underlying assets is not. So JOML 
providing advice is not an anomalous  feature.  
 
 It carried out extensive and thorough due diligence on Joseph Oliver LDA, which my 
decision seeks to downplay. No further action taken or not taken by it would have 
changed the outcome of Mr Ps investments into a SIPP, whether provided by it or 
another  provider.  
 
 It acted in accordance with the regulatory publications set out in my provisional 
decision.  
 
 An attempt has been made to distinguish Mr Ps complaint from the decision in 
Adams. However, I have made a material error of law. In Adams HHJ Dight stat ed 
that the scope of the best interests duty at COBS 2.1.1R was to be determined by 
the relevant factual context and, in particular, the parties defined roles and 
functions in the transaction as set out by the terms of their agreement. He therefore 
concluded that the duty argued for on Mr Adams behalf did not arise because the 
defendants role was limited to execution -only. It is unclear how Joseph Oliver LDAs 
contractually defined role is sa id to impact upon the scope of duty owed by Westerby 
under COBS 2.1.1R. It is wrong in principle for me to conclude that the contractual 
responsibilities of an unrelated third -party could somehow be used to define those 
owed by Westerby under COBS  2.1.1R.  
 
 s27 of the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA) is designed to shift the risks of 
accepting business from unauthorised parties onto providers. However, s20 FSMA 
does the exact opposite  it explicitly shields authorised parties from the risks of 
acce pting business from authorised parties acting outside their permissions (such as 
Joseph Oliver  LDA).  
 
 I have failed to assess apportionment. It notes I dealt with apportionment in another 
complaint where the complaint was against an EEA firm that had acted  outside its 
permissions. The decision made an apportionment between the SIPP provider and 
the adviser on a 50/50 basis. It is not clear why the issue of apportionment has not 
been dealt with in this  complaint.  
 
 Its investigations into the financial health  of Joseph Oliver LDA indicate there to be 
very low prospects of recovery from Joseph Oliver LDA. Any indemnity from Joseph 
Oliver LDA and/or assignment of rights to any action against it from Mr P is 
effectively  worthless.   The complaint agai nst Joseph Oliver LDA ought to have been decided first, as it was 
the financial advisor involved in the transaction. At the very least, the complaints 
against it and Joseph Oliver LDA ought to have been decided  together.  
 
 We have upheld complaints against Abana where there was another SIPP operator 
involved but not pursued or invited the complainants to pursue complaints against the 
SIPP operator concerned regarding the due diligence it carried out on  Abana.  
 
 There have bee n discussions with the FCA about compensation being sought for 
investors who lost money as a result of dealing with Abana  this emphasises its 
position that Joseph Oliver LDA should not escape liability. I should consider the true 
gravity of the situation  against Joseph Oliver  LDA.  
 
 If it had rejected Mr Ps application, Joseph Oliver LDA would simply have re -applied 
on behalf of Mr P to another SIPP operator, which Joseph Oliver LDA was using, and 
that SIPP operator would have accepted the  application.  
 
 It is clear that Mr and Mrs P were somewhat distrustful of ...................  even before 
Westerby wrote to them in November 2014. My decision also confirms that  various 
people  were raising alarms over the Kijani  investment.  
 
 It was open to Mrs P to contact West erby to try to get a better understanding of the 
situation, especially as (according to my provisional decision) Mr and Mrs P did not 
understand what a SIPP was. If Mrs P had called Westerby, she might have had a 
better understanding of the risks (though W esterby could not have given her any 
specific advice) and it might have prompted her and Mr P to encash the funds while 
they had the  chance.  
 
 It is not clear why Mr and Mrs P were content with ....................  word that Westerby 
(and apparently others) were  scaremongering , given that they clearly had little 
confidence in him. The concerns about the investments would have led an 
unsophisticated investor to make some reasonable lines of enquiries, regardless of 
.....................  advice.  
 
 In finding that it was not  reasonable for Mr and Mrs P to take some action after 
Westerbys November 2014 letter, I am effectively deciding that Westerby was 
always liable for any subsequent losses irrespective of the duty on Mr P to mitigate 
his losses, and whether or not he compl ied with such  duty.  
 Whilst it has every sympathy that Mr P may not have been in a fit state to deal with 
this at the time due to his illness, it was not aware of that, and even if it was there 
was nothing it could have done  differently.  
 
 However, in the complaint which was th e subject of the published final decision, the 
complainant was able to redeem his funds in May 2016. So it seems likely that Mr P 
could have mitigated his losses with a timely redemption  request.  
 
My findings  
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account 
of relevant law an d regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. This goes wider than the rules and guidance that come under the remit of the FCA. 
Ultimately, Im required to make a decision that I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.  
 
As a preliminary point I note Westerby has asked me to answer specific questions and/or 
respond to specific points. But the purpose  of this decision is to set out my findings on what 
is fair and reasonable, and explain my reasons for reaching those findings, not to offer a 
point by point response to every submission made by the parties to the complaint. And so I 
have focussed on the p oints I believe to be key to my decision.  
 
I have first reconsidered what the relevant considerations are in this case. Having done so, I 
remain of the view that these are as set out in my provisional decision. So I have largely 
repeated below what I said in my provisional decision, whilst taking account of the relevant 
points Westerby has made in its response to my provisional decision.  
 
Relevant considerations  
 
I have carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reason able in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook  are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G).  Principles 2, 3 
and 6 provide:  
 
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.  
 
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs re sponsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems  
 
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.  
 
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says abo ut the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:  
 
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the s pecific 
rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do 
not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific 
applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the 
specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be 
an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules.  
 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:  Indeed, it is my view that it wou ld be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to 
reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would 
be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been 
produced by the FSA, the FOS wo uld find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty 
without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in the 
Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the arg ument about their relationship to specific rules.  
 
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had uph eld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investmen t before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated 
its client fairly.  
 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):  
 
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA correctly 
submitted in their written argument, the role o f the Principles is not merely to cater for 
new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they are, and 
indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the Principles - 
based regulation described by Ouseley J. was pre cisely not to attempt to formulate a 
code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general duties such as 
those set out in Principles 2 and 6.  
 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to tak e when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I 
have described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time as rele vant considerations that were required to be taken into  account.  
 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. I am therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint.  
 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed  down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I have taken account of both 
these judgments when making this decision on Mr Ps case.  
 
I note that the Principles for Businesses did not form part of Mr Adams pleadings i n his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight did not consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So neither of the judgments say anything 
about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be 
clear, I do not say this means Adams is not a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, I 
have taken account of both judgments when  making this decision on Mr Ps case.  I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R ( A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was con sidered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and  found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.  
 
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did 
not so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the 
COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forwar d an entirely new case.  
 
I note that in the High Court judgement HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148: 
 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of th e extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.  
 
Westerby, too, has noted this in its response to my provisional decisi on. And it says I have 
made a  material error  by finding Joseph Oliver LDAs contractually defined role impacts 
upon the scope of duty owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R.  
 
In my provisional decision I noted that there are significant differences between t he breaches 
of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr Adams and the issues in Mr Ps complaint. I remain of that 
view. The breaches alleged by Mr Adams were summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of 
Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he was not asked  to consider the 
question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods investment 
into its SIPP.  
 
I also noted the facts of the case were different, and that I needed to construe the duties 
Westerby owed to Mr P under COBS 2.1.1R in  light of the specific facts of Mr Ps case. I 
remain of that view.  
 
As an example of the factual differences between this complaint and Adams v Options SIPP 
I highlighted in my provisional decision that in Adams HHJ Dight accepted that the 
transaction wit h Options SIPP proceeded without any advice from the business introducing 
the SIPP application. And, in contrast to that, the transaction between Mr P and Westerby 
proceeded on the footing that Mr P was being advised by an authorised advisor . To be clear, 
I made  and make - this point only to illustrate there are factual differences between this 
complaint and Adams v Options  SIPP.  
 
To confirm, I have considered COBS 2.1.1R - alongside the remainder of the relevant 
considerations, and within the factual con text of Mr Ps case, including Westerbys role in the 
transaction.  However, I think it is important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practi ce at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in 
Mr Adams statement of case.  
 
I also want to emp hasise here that I do not say that Westerby was under any obligation to 
advise Mr P on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an 
application because it came about as a result of advice given by a firm which did not have 
the required  permissions to be giving that advice, and had been introduced by that same 
firm, is not the same thing as advising Mr P on the merits of investing and/or transferring to 
the SIPP.  
 
Overall, I remain satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to 
be considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Mr Ps case.  
 
The regulatory publications  
 
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:  
 
 The 2009 and 2012 thematic review  reports.  
 
 The Octob er 2013 finalised SIPP operator  guidance.  
 
 The July 2014 Dear CEO  letter.  
 
The 2009 Thematic Review Report  
 
The 2009 report included the following statement:  
 
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by  Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients.  
 
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consume r outcomes.  
 
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enablin g them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm  giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to 
clients.  Of particular concern we re firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take e nforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their customers 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and ef fectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).  
 
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:  
 
 Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listin g warning  notices.  
 
 Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP  business.  
 
 Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be  identified.  
 
 Being abl e to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarificatio n, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was  recommended.  
 
 Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for ad vice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less  likely.  
 
 Routinely identifying instances of execution -only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such  business.  
 
 Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.  
 
The later publications  
 
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:  
 
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidan ce to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.  
 
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Prin ciple 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client 
for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TC F consumer outcomes.  The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:  
 
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators  
 
Examples of good practice we observed during o ur work with SIPP operators include the 
following:  
 
 Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary  
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un - 
authorised business  warnings.  
 Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a  firm. 
 Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal  with. 
 Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted  shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any  concerns.  
 Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights an d 
the reasons for  this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include:  
 
 conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder  money  
 having cl ear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants,  and 
 using non -regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non - 
regulated  introducers  
 
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:  
 
Due diligence  
 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensur e that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should  consider:   ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, 
or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed 
and the tax charge  paid 
 periodically revi ewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the  scheme  
 having checks which m ay include, but are not limited  to: 
o ensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications 
and skills to introduce different types of business to the firm,  and 
o undertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, ident ifying connected parties and visiting  introducers  
 ensuring all third -party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and  verified  
 good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments,  and 
 ensuring these b enchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm 
to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax - 
relievable investments and n on-standard investments that have not been 
approved by the  firm 
 
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.  
 
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:  
 Correctly establishing  and understanding the nature of an  investment  
 Ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money -laundering or pensions  liberation  
 Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn -up and legally  enforceable)  
 Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and  subsequently  
 Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (f or example that previous investors 
have received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit 
worthy  etc) 
 
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, I have 
considered them in their entirety.  I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter are not formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal guidance does not mean their importance should 
be underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Busine sses apply and 
are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect the 
publications, which set out the regulators expectations  of what SIPP operators should be 
doing, also goes some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice 
and I am, therefore, satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.  
 
It is relevant that when deciding what amounted to have b een good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of t he approach taken by the ombudsman.  
Im also satisfied that Westerby, at the time of the events under consideration here, thought 
the 2009 thematic review report was relevant, and thought that it set out examples of good 
industry practice. Westerby did carry out due diligence on Joseph Oliver LDA. So, it clearly 
thought it was good practice to do so, at the very least.  
 
Like the ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I do not think the fact the publications, (other than 
the 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports), pos t-date the events that took place in 
relation to Mr Ps complaint, mean that the examples of good practice they provide were not 
good practice at the time of the relevant events. Although the later publications were 
published after the events subject to th is complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed 
throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance with the Principles.  
 
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected  SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expecte d of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear the standards 
themselves had not changed.  
 
That doesnt mean that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Westerbys actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO let ter and 
guidance gave non -exhaustive examples of good practice. They did not say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter 
notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depe nd on the circumstances.  
 
In its response to my provisional decision Westerby says (referring to the Court of Appeal 
decision in Adams) that s27 of the FSMA is designed to shift the risks of accepting business 
from unauthorised parties onto providers but s 20 FSMA does the opposite  it shields 
authorised parties from the risks of accepting business from authorised parties acting 
outside their permissions (such as Joseph Oliver LDA). It says the FCA guidance mentioned 
in my provisional decision appears to di rectly contradict the intention of legislation.  
 
s20 says that acting outside the permission given by the FCA is contravention of the 
requirements imposed by the FCA, but that:  
 
(a)does not, except as provided by section 23(1A), make a person guilty of an offence, 
(b)does not, except as provided by section 26A, make any transaction void or 
unenforceable, and  
(c)does not, except as provided by subsection (3), give rise to any right  of action for breach 
of statutory duty  However, I am not making a finding here on whether Mr Ps application is void or 
unenforceable and it is not my role to determine whether an offence has taken place or if 
there is something which gives rise to a right to take legal action. I am making a decision on 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case  and for all the reasons I have 
set out I am satisfied the regulatory publications are a relevant consideration to that decision.  
 
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr Ps SIPP 
application from Joseph Oliver LDA, Westerby complied with its regulatory obligations to act 
with due skill, care and diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its b usiness affairs 
responsibly and effectively, to pay due regard to the interests of its customers, to treat them 
fairly, and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the 
Principles and the publications listed above to p rovide an indication of what Westerby could 
have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.  
 
In this case, the business Westerby was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. I am 
satisfied that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducti ng this business would include 
deciding whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulators reports and guidance provided some examples of good practice observed by the 
FSA and FCA during its work with SIPP oper ators. This included confirming, both initially 
and on an ongoing basis, that introducers that advise clients have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing.  
 
So taking account of the factual context of this case it is my view that in order for Westerby 
to meet its regulatory obligations (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R) it should have 
undertaken sufficient due diligence checks to ensure Joseph Oliver LDA had the required 
permissions to give advice on and make arrangements in re lation to personal pensions in 
the UK before accepting Mr Ps business from it.  
 
Westerby says it did carry out due diligence on Joseph Oliver LDA before accepting 
business from it. And I accept that it did undertake some checks. However, the question I 
need to consider in this complaint is whether Westerby ought to have, in compliance with its 
regulatory obligations, identified that Joseph Oliver LDA did not in fact have the top up 
permissions from the FCA it required to be giving advice on and arranging  personal 
pensions in the UK, and whether Westerby should therefore not have accepted Mr Ps 
application from it.  
 
At the outset I again note that, in this case, it is not actually clear which business Westerby 
was accepting business from  Joseph Oliver L DA or JOML. The SIPP application simply 
says  Joseph Oliver  is the advising business  which could refer to either Joseph Oliver 
LDA or JOML - and the investment application says JOML is the advising business.  
 
In its response to my provisional decision W esterby says JOML was a branch of an 
authorised firm. I assume it means JOML was a branch of Joseph Oliver LDA. In support of 
this, it has provided a link to the contact us page of the website josepholivermsl.com. That 
page includes the following:  
 
Registered Addresses  
 
Joseph Oliver Marketing Ltd  
 
65 London Road, St Albans, Herts, AL1 1LJ, United Kingdom 
Company number: 4844574  Joseph Oliver Mediaao de Seguros Lda,  
 
Galerias Navegador, 75, Av. 25 de Abril, 1011 -C 2750 -515 Cascais 
Portugal Company number: 509011411  
In my view this is not sufficient evidence to show JOML is a branch of Joseph Oliver LDA. It 
shows JOML as a registered address and that information is on Joseph Oliver LDAs 
website. But it also confirms JOML is a separat e entity from Joseph Oliver LDA, by referring 
to JOMLs UK Companies House entry - suggesting JOML might be a subsidiary of Joseph 
Oliver LDA, but not a branch.  
 
So I have again considered both possibilities i.e. that the introducing adviser was JOML or 
Joseph Oliver LDA  and I have again started with Joseph Oliver LDA.  
 
If the adviser was Joseph Oliver LDA?  
 
Having reconsidered my provisional findings on this point I remain of the view set out in my 
provisional decision. So I have largely repeated below w hat I said in my provisional decision, 
whilst taking account of the relevant points Westerby has made in its response to my 
provisional decision.  
 
The regulatory position  
 
Joseph Oliver LDA is based in Portugal and is authorised and regulated in Portugal by 
Autoridade de Supervisao de Seguros e Fundos de Pensoes (the ASF).  
 
Under Article 2 of the Insurance Mediation Directive 2002/92/EC, insurance mediation and 
reinsura nce mediation are defined as:  
 
3. Insurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying out 
other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of insurance, or of concluding 
such contracts, or assisting in the administration and performance of such contracts, 
in particular in the event of a  claim.  
 
4. Reinsurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying 
out other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of reinsurance, or of 
concluding such contract s, or of assisting in the administration and performance of 
such contracts, in particular in the event of a  claim.  
 
In the FSAs consultation paper 201, entitled Implementation of the Insurance Mediation 
Directive for Long -term insurance business it is stated (on page 7):  
 
We are implementing the IMD for general insurance and pure protection business 
from January 2005 (when they will require authorisation).  
 
Unlike general insurance and pure protection policies, the sale of life and pensions 
policies i s already regulated. Life and pensions intermediaries must be authorised by 
us and are subject to our regulation.  
 
Chapter 12 of the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) offers guidance to persons, 
such as Westerby, running personal pension schemes. T he guidance in place at the time the 
application was made for Mr Ps SIPP confirms that a personal pension scheme, for the 
purpose of regulated activities (PERG 12.2):  is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (the Regulated Activities Order) as any scheme other than an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) or a stakeholder pension scheme that is to provide benefits for peo ple: 
 
 on retirement;  or 
 on reaching a particular age;  or 
 on termination of service in an  employment.  
 
It goes on to say:  
 
This will include self -invested personal pension schemes ('SIPPs') as well as personal 
pensions provided to consumers by product companies such as insurers, unit trust 
managers or deposit takers (including free -standing voluntary contribution schemes).  
 
So, under the Regulated Activities Order, a SIPP is a personal pension scheme. Article 82 of 
the Regulated Activities Order (Part III Specified Investments) provides that rights under a 
personal pension scheme are a specified investment.  
 
Westerby itself h ad regulatory permission to establish and operate personal pension 
schemes  a regulated activity under Article 52 of the Regulated Activities Order. It did not 
have permission to carry on the separate activity under Article 10 of effecting and carrying 
out insurance.  
 
At the time of Mr Ps application, SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook set out Guidance on 
passporting issues and SUP App 3.9.7G provided the following table of permissible 
activities under Article 2(3) of the Insurance Mediation Directive in ter ms of the attendant 
Regulated Activities Order Article number:  
 
Table 2B: Insurance Mediation Directive 2 Activities  
 
 
2 Part II RAO 
Activities  Part III RAO 
Investments  
1. Introducing, proposing or carrying out other work 
preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of 
insurance.  Articles 25, 53  
and 64  Articles 75, 89  
(see Note 1)  
2. Concluding contracts of insurance  Articles 21, 25,  
53 and 64  Articles 75, 89  
3. Assisting in the administration and performance of 
contracts of insurance, in particular in the event of a 
claim.  Articles 39A, 64  Articles 75, 89  
 
I note this shows Article 82 investments are not covered by the Insurance Mediation 
Directive.  The guidance in SUP 13A.1.2G of the FCA Handbook at the time of Mr Ps application for 
the SIPP explains that an EEA firm wishing to carry on activ ities in the UK which are outside 
the scope of its EEA rights (i.e. its passporting rights) will require a top up permission under 
Part 4A of the Act (the Act being FSMA). In other words, it needs top up permissions from 
the FCA to carry on regulated a ctivities which arent covered by its IMD passport  rights.  
The relevant rules regarding top up permissions could be found in the FCA Handbook at 
SUP 13A.7. SUP 13A.7.1G states (as at July 2013):  
 
If a person established in the EEA:  
(1) does not have an EEA  right; 
(2) does not have permission as a UCITS qualifier;  and 
(3) does not have, or does not wish to exercise, a Treaty right (see SUP 13A.3.4 G to 
SUP 13A.3.11  G); 
to carry on a particular regulated activity in the United Kingdom, it must seek Part 
4A permission from the appropriate UK regulator to do so (see the appropriate 
UK regulator's website: http://www.fca.org.uk/firms/about -authorisation/getting - 
authorised  for the FCA and www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/authorisations  
/newfirm/default. aspx for the PRA). This might arise if the activity itself is outside 
the scope of the Single Market Directives, or where the activity is included in the 
scope of a Single Market Directive but is not covered by the EEA firm's Home 
State authorisation. If a  person also qualifies for authorisation under Schedules 3, 
4 or 5 to the Act as a result of its other activities, the Part 4A permission is 
referred to in the Handbook as a top -up permission.  
 
In the glossary section of the FCA Handbook EEA authorisation is defined (as at July 2013) 
as: 
 
(in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 to the Act (EEA Passport Rights)):  
 
(a) in relation to an IMD insurance intermediary or an IMD reinsurance 
intermediary, registration with its Home State regulator under article 3 of the 
Insurance Mediation  Directive;  
 
(b) in relation to any other EEA firm, authorisation granted to an EEA firm by 
its Home State regulator for the purpose of the relevant Single Market 
Directive or the auction  regulation  
 
The guidance at SUP App 3 of the F CA Handbook (which I set out above) was readily 
available in 2013 and clearly illustrated that EEA -authorised firms may only carry out 
specified regulated activities in the UK if they have the relevant EEA passport rights.  
 
In this case the regulated activ ities in question did not fall under IMD passporting  they 
required FCA permission for Joseph Oliver LDA to conduct them in the UK. Westerby, acting 
in accordance with its own regulatory obligations, should have ensured it understood the 
relevant rules, g uidance and legislation I have referred to above, (or sought advice on this, to 
ensure it could gain the proper understanding), when considering whether to accept 
business from Joseph Oliver LDA, which was an EEA firm passporting into the UK. It should 
therefore have known - or have checked and discovered - that a business based in Portugal 
that was EEA authorised needed to have top up permissions to give advice and make 
arrangements in relation to personal pensions in the UK. And that top up permissions ha d to 
be granted by the the UK regulator, the  FCA.  In my view, it is fair and reasonable to conclude that in the circumstances of this case 
Westerby ought to have understood that Joseph Oliver LDA required the relevant top up 
permissions from FCA in order to carry on the regulated activities it was underta king.  
 
Westerbys checks on Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions  
 
Again, I have not been persuaded to depart from my provisional decision on this point, so I 
have largely repeated my provisional findings below, taking account of any relevant points 
Westerby has  made in its response to my provisional decision.  
 
Westerby says it took appropriate steps to conduct due diligence on Joseph Oliver LDA and 
it could not and should not reasonably have concluded that Joseph Oliver LDA did not have 
the required top up permi ssions. I have carefully reconsidered all of Westerbys submissions 
on this point - including its response to my provisional decision.  
 
The Register  
 
I am satisfied that, in order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have 
independently che cked and verified Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions before accepting 
business from it. I therefore consider it is fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have 
checked the Register entry for Joseph Oliver LDA in the circumstances. And, to be clear, I 
think it fair and reasonable to say that the checks Westerby ought to have conducted on 
Joseph Oliver LDAs Register entry should have included a review of all the relevant 
information available.  
 
I have carefully considered the format of the Register in or arou nd 2013 when Mr Ps 
application was submitted by Joseph Oliver LDA. The third -party report on the Register 
provided by Westerby during the investigation of the complaint which was the subject of the 
published decision is helpful on the question of the form at of the Register at the time of Mr 
Ps SIPP application. The report includes the following screenshot of the archived Register 
for Abana (dated 24 July 2013):   
 
Each of the re d titles at the top of the entry (i.e. Regulators, Basic details, Contact for  
complaints, etc) is a hyperlink to another page of the entry on the Register. I am satisfied the 
entry for Joseph Oliver LDA would have followed the same format. So, this screenshot 
shows that Joseph Oliver LDAs 2013 entry on the Register would have inclu ded both 
Permission and Passports pages (amongst other pages). It is therefore reasonable to 
conclude from the above screenshot that the format of the Register in or around the time  
Mr Ps SIPP application was submitted to Westerby in 2013 included pag es which provided 
information in relation to both a firms passport details and in relation to a firms permissions. 
And I note Westerby accepts Joseph Oliver LDAs entry would have included a permissions 
page at the relevant time.  
 
Westerbys position, in  short, is that the permissions page was blank and the register entry 
could not therefore be used to check a firms permissions.  
 
The report provided by Westerby on the complaint which was the subject of the published 
decision, helpfully, provides examples  of several Permission pages for other firms which 
were archived, dating from around the time of Mr Ps SIPP application or earlier. The below 
example, dating from 2012, and relating to a Cypriot firm which, like Joseph Oliver LDA, was 
an incoming EEA firm , is particularly helpful:  
 
 
 
This shows that the Permission page for this incoming EEA firm did exist in 2012, and that it 
showed  no matches found . This is strong evidence th at the format of the Register for EEA 
firms did include a page with information on a firms permissions, even if all it recorded is 
that no matches are found, (i.e. it had no permissions from the FCA). I note Westerby 
accepts that the entry for Joseph Ol iver LDA likely showed  no matches found  in the 
permission page of the Register entry at the relevant time.  
 
The third -party report also includes a screenshot of a 2013 Permission page for a UK firm 
which ceased to be authorised in 2008 (which also shows  no matches found ), and a page 
for a UK firm which was authorised and held FCA permissions at the relevant ti me, which 
shows the firms permissions set out in detail.  
 
All of this information taken together demonstrates that, when Mr Ps application was 
submitted to Westerby, the format of the Register did contain a page labelled Permission 
and this page is whe re a firms permissions would be set out on the Register. And, where a 
firm did not have any FCA permissions at the time of the search, the Permission page on 
their Register entry would state  no matches found  (as there were no permissions to 
display).  
 
This is consistent with the information we received from the FCA when we asked it to confirm 
whether top up permissions appear on the Register, and whether this has changed since 
2013. In response to our query, FCA confirmed that top up permissions do app ear on the 
Register under the Permission page, and that the FCA understands the same information 
was available on the Register in 2013.  
I note Westerby, in its later submissions (and in previous submissions), has said more 
information should be provided about this. In is response to my provisional decision it has 
reiterated this request. I have not been persuaded to depart from my provisio nal decision on 
this point.  
 
Westerby has been provided with FCAs response to our question. That is all I have been 
privy to and it is sufficient to allow Westerby to consider and make submissions on this point  
 something which it has done, at length. I am  therefore satisfied I can fairly determine this 
complaint now and Westerby does not need to be provided with further information on this 
point.  
 
I should also make the point that my decision on this complaint would be the same even if I 
were to disregard the information received from the FCA  as the FCAs response to our 
question simply confirms what is shown by the available evidence in this case.  
 
To summarise my conclusions so far, I remain satisfied:  
 
 That in order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have 
independently checked and verified Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions before 
accepting business from it. And it is fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have 
checked the totality of Joseph Oliver LDAs Register entry in the  circumst ances.  
 
 The format of the Register in 2013 did include a Permission page and it follows that 
the entry for Joseph Oliver LDA on the Register at the time of Mr Ps application 
would have included a Permission page which Westerby ought to have  checked.  
 
If Westerby did check the Permission page for Joseph Oliver LDA at the relevant time, it 
appears to have failed to have kept a record of this check and, unfortunately, I do not have a 
record of the Permission page for Joseph Oliver LDA at the relevant time . So we have no 
evidence of what specific information was available on this page for Joseph Oliver LDA at 
the relevant time. However, in light of the evidence Ive set out above, I am satisfied that 
there would have been a permission page available on Jose ph Oliver LDAs Register entry. 
And, if this page had erroneously failed to contain any information on whether or not Joseph 
Oliver LDA held the relevant permissions, (i.e. it had been left entirely blank), Westerby 
ought to have taken further steps to asc ertain what the correct position was.  
 
To be clear, I do not accept Westerbys submission that information about a firms 
permissions was simply not available for an online user in 2013.  
 
Westerby has, in previous submissions, referred to reports from the Complaints 
Commissioner both of which h ighlighted errors and/or weaknesses of the Register. In its 
latest submissions it says the Register is known to have historically had significant errors, 
and the FCA itself recognises that there can be errors on the Register  it refers to a 
disclaimer sho wn on the Register which says the FCA provided no warranty as to its 
accuracy. I have considered the submissions Westerby has made on this point.  Whilst I appreciate there have been criticisms of the Register, and it may on occasion have 
contained errors, I am satisfied that a regulated market participant such as Westerby, acting 
in accordance with its regulatory obligations, ought to have understood that Joseph Oliver 
LDA needed permission from the FCA to give advice on and make arrangements for 
personal pensions in the UK. Therefore, before accepting business from Joseph Oliver LDA, 
Westerby needed to confirm that Joseph Oliver LDA held the required permissions. And, for 
the reasons I have set out above, I am satisfied that Joseph Oliver LDA s entry on the 
Register at the relevant time would have included a page with information on its permissions. 
If this page had not set out any information (it had erroneously been left blank) Westerby, in 
accordance with its regulatory obligations, should n ot have accepted Mr Ps application from 
Joseph Oliver LDA before carrying out further enquiries to clarify the correct position on the 
firms permissions.  
 
On this point Westerby says that the FCA will not (and nor would it have at the relevant time) 
confirm details about a firm that are not available on the public register. It says the published 
decision concedes that information which was not available on the Register would not have 
been provided to Westerby.  
 
In its response to my provisional decision W esterby says it does not agree that Joseph 
Oliver LDA not holding the relevant top up permissions would be a matter of public record  
as the FCA was only able to confirm what was on the Register, not what was missing from it. 
However, I remain satisfied t hat whether a firm holds permissions with the FCA is a matter of 
public  record.  
 
I accept FCA will not (and would not) confirm details about a firm that are not available on 
the public register. However, for all the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied that top up 
permissions (or the absence of such permissions) are something which are recorded on the 
FCAs public register, and that this was also the case in 2013 when Westerby accepted Mr 
Ps application from Joseph Oliver LDA. So, although we do not hav e evidence of exactly 
what did appear on Joseph Oliver LDAs Permission page in 2013, if it had erroneously 
been left blank I think it is fair and reasonable to conclude the FCA would have been able to 
confirm the position that Joseph Oliver LDA did not  in fact  have the required 
permissions, as this was information that ought to have been publicly available, on the 
Register. So, I remain unpersuaded by Westerbys submissions on this point and I am 
satisfied contacting the FCA was a sensible and proper  route open to it to verify Joseph 
Oliver LDAs permissions before accepting business from it.  
 
So, if Westerby had thought it necessary to contact the FCA directly to confirm Joseph Oliver 
LDAs permissions because the Register did not contain the relevan t details, I do not think 
the restriction it refers to on what the FCA could confirm would have prevented it getting the 
information it needed. Joseph Oliver LDA did not have any top up permissions. That was a 
matter of public record. So, the FCA would hav e been able to confirm this to Westerby.  
 
To be clear, even if there was an issue with Joseph Oliver LDAs entry on the Register I still 
do not think it is fair and reasonable to conclude that it was appropriate  or in accordance 
with its regulatory oblig ations - for Westerby to have proceeded with Mr Ps application from 
Joseph Oliver LDA in those circumstances. Westerby ought to have independently checked 
and verified Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions before accepting business from it. If there 
was no info rmation available or accessible on the Register at the relevant time to reveal the 
permissions position of Joseph Oliver LDA, then Westerby ought to have either found 
another way to verify Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions, or it ought to have declined to 
accept any applications from Joseph Oliver LDA until such a time as it could verify the 
correct position on Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions.  Furthermore, if Westerby was simply unable to independently verify Joseph Oliver LDAs 
permissions at a ll  a position I think is very unlikely given the available evidence - I think it is 
fair and reasonable to say that Westerby should have then concluded that it was unsafe to 
proceed with accepting business from Joseph Oliver LDA in those circumstances. I n my 
opinion, it was not reasonable, and not in -line with Westerbys regulatory obligations, for it to 
proceed with accepting business from Joseph Oliver LDA if the position was not clear.  
 
So, to summarise, I remain satisfied:  
 
 It was not fair and reasonable for Westerby to proceed to accept business from 
Joseph Oliver LDA if, as Westerby says, it was unable to establish what permissions 
Joseph Oliver LDA  held.  
 
 In that case Westerby should have sought confirmation from the FCA as to whether 
Joseph Oliver LDA held any top up permissions. And, as I am satisfied this would 
have been a matter of public record, I am satisfied the FCA would have been able to 
confirm whether or not Joseph Oliver LD A held any  permissions.  
 
 Alternatively, if it was unable to independently verify Joseph Oliver LDAs 
permissions, Westerby should simply have declined to accept business from Joseph 
Oliver  LDA.  
 
Could Westerby have relied on what Joseph Oliver LDA told it?  
 
In its response to my provisional decision Westerby maintains it was reasonable for it to rely 
on what Joseph Oliver LDA told it. I have carefully reconsidered this point, but have not been 
persuaded to depart from my provisional findings. So, again, I h ave largely repeated my 
provisional findings  having taken into account the relevant points Westerby has made in its 
response to my provisional decision.  
 
Westerby says that it agreed Terms of Business with Joseph Oliver LDA (the Agreement) 
and, in sign ing the Agreement, Joseph Oliver LDA confirmed it held the permissions it 
required.  
 
Westerby, in previous submissions, has referred to FCAs thematic review TR16/1, and to 
Gen 4 Annex 1 of the FCA Handbook. These set out respectively that: firms can rely on 
factual information provided by other EEA -regulated firms as part of their due diligence 
process (TR/16/1, Para 5), and the statutory status disclosure incoming EEA firms are 
required to make.  
 
COBS 2.4.6R (2) provides a general rule about reliance on o thers:  
 
(2) A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook that requires it 
to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on information 
provided to it in writing by another person.  
 
And COBS 2.4.8 G says:  
 
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance with COBS 2.4.6R (2) ) for a firm to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or a professional 
firm, unless it is aware or ought reasonably to be aware of any fact that would give 
reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of that information.  So, it would generally be reasonable for Westerby to rely on information provided to it in 
writing by Joseph Oliver LDA, unless Westerby was aware or ought reasonably to have been 
aware of any fact that would give reasonable grounds to questi on the accuracy of the 
information.  
 
In the Agreement Joseph Oliver LDA warranted that it had the required permissions to 
introduce SIPPs business. However, the Agreement appears to be a generic document and 
not specific to Joseph Oliver LDA. It does not r efer to, nor require either party to confirm or 
warrant, the accuracy of information supplied during a prior due diligence process.  
 
The Agreement provides as follows:  
 
The Intermediary warrants that he/she is suitably authorised by the Financial Services  
Authority in relation to the sale of the SIPP, and advice on underlying investments where 
appropriate, and will maintain all authorisations, permissions, authorities, licences and skills 
necessary for it to carry out its activities under this contract and  will in all aspects comply 
with all Applicable Laws.  
 
In my view, this does not amount to a clear statement that Joseph Oliver LDA had the 
required top up permissions for it to advise on and arrange personal pensions in the UK that 
Westerby would be enti tled to rely on. Firstly, at the date of the Agreement, the FSA was no 
longer in existence, so the warranty that the intermediary (Joseph Oliver LDA) was 
authorised by the FSA was clearly incorrect and should have been a cause for concern.  
 
In addition, th e activity of advising on rights under personal pension schemes is not 
mentioned; rather, the authorisation is said to relate to  the sale of the SIPP  which is an 
ambiguous term. And the warranty that he/she is suitably authorised is generic and does 
not refer specifically to top up FCA permissions being required and Joseph Oliver LDA 
warranting that it has top up permissions to conduct personal pensions business in the UK.  
 
After carefully considering the terms of the Agreement I am not satisfied on the evidence 
provided that Westerby did establish what top up permissions Joseph Oliver LDA required to 
be arranging and giving advice on personal pensions in the UK and that it r equested, and 
received, confirmation from Joseph Oliver LDA that it held those permissions. I am also not 
satisfied, for the reasons given above, that Westerby met its regulatory obligations in 
seeking to rely on the terms of the Agreement to conclude that  Joseph Oliver LDA warranted 
it had the required top up  permissions.  
 
In any event, it is my view that Westerby should have done more to independently verify that 
Joseph Oliver LDA had the required top up permissions. If Westerby had carried out 
independen t checks on Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions as required by its regulatory 
obligations, it ought to have been privy to information which did not reconcile with what 
Joseph Oliver LDA had told it about its permissions. So, in failing to take this step, I thi nk it is 
fair and reasonable to conclude that Westerby did not do enough in order to establish 
whether or not Joseph Oliver LDA did have the permissions it required.  
 
So, for all the reasons Ive set out above, I do not think COBS 2.4.6R (2) applies to the  
Agreement the parties entered into. However, Ive also given careful thought to whether it, 
was reasonable for Westerby to rely on it generally. I note Westerby has referred, in 
previous submissions, to the FCAs thematic review TR16/1 and to Gen 4 Annex 1 of the 
FCA Handbook, and I have considered this question with those details in mind. However, I 
am not satisfied there was any other basis on which it was reasonable for Westerby to rely 
on the meetings and Agreement, for much the same reasons as I have given above in 
relation to COBS 2.4.6R (2).  As the 2009 Thematic Review report makes clear, good practice, consistent with a SIPP 
operators regulatory obligations under the Principles, included:  
 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise clients are 
authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate permissions to give the 
advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA 
website listing warning n otices.  
 
The 2009 report also makes it clear that a SIPP operator should have systems and controls 
which adequately safeguarded their clients interests. So, it was good practice to confirm a 
firm had the appropriate permissions and to do so in a way which  adequately safeguarded 
their clients interests. And I do not think simply asking the firm if it had the permissions or 
requiring it to sign something providing this confirmation was sufficient to meet this standard 
of good practice. This is a view Wester by itself appears to have shared at the time. It has 
told us it checked the Register. It has also told us its procedure was to check the Register 
every time a SIPP application is received from an introducer, and every time adviser fees are 
paid from the SI PP. It says that, in its view, this demonstrates good practice, as per the 
FSAs 2009 thematic review report. That is a view I  share.  
 
So Westerby should not have  and did not  rely solely on the Agreement. And, as 
mentioned above, for all the reasons I have given, I think Westerbys check of the Register 
ought to have led to the conclusion that Joseph Oliver LDA did not have the required top up 
permissions (i.e. if the information on Joseph Oliver LDAs Permission page had been 
correctly recorded), or in  the alternative, that the Register did not record the information on 
Joseph Oliver LDAs Permission page in order for Westerby to confirm the position one way 
or the other (for example, if the permission page had erroneously been left blank). This 
means t hat either Westerby ought to have become aware of information which did not 
reconcile with what Joseph Oliver LDA had told it about its permissions in the meetings and 
the Agreement, or that it was still under a regulatory obligation to undertake further e nquiries 
to independently check Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions, and by failing to do so, it did not 
meet the requirements it was under as a regulated SIPP operator.  
 
If the adviser was instead JOML?  
 
As noted at the outset, it is not actually clear which business Westerby accepted the 
application from here  Joseph Oliver LDA or JOML. As set out above, on the SIPP 
application form the name of the firm was simply given as  Joseph Oliver  and the E -Portfolio 
solutions application recorded the financial advic e firm as  Joseph Oliver Marketing Limited . 
 
In its response to my provisional decision Westerby says the decision in Adams v Options 
confirmed that whilst establishing a SIPP is a regulated activity (so needs to be done via an 
authorised firm) advice on the underlying assets is not. However, this overlooks the nature of 
the asset in question. In Adams the decision Westerby mentions was based on the 
underlying asset not being an investment specified in the Regulated Activities Order (RAO). 
In this case the investments were ones of a type specified in the RAO, so giving advice on 
them would amount to a regulated activity, irrespective of t he SIPP.  
 
So, if the advisor was JOML, it was engaged in regulated activities. And so it was breaching 
the General Prohibition, which prohibits unauthorised business from carrying out regulated 
activities. This is a fundament of financial services regulati on in the UK and, as such, I think 
it fair and reasonable for Westerby to have been aware of it. And I therefore think it is fair 
and reasonable to say Westerby should have refused to accept either the SIPP or 
investment application from JOML.  However, I have again only briefly covered this point as there is evidence to show 
.........................  was representing Joseph Oliver LDA at the time and Westerby says the 
provider of the E -Portfolio platform has confirmed its relationship was with J oseph Oliver 
LDA, not JOML. So I think the likely outcome, had Westerby either assumed the 
application(s) were advised on by JOML and rejected it/them on that basis, or have queried 
on the basis the application(s) had to be advised on by an authorised busi ness, would have 
been that the application(s) was/were then submitted through Joseph Oliver LDA. However, 
as I set out in the next section, I think the involvement of JOML should reasonably have 
been viewed as an anomalous feature.  
 
Anomalous features  
 
I remain of the view Westerby ought to have identified a risk of consumer detriment here. 
Mr P was taking advice on his pension from a business based in Portugal. That advice was 
to transfer from a conventional pension scheme with a large life assurance busin ess into a 
SIPP, and then to send the majority of the money transferred into the SIPP to investments 
based in Mauritius and/or the Cayman Islands. The investments involved were unusual,  and 
specialised. And the chances of them being suitable investments for a significant portion of a 
retail investors pension were very small. So, given the relevant factors, Westerby ought to 
have viewed the application from Mr P as carrying a significant risk  of consumer detriment. 
And it should have been aware that the role of the advisor was likely to be a very important 
one in the circumstances  emphasising the need for adequate due diligence to be carried 
out on Joseph Oliver LDA to independently ensure i t had the correct permissions to be 
giving advice on personal pensions in the  UK. 
 
I do not expect Westerby to have assessed the suitability of such a course of action for Mr P  
 and I accept it could not do that. But, in order to meet the obligations set by  the Principles 
(and COBS 2.1.1R), I think it ought to have recognised this as an unusual proposition, which 
carried a significant risk of consumer detriment. So, it ought to have taken particular care in 
its due diligence  it had to do so to treat Mr P f airly and act in his best  interests.  
Another feature of concern in this case is that the investment application  which Westerby 
signed - does not specify what investments are to be made on the E -Portfolio platform. And, 
as noted above, that application re fers to an unauthorised business - JOML. I note Westerby 
expressed the view in its response to my provisional decision that JOML was a branch of 
Joseph Oliver LDA but, as mentioned, I am not satisfied that was the case.  
 
I think these should reasonably hav e been viewed by Westerby as further risks of consumer 
detriment. And are therefore further reasons why it ought to have taken particular care in its 
due diligence, to treat Mr P fairly and act in his best interests.  
 
In any event, regardless of the points I have made above about anomalous features of the 
proposed business, I am of the view that Westerby ought to have properly checked Joseph 
Oliver LDAs permissions in order to comply with its regulatory obligations. I make the above 
point only to highlight the importance of carrying out this check.  
 
In conclusion  
 
I have not been persuaded to depart from the conclusion I reached in my provisional 
decision. To confirm, that is:  
 
Westerby ought to have identified that Jos eph Oliver LDA needed top up permissions to 
advise on and make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK, and taken all the steps 
available to it to independently verify that Joseph Oliver LDA had the required permissions.  If Westerby had taken these steps, it would have established Joseph Oliver LDA did not 
have the permissions it required to give advice or make arrangements for personal pensions 
in the UK, or that it was unable to confirm whether Joseph Oliver LDA had the required 
permiss ions.  
 
In either event, it was not in accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good industry 
practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Joseph Oliver LDA.  
 
Additionally, Westerby ought to have considered the anomalous features of this b usiness I 
have outlined above. These were further factors relevant to Westerbys acceptance of Mr Ps 
application which, at the very least, emphasised the need for adequate due diligence to be 
carried out on Joseph Oliver LDA to independently ensure it had  the correct permissions to 
be giving advice on personal pensions in the UK.  
 
It is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to conclude that none of the points 
Westerby has raised are factors which mitigate its decision to accept Mr Ps appli cation from 
Joseph Oliver LDA.  
 
I am therefore satisfied the fair and reasonable conclusion in this complaint is that Westerby 
should not have accepted Mr Ps SIPP application from Joseph Oliver LDA.  
 
Is it fair to ask Westerby to pay Mr P compensation in the circumstances?  
 
Would the business have still gone ahead if Westerby had refused the application?  
 
I am satisfied that if Westerby had refused to accept Mr Ps application from Joseph Oliver 
LDA, and explained to Mr P why it was not able to do so, Mr P would not have continued to 
accept or act on pensions advice provided by Joseph Oliver LDA (as he woul d then have 
been aware it was not able to provide such advice). And I think it very unlikely advice from 
an authorised business would have resulted in Mr P taking the same course of action. I think 
it reasonable to say Mr P would have sought out a business  with the required permissions 
and that business would have given suitable advice.  
 
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):  
 
The Claimant knew that it w as a high risk and speculative investment but nevertheless 
decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive..  
 
But, in this case, I have seen no evidence to show Mr P proceeded in the knowledge that the 
investment he was making was high risk and speculative, and that he was determined to 
move forward with the transaction in order to take advantage of a cash incentive offered by 
Joseph Oliver LDA.  
 
Instead, it appears Mr P understood the investment, via the SIPP, would offer a better return 
than hi s existing pension. Mrs P has told us Mr P was told to take out a Kijani SIPP as that 
would offer the best returns. There is no evidence to show Mr P understood he was making 
a high risk investment.  
 
Mr P was also not paid a cash incentive. It therefore cannot be said he was incentivised to 
enter into the transaction. I am satisfied that Mr P, unlike Mr Adams, was not eager to 
complete the transaction for reasons other than securing the best pension for himself. So, in 
my opinion, this case is very diff erent from that of Mr Adams.  In its response to my provisional decision Westerby says if it had rejected Mr Ps application, 
Joseph Oliver LDA would simply have re -applied on behalf of Mr P to another SIPP operator, 
which Joseph Oliver LDA wa s using, and that SIPP operator would have accepted the 
application.  
 
However, Mr P would still have had to be willing to do business with Joseph Oliver LDA after 
Westerby had rejected his application for another application to proceed. And, for the 
reason s given, I am not persuaded Mr P would have continued to accept or act on pensions 
advice provided by Joseph Oliver LDA in those circumstances.  
 
In the circumstances, I am satisfied it is fair and reasonable to conclude that if Westerby had 
refused to accept Mr Ps application from Joseph Oliver LDA, the transaction would not still 
have gone ahead.  
 
The involvement of Joseph Oliver LDA  
 
In its resp onse to my provisional decision Westerby has referred to Mr Ps complaint about 
Joseph Oliver LDA. It says the complaint against Joseph Oliver LDA ought to have been 
decided first or, at the very least, the complaints against it and Joseph Oliver LDA ought  to 
have been decided together.  
 
It points out we have upheld complaints against Abana where there was another SIPP 
operator involved but not pursued or invited the complainants to pursue complaints against 
the SIPP operator concerned. It adds that I shoul d consider the true gravity of the situation 
against Joseph Oliver LDA.  
 
I have carefully considered these points but remain of the view it is fair to require Westerby 
to compensate Mr P for the full measure of his loss.  
 
In this decision I am considering Mr Ps complaint about Westerby. While it may be the case 
that Joseph Oliver LDA gave unsuitable advice to Mr P to switch from his personal pension 
to a SIPP and make unsuitable investments, Westerby had its own distinct set of obligations 
when considering  whether to accept Mr Ps application for a SIPP.  
 
Joseph Oliver LDA had a responsibility not to conduct regulated business that went beyond 
the scope of its permissions. Westerby was not required to ensure Joseph Oliver LDA 
complied with that responsibili ty. But Westerby had its own distinct regulatory obligations 
under the Principles. And this included to check that firms introducing advised business to it 
had the regulatory permissions to be doing so. In my view, Westerby has failed to comply 
with these obligations in this case.  
 
I am satisfied that if Westerby had carried out sufficient due diligence on Joseph Oliver LDA, 
and acted in accordance with good practice and its regulatory obligations by independently 
checking Joseph Oliver LDAs permissions be fore accepting business from it, Westerby 
would not have done any SIPP business with Joseph Oliver LDA in the first place.  
 
I am also satisfied that if Mr P had been told Joseph Oliver LDA was acting outside its 
permissions in giving pensions advice, he wo uld not have continued to accept or act on 
advice from that business. And, having taken into account all the circumstances of this case, 
it is my view that it is fair and reasonable to hold Westerby responsible for its failure to 
identify that Joseph Olive r LDA did not have the required top up permissions to be giving 
advice and making arrangements on personal pensions in the UK.  
 
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount  as the ombudsman considers to be fair  compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation (DISP 
3.7.2R).  
 
As I set out above, in my opinion it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
hold Westerby accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory 
obligations and to treat Mr P fairly.  
 
The starting point therefore, is th at it would be fair to require Westerby to pay Mr P 
compensation for the loss he has suffered as a result of Westerbys failings. I have however 
carefully considered if there is any reason why it would not be fair to ask Westerby to 
compensate Mr P for his  loss, including whether it would be fair to hold another party liable 
in full or in part. And I consider it appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby to 
compensate Mr P to the full extent of the financial losses he has suffered due to Westerb ys 
failings.  
 
I accept that it may be the case that Joseph Oliver LDA, in advising Mr P to enter into a 
SIPP`, is responsible for initiating the course of action that led to Mr Ps loss. However, it is 
also the case that if Westerby had complied with its own distinct regulatory obligations as a 
SIPP operator, the arrangement for Mr P would not have come about in the first place, and 
the loss he suffered could have been avoided.  
 
In my provisional decision I noted that the document that sets out the terms o f business 
between Westerby and Joseph Oliver LDA includes a section where the intermediary - 
Joseph Oliver LDA - agreed to indemnify Westerby for any loss it may suffer as a result of 
the intermediary acting beyond its authority. So this gives Westerby a form of recourse if it 
thinks Joseph Oliver LDA has breached the terms of this agreement. And I said that, in 
addition, Westerby can have the option to take an assignment of any rights of action Mr P 
has against Joseph Oliver LDA before compensation is pai d. 
 
Westerby says its investigations into the financial health of Joseph Oliver LDA indicate there 
to be very low prospects of recovery from Joseph Oliver LDA. And so in its view any 
indemnity from Joseph Oliver LDA and/or assignment of rights to any actio n against it from 
Mr P is effectively worthless.  
 
I accept that may be true and the financial standing of Joseph Oliver LDA may not be 
healthy. However, the key point here is that but for Westerbys failings, Mr P would not have 
suffered the loss of his pe nsion. As a result, the financial standing of Joseph Oliver LDA and 
the fact that Westerby may not be able to rely on the terms of business to seek recovery 
under it does not persuade me to change my overall view. On that basis, it is fair in all the 
circu mstances to require Westerby to pay compensation for the full measure of Mr Ps loss, 
notwithstanding any failings by Joseph Oliver LDA.  
 
Westerby has also referred to a decision I made against an EEA based business, about 
SIPP advice. The circumstances of  that complaint are very different. In that decision, I found 
that the business should compensate the consumer for half the loss they had suffered, in 
circumstances where the SIPP operator had already paid compensation for half the loss.  
That is not the ca se here.  
 
As Ive highlighted above, I have to decide what amounts to fair compensation and the fact 
that I have found that Westerbys failings has led to the entirety of Mr Ps loss means that I 
consider it fair that Westerby should compensate Mr P to the  full extent of that loss. I do not 
therefore think my findings here are inconsistent with the approach taken to that particular 
complaint, which in any event related to an entirely different set of facts and circumstances.  I want to again make clear that I have carefully taken everything Westerby has said into 
consideration. It is my view that it is appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby 
to compensate Mr P to the full extent of the financial losses he has suf fered due to 
Westerbys failings. And, taking into account the combination of factors Ive set out above, I 
am not persuaded that it would be appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the 
compensation amount that Westerby should pay to Mr P.  
 
Opportunity to mitigate losses  
 
I have carefully reconsidered this point but remain of the view that it would not be fair for any 
reduction to be made to fair compensation on the basis of a failure by Mr P to mitigate his 
loss. 
 
In its response to my provision al decision Westerby says it is clear that Mr and Mrs P were 
distrustful of ........ ...........  before Westerby wrote to them in November 2014. And it points 
out that my decision also confirms that  various people  were raising alarms over the Kijani 
investment. W esterby also says it was open to Mrs P to contact it to try to get a better 
understanding of the situation, and it is not clear why Mr and Mrs P were content with 
..................  word that the letters sent to Mr P were  scaremongering . It says the concerns 
about the investments would have led an unsophisticated investor to make some reasonable 
lines of enquiries, regardless of .......................  advice.  
 
Although Mr and Mrs P were clearly dissatisfied with the service ....................  had offered, 
after the SIPP had b een established and the investments made, I think it reasonable to say 
they trusted him at the time of the initial advice, as they accepted that advice. And being 
dissatisfied with the service later provided is not the same as distrust. So I do not think i t 
reasonable to say Mr and Mrs P were clearly distrustful of ...................... . 
 
In any event, I remain of the view that the key point here is that Westerby  strongly urged  
Mr P to contact his  regulated financial advisor  in its letters. At the time of the Nov ember 
2014 letter, the  regulated financial advisor was .................... , by that time working for 
Abana rather than Joseph Oliver LDA. So I think it was reasonable for Mr P (or Mrs P on his 
behalf) to take the action Westerby had  strongly urged  him to take i.e. to seek advice from 
..................... her. Mr P did this, and was advised to keep the investments. In these 
circumstances, I remain of the view that it is not fair to say Mr P ought to have acted 
differently. So I remain of the view it is not fair to say Mr P s hould have made a redemption 
request when Westerby wrote to him in November  2014.  
 
I also remain of the view that Westerby did not act in accordance with its regulatory 
obligations in sending this letter. On the complaints about introductions from Abana, 
Westerby says its process was to check an advisory firms permissions every time it 
received an application to open a SIPP, and every time an advisors renumeration was to be 
paid. So, by the time Westerby wrote to Mr P in November 2014, it would have had m any 
opportunities to discover that Abana did not have the top up permissions it needed to give 
advice or make arrangements on personal pensions in the UK.  
 
For Westerby to have suggested that Mr P seek advice from Abana once problems with the 
funds he had invested in had come to light, is a further failing of its regulatory obligations and 
the requirement to treat Mr P fairly. In fact, it should have alerted Mr P to the fact that Abana 
did not have the required permissions and have suggested he seek indepen dent advice from 
a regulated advisor with the required permissions as a matter of urgency.  By the time of the June and July 2015 letters to Mr P from Westerby, Abana FS  a UK 
based firm authorised by the FCA, had replaced Abana. I note Weste rby concludes in the 
July 2015 letter that Abana FS Ltd was not sufficiently independent (I assume because of its 
links to Abana). And it recommends Mr P seek advice from an advisor authorised by the 
Financial Conduct Authority. I remain of the view that w as a fair and reasonable step to take 
in the circumstances, which goes some way towards correcting Westerbys earlier failure to 
meet its regulatory obligations by referring Mr P back to Abana. However, Mr P was 
diagnosed with leukaemia in May 2015 and dec lared to be terminally ill. He was receiving 
treatment at the time of these letters. And, whilst I appreciate Westerby may not have been 
aware of Mr Ps illness, I remain of the view it is not fair to say he should have taken any 
action on receipt of the l etters, given the circumstances.  
 
Ive not seen sufficient evidence to conclude that Mr Ps health had sufficiently improved to 
deal with correspondence by the end of 2015. So I also remain of the view it is not fair to say 
he should have taken any action on receipt of the December 2015 le tter either, given the 
circumstances.  
 
Westerby says, in its response to the provisional decision, that in the complaint which was 
the subject of the published final decision the complainant was able to redeem his funds in 
May 2016. On this basis it says i t is likely that Mr P could have mitigated his losses with a 
timely redemption request. Given what I say above, I think this is a secondary point as my 
view remains that it is not fair to say Mr P should have taken any action (save for seeking the 
advice f rom .......................  which he was  strongly urged  to seek in November 2014), 
following the receipt of the letters. However, for completeness, I have considered this point 
again. And I remain of the view, notwithstanding my above finding, that it is unlikely a 
redemption request would have been successful, in any event.  
 
In relation to the Kijani fund, liquidators were appointed on 19 June 2015. Westerbys June 
2015 letter notes that some investors had, at that time, made redemption requests over 90 
days ago but  not received any money. And I note that in the complaint which was the subject 
of the published decision Westerby summarised the situation with the Kijani fund in October 
2015 as  suspended, in liquidation. Likely to take a number of years. Unclear as to what will 
come back.  
 
So I think there is insufficient evidence to show any redemption request made in relation to 
the Kijani fund after issues with the fund were first highlighted in late 2014 would have been 
successful.  
 
In my provisional decision I not ed Westerbys December 2015 letter  which shows the 
SAMAIF was suspended at that time - is somewhat contradictory as it says the suspension 
of SAMAIF has been lifted but then says that the lift of the suspension is not yet active (i.e. 
it is still suspe nded).  
 
I further note the 24 April 2016 update from SAMAIF suggests work to begin trading is still 
ongoing. And I also again note that in June 2016 Westerby said:  
 
The SAMAIF is also currently not trading. It is our understanding that they are currently i n 
communication with the Mauritian regulators in order to enable redemptions from the fund, 
however there are no definitive timescales as yet. A copy of their latest update is enclosed.  
 
Which suggests SAMAIF was still suspended at this time. So I have als o not seen sufficient 
evidence to show a redemption request made in relation to the SAMAIF would have been 
successful either  it seems the SAMAIF was suspended for a considerable period of time, 
and it is not clear if that suspension was ever lifted.  This is consistent with the published decision, which notes the amount paid to the SIPP in 
that case likely came from another investment rather than the Kijani or SAMAIF funds, as 
both appeared to have been suspended over the relevant period in that case.  
 
Putting things right  
 
My aim is to return Mr P to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Westerbys failure to verify that Joseph Oliver LDA had the correct permissions to be 
providing advice on pensions in the UK before accepting Mr Ps SIPP application from it.  
 
If Mr P had sought advice from a different advisor I think its more likely than not that the 
advice would have been to stay in his existing pension. I think it is unlikely that another 
advisor, acting properly, would have advised Mr P to transfe r away from his existing pension.  
 
In light of the above, Westerby should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current 
position to the position Mr P would be in if he had not transferred from his existing pension. 
In summary, Westerby should:  
 
1. Calculate the loss Mr P has suffered as a result of making the  transfer.  
 
2. Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Ps share in any investments that cannot currently 
be redeemed.  
 
3. Pay an amount into Mr Ps SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the 
loss calculated in (1). This payment should take account of any available tax relief 
and the effect of charges. It should also take account of interest as set out  below.  
 
In my provisional decision I said Westerby should have the option of payment of this redr ess 
being contingent upon Mr P assigning any claim he may have against Joseph Oliver LDA, to 
Westerby. The terms of the assignment should require Westerby to account to Mr P for any 
amount it subsequently recovers against Joseph Oliver LDA that exceeds the  loss paid to 
Mr P. I note Westerby considers such an assignment to likely be worthless. But I think it fair 
to leave this option available to Westerby, if it wishes to take it  so Mr P should provide an 
assignment, if Westerby requests  it. 
 
I have explained how Westerby should carry out the calculation set out at 1 -3 above in 
further detail below:  
 
Calculate the loss Mr P has suffered as a result of making the transfer  
 
To do this, Westerby should work out the likely value of Mr Ps pension as at the date of this 
decision, had he left it where it was instead of transferring to the SIPP.  
 
Westerby should ask Mr P's former pension provider to calculate the current notional 
transfer value had he not transferred his pension. If there are any difficulties in obtaining a 
notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index should be 
used to calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy f or the type of return that 
could have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen.  
 
The calculation should take account of the value of any cash held in the SIPP currently. Any 
existing value of the investment should be covered by the next step.  
 
Pay a  commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed.  The SIPP only exists because of the investments made in 2013. In order for the SIPP to be 
closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, any remaining investments nee d to be 
removed from the SIPP.  
 
To do this Westerby should reach an amount it is willing to accept as a commercial value for 
the investments, and pay this sum into the SIPP and take ownership of the relevant 
investments.  
 
If Westerby is unwilling or unable  to purchase the investments the value of them should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation.  
 
Westerby may ask Mr P to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any 
payment the SIPP may receive from the investmen ts. That undertaking should allow for the 
effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr P may receive from the investments and any 
eventual sums he would be able to access from the SIPP. Westerby will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.  
 
Pay an amount into Mr Ps SIPP so that the transfer value is increased to equal the loss 
calculated in (1).  
 
I am not certain whether, currently, Mr P can pay the redress into a pension plan. If he can, 
and assuming his doing so wouldnt give rise to any allowance or protection issues, the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for the income tax reli ef Mr P could 
claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ps marginal rate of tax. For 
example, if Mr P is a basic rate taxpayer, the total amount should be reduced by 20%.  
 
On the other hand, Mr P may not currently be able to pay the redr ess into a pension plan. 
But had it been possible to pay the compensation into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount to be paid to Mr P should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise ha ve been paid. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using Mr Ps marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, 
if Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate 
to a reduction in the total amount equi valent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr P 
would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied 
to 75% of the total  amount.  
 
SIPP fees  
 
If the investments cant be removed from the SIPP, and it hence can not be closed after 
compensation has been paid, Westerby should pay Mr P an amount equivalent to five years 
of future fees, to ensure its unlikely Mr P will have to pay further fees for holding the SIPP. 
Five years should allow enough time for the issues with the investments to be dealt with, and 
for them to be removed from the SIPP. As an alternative to this, Westerby can agree to 
waive any future fees which might be payable by Mr Ps  SIPP.  
 
interest  
 
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment m ust be paid to Mr P or into his SIPP 
within 28 days of the date Westerby receives notification of his acceptance of my decision. 
Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my decision to the date of  settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 
days.  My final decision  
 
For the reasons given, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint. Westerby Trustee 
Services Limited should calculate and pay compensation as set out above.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.  
 
 
John Pattinson  
Ombudsman  