DRN-1600522
 
Complaint
Mrs C complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the PPI was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) have taken 
responsibility for this sale and so the complaint has been set up against AXA.
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to AXA during this decision.
Background
Mrs C took out a store card in 2003. She was sold the PPI in connection with this card at the 
same time.
Our adjudicator thought that Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld because Mrs C told us she 
suffered from a pre-existing medical condition at the time of the sale. As the policy had 
exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions our adjudicator thought that if this had 
been drawn to Mrs Cs attention then she wouldnt have taken the policy out. He also 
thought that the complaint should be upheld as Mrs C was working less than 16 hours a 
week.
AXA didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Although AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C (so they didnt have to take adequate 
steps to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mrs C) they still had to provide Mrs C with clear 
information about the policy so that she could make an informed decision about whether or 
not to take the policy out. In particular, this included drawing Mrs Cs attention to the main 
exclusions and restrictions in the policy at the time of the sale so that she could consider 
whether or not she was affected by them.
Ive looked at the documents from the time of the sale and I cant see that at the time when 
Mrs C was asked to make a selection for PPI that these exclusions or restrictions were 
drawn to her attention. When she completed the form there was no reference to where she 
could find these exclusions. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest that the representative at 
the time of the sale would have been instructed to highlight these terms.Mrs C has told us that she suffered from a medical condition at the time of the sale and had 
suffered from it since 1997. She was on medication for it and had also taken time off work 
because of this condition.
The policy wouldnt have paid out if Mrs C was off work sick because of this condition. I think 
that knowing that she was suffering from this condition and that this condition was excluded 
under the policy would likely have affected her decision. I think that if Mrs Cs attention had 
been drawn to the exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions as it should have 
been then she wouldnt have taken the policy out. This is because it wouldnt have provided 
good value for money in her circumstances.
So I think Mrs C was mis-sold this PPI policy.
I appreciate that the adjudicator also said the complaint should be upheld because they 
thought Mrs C was working under 16 hours a week, but as I have upheld the complaint for a 
different reason anyway, I dont need to now go on and consider this aspect of the sale.
Fair compensation
AXA should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
 
A. AXA should find out how much Mrs C would owe on her store card if the policy hadnt 
been added to it.
 
           So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on      
          those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-        
          sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
 
          AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs C owes and what she            
       would have owed.
 
   If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got  
   for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 
B. If  when AXA works out what Mrs C would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs C paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs C paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs C wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate 
should be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
 
C. AXA should tell Mrs C what its done to work out A and B.
  HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
  Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint against AXA France IARD and require them to pay Mrs C the 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman