DRN-4036657
Complaint
Mr M has complained that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) unfairly increased the limit on his 
overdraft when he was already struggling to repay what he owed.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ms complaint and thought that Monzo shouldnt have 
increased Mr Ms overdraft limit as his overdraft had already become unsustainable for him 
by March 2020. So it needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to             
Mr Ms overdraft from this point. Monzo disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monzo will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and industry codes of practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Monzo acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from March 2020. While Mr M 
might not have got in touch to confirm this, nonetheless by this point, it was evident Mr Ms 
overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for him. 
A cursory look at his statements leading up to this period shows that Mr M had been 
hardcore borrowing for an extended period. And the transactions taking place on Mr Ms 
account indicated that there was little prospect of him being able to repay what he owed 
without undue difficulty or borrowing further.
So I think that by March 2020 Monzo should have stopped providing the overdraft on the 
same terms and treated Mr M with forbearance, rather than increasing the limit on the 
overdraft. As Monzo didnt react to Mr Ms account usage and instead increased Mr Ms 
overdraft limit without having regard to his account activity, I think it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. 
Mr M ended up paying increased interest, fees and charges at a time when his overdraft was 
already unsustainable. So Im satisfied that Mr M lost out because of what Monzo did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Monzo needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint for Monzo to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ms current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from March 2020 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Monzo should contact Mr M to arrange a suitable repayment plan,     
Mr M is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Monzo to reach a 
suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Mr Ms credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in March 
2020. Monzo can also reduce Mr Ms overdraft limit by the amount of any refund 
if it considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave him over 
his limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr M along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Monzo 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file. Monzo can also 
reduce Mr Ms overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate 
to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Monzo to take off tax from this interest. Monzo must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman