DRN-4060374
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc has incorrectly recorded a default on his 
credit file. 
What happened
Mr T has said he discovered that there had been a default recorded on his credit file in 
January 2023 in a meeting with his mortgage advisor. Mr T says that due to him being on 
minimum hours at work he didnt have enough money to pay his credit card bill. As such, 
Sainsbury's agreed to a payment plan of £50.00 per month.
Unfortunately, Mr T didnt meet the terms of the payment plan as he missed a payment in 
September 2020. Mr T reached out to StepChange and was able to pay the credit card off 
and the account was closed. 
Mr T says once he was made aware of the default (in January 2023) he contacted 
Sainsburys Bank. He said he never received the default letter or arrears letters. As such, he 
feels the default has been recorded incorrectly. So, he would like the default to be removed 
from his credit file.
Sainsburys looked into Mr T complaint and concluded that the default had been applied 
correctly. It said that Mr T had opened the account in December 2018. However, Mr T 
stopped making regular payment as such Sainsburys wrote to him detailing notifying him of 
the arrears. Mr T contacted Sainsburys in December 2019 and advised he had an issue with 
his bank, which is why he had missed payments. However, in March 2020 he called 
Sainsburys Bank and explained he was experiencing financial difficulty. Sainsburys say it 
applied breathing space which meant he wasnt required to make payments for 30 days and 
wouldnt apply further fees and charges. It says the breathing space period was extended on 
two occasions.
Sainsburys went on to say, at the end of these extensions it encouraged Mr T to seek 
independent financial advice. And between February 2020 to October 2020 payments were 
only received in two months, totalling £100.00. As Mr T wasnt meeting the minimum 
required payment to bring the account up to date, it wrote to him to explain it intended to 
default. Sainsburys say Mr T called to discuss the issues and was told he needed to clear 
the arrears to stop the default or arrange a suitable plan that would clear the arrears. It 
defaulted the account after sending notice stating it needed a payment of £629.33 by 5 
October 2020 or it would be defaulted.
So, Sainsburys Bank didnt agree that it made an error. It said as a responsible lender, it 
has a responsibility to take steps to stop a customers debt increasing and defaulting the 
account does this. It felt it had complied with the section 88 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
and acted positively and sympathetically to Mr Ts circumstances. It said, as Mr Ts arrears 
were pre-dated Covid19 he wasnt eligible for a payment holiday.
Mr T remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr T remained unhappy and asked 
for the complaint to be referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators outcome for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why.
I have reviewed the Terms and Conditions of the account which state:
Firstly, Mr T has said that he doesnt believe that the letter Sainsburys Bank issued on 7 
September 2020 constitutes a default notice. Sainsburys Bank are satisfied it meets the 
requirements of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and from the evidence provided I am minded 
to agree, it outlines the alleged breach, the action which is required to remedy the breach 
and by what date this action is to be completed.
Mr T originally stated he hadnt received the letter date 7 September 2020 or the arrears 
letters (pre notice of default). Sainsburys Bank have provided copies of the letters which 
were sent to Mr T and the address on these letters correlates with the address Mr T has 
provided our service with. 
I have also reviewed the contact notes provided by Sainsburys Bank, I can see on 28 
August 2020, Mr T contacted Sainsburys Bank to advise he had received a pre notice of 
default letter and as he could only afford to pay £50 his account would be defaulted. On 14 
October 2020 further notes show that Mr T was aware the account had been defaulted and 
he was liaising with StepChange. Therefore, while I appreciate Mr T has said he was 
unaware of his position as he hadnt received the letters, I dont agree. I say this because Mr 
T initiated contact with Sainsburys Bank after receiving one of those letters. And when 
considering the events which followed, (Mr T making contact with StepChange and 
arranging lower monthly repayments) on balance I am satisfied he was aware of the 
circumstances at that time.
I have also considered the arrears on Mr Ts account. Mr T had been in arrears since 
January 2020. We would expect a business to register a default if no payments had been 
made for at least 3 months payments, which is what had happened here. And as a 
responsible lender, Sainsburys Bank has a duty to ensure it records accurate information to 
credit reference agencies. 
I appreciate Mr T has said he was in arrears due to the difficult circumstances he faced at 
that time. But given that Sainsburys Bank had agreed to breathing space for 30 days where 
fees and charges were suspended, extended this on three occasions and asked Mr T to 
contact it to arrange a suitable repayment plan, I am satisfied it acted positively and 
sympathetically to his circumstances. And while we would expect a business to do this, it 
wouldnt necessarily stop them applying a default when an account had been in arrears for 
three months or more. As responsible lenders need to report accurate information to credit 
reference agencies.
So, with the above in mind, it follows that I wont be asking Sainsburys Bank to do anything 
further.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman