DRN-3833239
The complaint
Mr B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) rejected his claim 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In 2018 Mr B paid for the supply and installation of a new bathroom suite and paid using his 
AESEL credit card.
Mr B subsequently experienced issues with both the products and the installation. He tried to 
resolve matters with the supplier, but it had gone into administration. Mr B therefore engaged 
a plumber to carry out repair and replacement works.
Mr B contacted AESEL to raise a Section 75 claim. He sought reimbursement of the cost of 
repairs.
AESEL rejected the claim. It said (amongst other things) that Mr B hadnt provided an 
independent report/survey showing that there were faults with the original installation.
Mr B remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt any evidence to persuade 
him that the damage to the bathroom was as a result of a manufacturing fault or poor 
installation.
Mr B didnt agree. He didnt think AESEL had acted fairly in rejecting the Section 75 claim on 
the basis that there was no independent inspection. Mr B said the nature of the damage to 
the floor was of itself indicative of a fault in the materials or the installation. Mr B said he 
didnt think hed acted unreasonably by arranging for the damage to be promptly repaired 
because the alternative was to use a bathroom which was unsafe. Mr B said he felt that the 
photographic evidence of the damage hed supplied was enough to show that the bathroom 
was faulty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In appreciate that Mr B spent a significant amount t of money on the bathroom at the point of 
purchase and hes had to spend further money on repairs. I understand why he seeks 
reimbursement of the repair costs. However, that said, I dont think AESEL rejected the 
Section 75 claim unfairly. Ill explain why.
For a claim under Section 75 to be successful, there has to be either a breach of contract or 
a misrepresentation. Mr B hasnt said that theres been a misrepresentation, so Ill focus on 
whether theres been a breach of contract.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and that services need to be 
supplied with reasonable care and skill.
Ive taken account of everything Mr B has said about the bathroom and Ive had regard to all 
of the evidence hes supplied including the photos. I agree that theres damage to the 
bathroom. And Im aware that Mr B has had to arrange for repairs to be carried out.
In order to show that theres been a  breach of contract, Mr B needs to provide evidence to 
prove that the damage to the bathroom has arisen because of a fault with the goods (i.e. the 
goods which comprise the bathroom not being of satisfactory quality) or because of poor 
installation (i.e. the service of installation not being supplied with reasonable care and skill).
The evidence provided by Mr B shows that there is damage to the bathroom, but it doesnt 
establish the cause of the damage.
Generally, the way in which a breach of contract is proved in circumstances like this is to 
obtain an independent inspection report which identifies the damage and provides a 
professional opinion on whether the cause of the damage is a manufacturing fault ,or as a 
result of poor workmanship/defective installation.
Without such a report, there isnt enough evidence for me to conclude that theres been 
breach of contract here.
I understand the reason why Mr B felt that it was necessary to arrange for repairs to the 
bathroom. Im not saying that he acted unreasonably in doing so. However, I dont think the 
repairs wouldve been delayed significantly if Mr B had arranged for an independent 
inspection to take place prior to commencing repairs. 
Theres no benefit in obtaining an independent report now, because repairs have been 
completed. Mr B has offered to obtain a report from the plumber who carried out the repair. 
However, I wouldnt be able to treat such a report as being independent, and as a result, I 
wouldnt be able to attach very much evidential weight to it.
Mr B has said that he thinks this service should publish guidance for consumers to help them 
meet the requirements of proving a breach of contract. This isnt something that this service 
is able to do, although there is more general guidance available on our website.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman