DRN-3154345
The complaint
Mr C and Miss B have complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold them a 
Tech and Travel pack in 2017. Mr C and Miss B says the packs were added to their account 
without their consent.
What happened
Our adjudicators have looked into this already and they did not believe that Barclays acted 
incorrectly when the packs were added to Mr C and Miss Bs account. Mr C and Miss B did 
not agree with this and therefore this complaint was referred to me to issue a decision. This 
decision only relates to the Tech and Travel packs added to Mr C and Miss Bs account in 
2017.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should highlight that the Tech and Travel packs were not sold to Mr C and Miss B. 
What actually happened was that Mr C and Miss B had held a fee-paying Additions Active 
account for a number of years. In 2017 Barclays decided to change the products it offered 
and withdrew the Additions Active account. Barclays replaced the Additions Active account 
with a fee-free current account that included Tech and Travel packs. This was to ensure that 
account holders were able to continue to receive similar insurance benefits that the Additions 
Active account provided. Barclays did however give all account holders the option to opt out 
of adding one or both of the packs to the account, if they no longer needed the insurance 
benefits that they provided. 
This means that Barclays did not need formal consent to for the packs to be added, as they 
were in essence essentially a change to the structure of the benefits that previously came 
with the Additions Active account, rather than a sale of a totally new product. I say this 
because previously Mr C and Miss B had an account that came with benefits whereas after 
the change, they had an account that had additional packs added that came with similar 
benefits. 
Barclays was entitled to make these changes. However, when taking these actions Barclays 
needed to notify its customers in good time and explain the changes clearly and explain 
what options its customers had. 
Barclays has provided a copy of a letter it sent to Mr C and Miss B before it changed their 
account in September 2016. I note that the letter was personally addressed to Mr C and 
Miss B at the address it held for them at the time. The letter gave Mr C and Miss B 
information on the upcoming changes that would be happening on their account. The second 
page of the letter gave several options, including opting out of the change and choosing to 
have a fee-free account without the packs instead. It gave Mr C and Miss B the option of 
calling to make this change, or visiting a Barclays branch to do so
Given this, I think that Barclays did enough to highlight that Mr C and Miss Bs account was 
changing from an Additions Active account to a-fee free current account that came with a 
Tech and Travel pack. And that it highlighted to Mr C and Miss B that they could opt out of 
having this pack, if they wished to do so. I also think that Barclays had given Mr C and Miss 
B a reasonable amount of time to consider the changes being made to the account, before 
they came into effect. 
I cant see that Mr C or Miss B contacted Barclays to either opt out of the change or query it. 
So, I cant say that Barclays did anything wrong in relation to the changes that happened on 
the account, or that it needs to refund the fees Mr C and Miss B paid for the Tech and Travel 
packs since they were added to their account.
I note that Mr C and Miss B may not have used the benefits that the Tech and Travel packs 
came with and I accept its possible that they may not have read the letters that Barclays had 
sent to them. But in this instance, this was not an actual sale, but a migration from an 
existing account (the sale of which is not being dealt with as part of this complaint) to 
another account that included similar benefits for a similar price.  And given that Barclays did 
send out notification of the changes in good time before they occurred, I cant say that 
Barclays did not do what it needed to do or has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this matter. 
Because of this, Im not able to find in Mr C and Miss Bs favour. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman