DRN-4118957
The complaint
Mr C complains that Black Horse Limited  (Black Horse) delayed selling his car under a 
voluntary termination (VT) agreement. He would like a refund of the money achieved from 
the sale of his car, adverse information removed from his credit file and compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
As I understand it the initial delay in proceeding to collect Mr Cs car was due to Mr C 
not receiving the forms he needed to sign and return to authorise collection as these 
were sent to an old address.
From the call notes it seems further delay resulted as Mr C had not obtained the V5 
registration document needed for the car to be collected and didnt want to send the 
VT instruction without which the VT couldnt proceed. Mr C seems to have been 
reluctant, on a number of occasions, to provide the signed VT instruction. I dont 
know why this was but as it seems he didnt I dont think Black Horse can be held 
responsible for any further delay in collecting the car.
Black Horse apologised for the inconvenience of sending the initial forms to the 
wrong address. It also agreed to honour the original VT quote it gave Mr C reducing 
this amount by £143 to reflect any distress or inconvenience caused. I think this was 
a reasonable response in the circumstances.
Under the terms of the agreement Mr C signed if he chose to end his agreement 
early he was liable for any overdue payments. Its this sum  less the reduction Black 
Horse made for distress and inconvenience that Black Horse are seeking. The sale 
price achieved at auction is not relevant as under the Hire Purchase Agreement 
Black Horse owned the car not Mr C. I cant reasonably ask Black Horse to write off 
the amount owing  as Mr C was liable to make the monthly payments for the car.
I appreciate Mr C has told us the information relating to this agreement on his credit 
file has negatively impacted on him. I cant be sure that any such  impact is solely 
due to the information Black Horse put on Mr Cs credit file. But I have no information 
to suggest that the credit information  reported was inaccurate. Its important that 
credit files accurately record account history so I cant reasonably ask Black Horse to 
change Mr Cs credit file.
Finally, I dont feel I have any grounds to ask Black Horse to compensate Mr C. It has 
already reduced the amount Mr C owes for the inconvenience of sending the VT 
forms to his previous address. Other than that, I cant see that Black Horse has done 
anything that would merit further compensation.
.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman