DRN-4285269
The complaint
Ms B complains about a chargeback claim she made through Santander UK Plc, who Ill call 
Santander.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms B, but I dont currently agree with the investigators view of this 
complaint and Im expecting to uphold it.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as was the case 
here, it might be possible to make a chargeback claim. The chargeback scheme isnt 
administered by Santander, its the scheme administrators that set the rules. Santander 
didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good practice for them to do so 
where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
When Ms B raised her chargeback claim in October 2022 she complained that the wedding 
dress was the wrong size. The merchant defended that claim and explained that dresses 
were ordered to standard sizes and then adjusted by their seamstress. They provided a copy 
of their terms and conditions in which that was explained. As Ms Bs daughter hadnt been to 
see the seamstress to have the dress adjusted I dont think Santander were wrong not to 
pursue the chargeback to arbitration when it was rejected by the scheme administrators. 
There would seem little chance of success given the merchants defence.
Ms B subsequently challenged the decision and raised new issues about the dress 
potentially being a fake, and about it not being the same as the one her daughter had tried 
on when the order was made. I dont think its likely that Santander would have been able to 
raise a successful new chargeback claim as chargeback schemes dont usually allow a 
further claim. The first claim was issued on the basis the goods were not as described or 
defective, and that would still appear to be the basis of a further claim if one was made.
But, even if Santander had issued a further claim or if they had taken the first to arbitration 
and expanded it to cover the quality of the dress, I dont think the claim would have been 
successful. The photographs Ms B had attached to support her claim would, in my opinion, 
not have been sufficient to justify it.
It's for those reasons that I dont think Santander have been unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman