DRN-4314473
The complaint
Mr B says Revolut Ltd (Revolut), didnt do enough to help when he fell victim to an 
investment scam and then recovery scam. He says Revolut should reimburse him for the 
money he lost.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below. 
In summary, Mr B fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam and then, in an attempt to 
recoup his losses, Mr B subsequently fell victim to a recovery scam.
Mr B made the following payments as a result of the scams:
Date Scam Type of transfer Amount
14/03/2022 Scam 1 Faster payment to own cryptocurrency account £3,000
17/03/2022 Scam 1 Faster payment to own cryptocurrency account £2,000
11/05/2022 Scam 1 Faster payment to own cryptocurrency account £1,000
03/08/2022 Scam 2 Faster payment to own cryptocurrency account £1,500
03/08/2022 Scam 2 Faster payment to own cryptocurrency account £1,003
Mr B fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam (Scam 1). Mr B thought he was dealing 
with a legitimate company. Unfortunately Mr B had in fact been duped by fraudsters. Mr B 
set up a Revolut account to facilitate transfers to a cryptocurrency account that was also set 
up in Mr Bs name and which he had access to. Mr B made payments from another account 
he held with another banking provider into his Revolut account and then made payments 
from his Revolut account to his cryptocurrency account. And then from there, on to what he 
thought was a company that would invest for him. Later on, Mr B had difficulty obtaining any 
funds / profits. Ultimately Mr B uncovered that he had fallen victim to a scam. 
Subsequently, later on in trying to recoup his losses, Mr B then fell victim to a recovery scam 
(Scam 2). Mr B was put in contact with someone whom he believed worked for the 
Financial Conduct Authority who in turn put him touch with a solicitor. Sadly Mr B made a 
further two payments through the same channels in an attempt to recover his funds.
In November 2022, Mr B reported the matter to Revolut to see if his funds could be 
reimbursed or recovered. Revolut didnt consider it was liable for the losses Mr B incurred 
and as the payments had gone to the cryptocurrency account and then been moved on  it 
wasnt able to recover any funds.
Unhappy, Mr B brought his complaint to our service. Our Investigator reviewed the matter 
and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They were satisfied Mr B had authorised the 
transfers and they didnt think Revolut ought to have done more to identify the payments as 
potentially fraudulent in the circumstances. They didnt consider Revolut ought to have had a 
cause for concern that Mr B was potentially at risk of financial harm, or that he was falling 
victim to a scam to an extent that it ought to have intervened and questioned him further 
about the transfers. 
With regards to the recovery of any funds, as the cryptocurrency had been moved on from 
Mr Bs cryptocurrency account, the Investigator considered there wasnt anything further that 
Revolut could do to recover the funds.
Mr B disagreed with the Investigators opinion and thought more should have been done by 
Revolut to prevent his losses. 
As Mr B disagreed with the Investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, 
its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail than 
has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
Revolut should have done more to prevent Mr Bs losses. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts. 
Having thought very carefully about Revoluts actions, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I 
do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him. Mr B was a victim of two cruel scams. 
But in weighing everything up, I dont think I can fairly say Revolut should reimburse him. Ill 
explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
It is agreed by all parties that Mr B made the bank transfers himself from his Revolut 
account. So it is the case that Mr B authorised all the transfers that are in dispute. And under 
the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place here) 
that means Mr B is responsible for them. That remains the case even though Mr B was the 
unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a Firm to question a transaction or payment, even 
though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, Firms like Revolut have 
certain obligations to protect customers from fraud.In this case, I need to decide whether Revolut acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr B when he made the transfers, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Ive thought about this carefully. Having done so, I cant fairly say that any of the transfers 
Mr B made in relation to both scams would (or should) have alerted Revolut that Mr B was at 
risk of financial harm, to an extent whereby it should have carried out some additional 
checks before processing the transfers. So I dont consider Revolut are liable for the losses 
Mr B incurred. Ill explain why.
The Revolut account was opened around two weeks before Mr B made the first transfer of 
£3,000 on 14 March 2022 and then a further £2,000 on 17 March 2022. I have to be mindful 
that banks / payment service providers process a high volume of transfers and transactions 
each day. And Firms have to strike a balance as to when it should possibly intervene on a 
payment against not holding up or delaying its customers requests. Here, I dont consider 
there is anything unusual or remarkable about the transfers or the amounts that ought to 
have alerted Revolut to the possibility Mr B was being scammed or was at risk of financial 
harm. 
Mr B then sent a further £1,000 around two months later on 11 May 2022. And then Mr B 
made a further two payments in August 2022 in an attempt to recover his money. Again, 
there isnt anything remarkable about these payments or the amounts that reasonably 
should have given Revolut any cause for concern
I note there was another transfer made for around £1,000 on 2 March 2022 that was initially 
raised by Mr Bs representatives. Revolut have evidenced that while it was made from Mr Bs 
Revolut account it went to Mr Bs primary bank account held at another banking provider. I 
think is fair to say that this amount doesnt form part of the amount lost as a result of the 
scam  albeit Im mindful Mr B then later transferred funds from his primary bank account to 
his Revolut account to facilitate the later payments to the cryptocurrency account. In any 
event this payment isnt something Revolut would have been suspicious of at the time Mr B 
made it.
 
Overall, I dont think there were grounds for Revolut to be suspicious Mr B may be a victim of 
fraud when he made the transfers to such an extent where I would expect them to intervene 
and carry out some additional checks or question him further about the transfers. So I cant 
fairly say Revolut could have prevented his losses or is liable in some way.
 
Recovery of the funds
Given Mr B sent the funds to a cryptocurrency account in his own name  with his money 
being converted into cryptocurrency and moved on  there wasnt anything further Revolut 
could do to help Mr B recover his funds. 
In summary, while I appreciate Mr Bs been the unfortunate victim of a cruel scam, I think 
Revoluts decision not to refund him in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I say this because Revolut followed Mr Bs instructions to make the transfers 
and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. Unfortunately, given the 
funds Mr B transferred were exchanged into cryptocurrency and moved on, there wasnt 
anything further Revolut could do to help Mr B recover his funds. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman