DRN-2933095
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs T complain the valuation HSBC UK Bank Plc got undervalued their property. 
That meant they couldnt have the fixed interest rate product they wanted and their 
contractual monthly mortgage payments were higher than theyd hoped for.
 
What happened
Mr C and Mrs T bought their house with a mortgage from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) in 
2018 for around £350,000 and spent around £50,000 extending and improving it.
In around October 2020 their initial fixed interest rate product was coming to an end. They 
wanted to re-mortgage with HSBC to take advantage of a new fixed interest rate product and 
avoid paying around an additional £250 a month. 
But the valuation HSBC got put the value of the property at around £20,000 less than its 
value in 2018 despite the work theyd carried out. This meant they couldnt get the rate they 
wanted due to the ratio of the loan to the value of the property (LTV) being too high.
Despite Mr C and Mrs T providing HSBC with additional information about the values of 
other properties in the area, the valuer didnt change his mind about the valuation of their 
property. 
They complained to HSBC that the valuation was too low. To put things right Mr C and Mrs T 
wanted HSBC to accept the valuation was wrong, or get another valuation, put them on a 
lower rate and backdate that rate to when their initial product had expired.
HSBC didnt uphold Mr C and Mrs Ts complaint, so they brought it to this service. They 
pointed out other - albeit higher - rates were available to Mr C and Mrs T if they decided to 
go ahead with a product switch with them.
Mr C and Mrs T took a higher fixed interest rate with HSBC but ended up paying around 
£100 a month than they had been. They say they felt they had no choice.
Our investigator looked into Mr C and Mrs Ts concerns. They didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong. Since Mr C and Mrs T didnt accept our investigators view, their complaints 
been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr C and Mrs Ts strength of feeling about what happened. And I can 
understand that, given the time and money theyd spent improving their home, it will have 
been disappointing the valuation came in lower than they expected. But, as Ill explain, I 
dont think HSBC did anything wrong.
From what Ive seen, HSBC appointed an independent surveyor who was competent and 
had the right qualifications to carry out the valuation. So, they were entitled to rely on the 
surveyors professional opinion about the valuation of Mr C and Mrs Ts property in deciding 
the interest rate they were prepared to offer them.  
HSBC asked the valuer to consider the information Mr C and Mrs T got about the value of 
other properties in the area. And although Mr C and Mrs T dont feel theyve had an 
adequate explanation about the valuation, I can see the valuer wrote to Mr C setting out how 
hed reached his conclusion and the comparable evidence hed taken into account. I think 
HSBC behaved reasonably in asking the valuer to look into things further and I dont think 
they were obliged to get a second valuation as Mr C and Mrs T would have preferred. 
Mr Cs mentioned hes seen recent reports of lenders deliberately arranging for properties to 
be undervalued. Hes says HSBC had access to his current account and would have known 
he and Mrs T would find it difficult to re-mortgage elsewhere because of their financial 
situation. Hes concerned HSBC used that information to their advantage. And he says he 
and Mrs T felt they had no choice but to accept the alternative higher rate with HSBC in the 
end.
I havent seen any evidence of wrongdoing by HSBC of the sort Mr C suspects. And I think 
Mr C and Mrs T could have looked into whether other lenders might have been able to offer 
them a better deal if theyd wanted to. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand it will be disappointing for Mr C and Mrs T, I 
dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr C and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman