DRN-4298971
The complaint
Mr H complains Anderson Maine Limited (AML) an Appointed Representative of Access 
Wealth Management (AWM) wrongly advised him to transfer his personal pension plans to a 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with another provider.
What happened
Mr H is represented in his complaint by a third-party representative but for clarity I will refer 
to Mr H throughout this decision.
Our investigator set out the background to this complaint in her view. 
Mr H was advised by AML in August 2018. At the time of the advice his circumstances were:
He was employed with an annual income or around £30,000 per annum.
He was married at the time of receiving the advice and this also remains the same. 
Mr H has no financial dependents.
Mr H was 53 years of age at the time of receiving the advice
He was looking to retire at age 67 and was in good health.
Mr H did not have any savings to act as an emergency fund.
Mr H and his wife had an outstanding mortgage of £47,000 at the time of the advice.
Mr Hs attitude to risk was categorised as medium risk.
Mr H held two personal pension plans and was a member of his occupational 
scheme at the time of the advice.
After the adviser assessed Mr Hs circumstances and objectives, the adviser recommended 
he transfer two personal pensions with existing providers to a SIPP with provider A. At the 
time of the transfer Mr Hs pension plans were valued at £35,813.00 and £23,423.09 
respectively.
The adviser recorded his recommendation to transfer his plans for the following reasons:
Transferring Mr Hs pensions was likely to provide him with better benefits at 
retirement than if he leaves his fund where it is.
Provider A have good financial strength; have a wide range of investment funds 
suitable for Mr Hs risk profile, and offer an annual service charge of 0.25%, which 
the adviser noted as making As contract one of the most competitive on the market 
for Mr Hs fund size.
Reduce the charges paid by Mr H. The charges made within Mr Hs existing plans 
were higher than charges made on other plans available within the market. So, by 
switching Mr Hs plans to another provider, AML said that it could help to reduce Mr 
Hs charges going forward.
Mr H brought a complaint via his third-party representatives against AWM (albeit it was AML 
who gave the advice as its AR)  on 14 December 2022. In summary the complaint said:
AWM recommended a SIPP to Mr H when the wrapper was not a suitable product for 
a client in his Defined Benefit situation. It said AWM failed to assess properly Mr H's 
needs and objectives at all.
AWM failed to consider and explain to Mr H the high costs involved and the charges 
in a SIPP platform compared to the fees in his original plan.
AWM failed to consider Mr Hs other assets/overall portfolio, resulting in the overall 
portfolios being unsuitable for the customer.
AWM failed to advise on the overall costs of the solution they were recommending, 
including product, platform, investment, transfer, annual fee, and advisor charges 
(initial and ongoing) to ensure their recommendations were suitable in light of 
alternative product options.
AWM failed to bring to Mr Hs attention that the recommended scheme is non-
standard and to highlight all relevant risks of a non-standard scheme.
AWM failed to highlight to Mr H that the initial investment and returns would not be 
guaranteed.
AWM failed to provide independent advice on the benefits and risks involved.
On 5 January 2023, AWM issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. In 
summary it said:
Mr H had four different Personal Pension Plans and was a member of his 
occupational work-based pension. It was not recommended that Mr H transfer his 
defined benefit scheme or cease contributing to it. It did not advise him to transfer 
any DB pension plan
Mr H was not assessed as having a low attitude to risk and pointed to the attached 
attitude to risk assessment.
Mr Hs needs and objectives were fully assessed and documented in the fact find 
provided.
The costs associated with the SIPP were lower than his existing plans as 
documented in the suitability letter and the O&M analysis.
Mr Hs assets and current circumstances were assessed and recorded in the fact find 
document.
There are no ongoing advice charges as AWM does not provide ongoing advice, 
unless specifically requested by the client.
AWM did not advise Mr H that the SIPP is a non-standard scheme. The SIPP and the 
investment fund inside the SIPP wrapper were mainstream and not unregulated in 
any way. A uses the term SIPP to describe all its pension wrappers
AWM highlighted that the investment returns were not guaranteed in both the 
Suitability Report and Personal Illustration. It is factually incorrect to say otherwise.
AWM provided independent advice as detailed in the O&M Analysis, Client 
Agreement and Fact Find.Mr H didnt agree with AWMs findings and brought his complaint to this service via his third-
party representatives.
An investigator looked into things for Mr H. She didnt uphold his complaint. She clarified that 
no Defined Benefit pensions were transferred. Instead, AML recommended Mr H complete a 
switch of two of his personal pensions to an alternative personal pension with A. She then 
went onto look at the suitability of the advice.
In summary she found the advice provided by AML to be suitable because:
The plan recommended was actually cheaper than Mr Hs existing pension 
arrangements. 
Mr H didnt lose out on any benefits because there were no guaranteed annuity rate 
(GAR) on Mr Hs existing plans, nor did Mr H lose any right to take benefits at an 
earlier than normal retirement age.
Having considered the attitude to risk assessment and personal circumstances she 
was satisfied the recommended pension arrangement was in line with Mr Hs attitude 
to risk. 
AWM accepted the investigators view and had nothing further to add.
Mr H, via his third-party representatives did not.  He didnt provide an explanation as to why 
he didnt agree with the view issued but instead provided information obtained via a DSAR 
from A. This was information pertaining to the transfer and the receiving pension plan. 
Mr H asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have independently reached the same outcome as our investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H, via his representatives and by AWM. Having considered all the 
evidence available, Im persuaded that the advice to transfer the pensions was suitable in 
the circumstances. 
AWM, through its Appointed Representative AML, was providing regulated investment 
advice to Mr H. It was required to provide suitable advice, which is reflected in the 
Regulators rules on providing such advice. These rules were set out in COBS (Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook), and in particular in COBS 9.2 - assessing suitability.
Broadly speaking, that section sets out the requirement for a regulated advisory business to 
undertake a fact find process. Once the fact finding was complete, COBS 9.4.7R required a 
business to explain why the firm has concluded that the recommended transaction is 
suitable for the client" - in other words, it needed to provide its client with a suitability report 
outlining its advice and the reasons for it.In 2009 the regulator published a checklist for pension switching. It highlighted four key 
issues it thought should be focussed on  Charges (has the consumer been switched to a 
pension that is more expensive than their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without 
good reason?); Existing benefits (has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good 
reason?); Risk  (has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match them 
recorded ATR and personal circumstances?); Ongoing fund management (has the 
consumer switched into a pension with a need for ongoing investment reviews, but this was 
not explained, offered or put in place?) 
So, in reaching my decision I have considered the evidence provided alongside the guidance 
provided by the regulator.
Charges play a very important part when considering whether its in the consumers best 
interest to switch their pension or not. Whilst they cant be viewed in isolation, higher costs 
would generally point towards being a good reason not to move. So, that means thered 
need to be other, more compelling reasons to justify a switch. In this case the pension that 
was recommended was actually cheaper than Mr Hs existing pension arrangements. Of his  
existing plans, one had a single fund and the other was split offering annual management 
charges of 0.15%, 0.65% and 1.0% respectively, as opposed to 0.35% with the 
recommended plan with provider A.  So, with regard to the charges, Im satisfied AML did 
not recommend a more expensive plan to Mr H than his existing personal pensions.
As our investigator has already said Mr H didnt lose out on any benefits by transferring his 
plans. There was no guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) on Mr Hs old plans, nor did he lose any 
right to take benefits at an earlier than normal retirement age. So, Im satisfied Mr H hasnt 
lost any benefits in transferring his plans into one plan with provider A.
Im also satisfied the recommended pension plan was in line with Mr Hs attitude to risk and 
personal circumstances. Provider As plan has a wide range of investment funds that were 
suitable for Mr Hs risk profile.  The adviser recommended Mr H invest 99.75% in the 50/50 
Bond & Equity Index and 0.25% in Cash which Im satisfied is consistent with Mr Hs attitude 
to risk. AML explained that the recommended fund invests in a wide range of asset classes 
and has a low annual management charge of 0.1%. This meets his risk profile as assessed 
within the risk questionnaire provided.
The last area to consider is whether Mr H switched into a pension with a need for ongoing 
investment reviews, but this was not explained, offered or put in place. Mr H was advised to 
switch his existing plans to another personal pension arrangement that was less expensive 
than his existing arrangements and not more complex. Im satisfied Mr H was not switched 
into a pension where there was a need for ongoing investment reviews that were not 
explained, offered, or put in place.
I have also looked carefully at the DSAR obtained by Mr Hs third-party representatives and 
submitted as a basis as to why it feels the recommendation was not suitable advice for Mr H. 
It is essentially the administrative elements of the transfer including the Origo notes, 
illustrations, contract notes and pension plan details. There is everything I would expect to 
see regarding the information of a new pension plan and the transfer of the existing plans 
into it. But this has little to do with the recommendation and whether or not it was suitable 
advice for Mr H.
That information is discerned from documents including but not limited to the fact find, 
suitability letter, attitude to risk questionnaire, O&M analysis and the advisers notes. I 
havent seen any evidence to persuade me that the recommendation to transfer his existing 
pension plans was not sound advice and suitable for Mr H.It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman