DRN-3740470
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the lack of support from Mortgage Agency Services Number 
Five Limited when they experienced financial difficulty during the pandemic and were unable 
to make their mortgage payments. 
What happened
In 2006 Mr and Mrs G took a mortgage with Mortgage Agency Services Number Five Limited 
(MAS). Since then, some payments have been missed and the account has fallen into 
arrears.
In March 2020, the UK entered a nationwide lockdown due to the pandemic. The Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in late March in relation to borrowers
who were unable to meet their mortgage payments due to the lockdown. This guidance
meant that no payments would need to be made towards a customers mortgage for, initially
three months, before this was extended to a six-month period. The interest due during this
period would still need to be repaid, and this is something which would typically be added to
the mortgage and repaid over the remaining term. This is referred to by the FCA as a 
payment deferral rather than holiday.
In April 2020, Mr and Mrs G applied for a three-month payment deferral, due to the impact 
the pandemic had on their household income. This was extended for a further three months 
until September 2020. Their payments were to resume in October 2020. Although MAS and 
Mr and Mrs G have referred to this as a payment holiday, Ill be referring to payment 
deferrals throughout this decision.
Following the six months of payment deferral, Mr and Mrs G were unable to resume
payments. So, in Mid-October 2020 they contacted MAS to ask for ongoing support. 
After considering Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances, MAS declined several forbearance options 
due to unaffordability. Some ongoing conversations took place in the coming months. But 
because Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances remained broadly the same, MAS didnt change its 
position.
Mr G next contacted MAS in early February 2021, to explore options again. By this point, 
him and Mrs G were unhappy that MAS hadnt agreed ongoing support to date. So, they 
brought their complaint to our service. 
Shortly after, following an updated assessment of Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances, MAS 
agreed to a three-month reduced payment arrangement. It was agreed that Mr and Mrs G 
would pay £316 a month instead of their usual payment of £1,296.11 for February to April 
2021. Their normal payments would resume on 26 May 2021.
Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy with how long it took MAS to agree to this concession, so 
they wanted our service to continue looking into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think MAS had treated Mr and Mrs G 
unfairly in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs G didnt agree and asked for the case to be 
decided by an ombudsman.
Since the complaint has been with our service, things have evolved, including Mr and Mrs G 
raising further complaints against MAS. In this decision I will only be focusing the complaint 
Mr and Mrs G made in February 2021 about the lack of support from MAS during the 
pandemic. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MAS complied with the FCAs guidance by granting Mr and Mrs G a six-month payment 
deferral when they said they were experiencing financial difficulty during the pandemic. 
The guidance said that after the six-month deferral period had ended, it expected
lenders to consider tailored ongoing support for customers if needed, But, in these
circumstances normal credit reporting would resume. There was nothing in the guidance to 
say that customers were automatically entitled to a concession. Lenders have an obligation 
to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable.
Mr and Mrs Gs account has been in arrears since 2006. In 2020 they told MAS that their 
household income and been impacted due to the pandemic. In August 2020 it was noted 
that they were solely relying on Mr Gs income as Mrs G wasnt able to work due to her 
health. Mr G is a taxi driver. He told MAS that he usually earned £400-£500 a week, but this 
had reduced to around £150 a week. An affordability assessment was carried out showing a 
disposable negative income of around £1,413.
By mid-October 2020, once their payment deferral period had ended, Mr G told MAS that 
their circumstances remained broadly the same. They asked MAS for ongoing support as 
they werent able to resume full payments. 
Lenders should treat consumers who are in financial difficulties fairly by discussing their 
circumstances with them and trying to get the mortgage back on track. If a suitable solution 
cant be agreed, the lender should clearly explain why to the customer. Whats appropriate 
will depend on the consumer's individual circumstances. The lender will usually complete an 
assessment of the consumers income and expenditure to understand their circumstances.
As such, MAS needed to carry out a review of Mr and Mrs Gs account and circumstances to 
assess a suitable option. During the call in mid-October 2020 MAS said it would look into 
things and get back in touch. Mr G asked for a response in writing, which inevitably slowed 
down the response time. MAS wrote to Mr and Mrs G two weeks later to say it couldnt agree 
to a further payment deferral. 
MAS explained that a further payment deferral would increase Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage 
balance and monthly payments. Based on Mr Gs sole household income, the existing 
mortgage payments were already unaffordable, so it wouldnt be suitable to agree a 
concession that would increase their mortgage payments further. 
When considering MAS actions, Im satisfied it fairly considered Mr and Mrs Gs position 
and clearly explained why it wouldnt be in their best interest to agree a further payment 
deferral. Based on what MAS knew about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances, I dont think it acted unreasonably by not agreeing to something that would cause them to fall into even 
more financial difficulty in the future.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs G were in financial difficulty before the pandemic. Their account 
had been in arrears since the mortgage was taken in 2006. In April 2020 when they asked 
for a payment deferral, their account was in arrears of around £4,000. Their account has 
remained in arrears since. So, its clear Mr and Mrs Gs financial difficulties are long-term. 
MAS was expected to take that into account when deciding a suitable way of trying to help.
Throughout November and early December 2020 Mr and Mrs G carried on asking for help. 
But their circumstances remained broadly the same. MAS said that when considering Mr and 
Mrs Gs historic payment history it had concerns about underlying long term affordability 
issues. So, MAS maintained its position that it could not agree to a concession that would 
cause their mortgage payments to increase. It already had concerns about the affordability 
of the mortgage. For the reasons Ive already explained I dont think this was an 
unreasonable decision to make. 
During this time, MAS did often suggest Mr and Mrs G seek some independent advice and 
support from debt organisations and government benefit schemes to assist with their 
financial difficulty. 
MAS notes suggest that Mr G next called to discuss his account in early February 2021. 
MAS reassessed their circumstances. At this time Mr G said his income had increased from 
around £300 per month to between £1,000 and £1,100 per month. Although this still showed 
a negative disposable income, because their circumstances had improved, MAS agreed a 
three-month reduced payment arrangement. 
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with how long it took MAS to agree a concession. They felt 
MAS didnt want to help them, and instead persistently wrote to them demanding repayment 
of the arrears without offering any support. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think MAS acted unreasonably by initially refusing an 
extended payment deferral or other options including a temporary switch to interest only, that 
would ultimately have a similar impact on Mr and Mrs Gs account. And it provided a clear 
reason why it wasnt prepared to agree these options. It was only due to a significant change 
in circumstances that MAS changed its mind. 
I appreciate this was a worrying time for Mr and Mrs G and at times it mustve been 
frustrating waiting to hear back from MAS, but when considering everything I dont think it 
took MAS too long to get back to them with its decisions on the concessions. There were 
also times where Mr and Mrs G were unreachable, so I cant say either party was solely 
responsible for any potential delays. 
Mr and Mrs G have also raised concerns generally about the several letters and demands 
for payment from MAS. Whilst I accept that such letters can be distressing, I dont consider it 
unreasonable for MAS to of have sent these to keep Mr and Mrs G informed of the status of 
their account. This is a regulatory requirement and MAS must send these letters as part of 
its duty as a responsible lender.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman