DRN-2184416
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Market Harborough Building Society mis-sold them two payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 1998 and 2000 during meetings. The policies gave Mr and Mrs T accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. The 1998 policy was amended to protect solely Mr T within the first 
month of cover. They paid a monthly amount for the PPI.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint, Mr and Mrs T disagreed so it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive followed it 
here. I will review each of the sales in turn.
PPI sale in 1998
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Market Harborough Building Society had to make clear to Mr and Mrs T that they had a 
choice about PPI, and they had to agree to take it out. Mr and Mrs T say they had PPI on 
their mortgage from when it started in 1985. But they havent provided any evidence to 
support this. The societys records do show their mortgage started in 1985, but the 
application for PPI is dated September 1998. And Ive seen no evidence from either party to 
show they were paying for PPI before then. There is a letter showing they requested it to be 
put solely into Mr Ts name in that same month in 1998. 
As they already had a mortgage in place, I think Mr and Mrs T would have known this policy 
was optional and as they completed and returned a separate application form for the PPI, I 
think they agreed to take it. 
Market Harborough didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs T so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs T got the information they 
needed to decide if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information Market Harborough gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But I dont think they would have made a different decision with 
better information. I dont know when they were told about the exclusions or the cost. But 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they were 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. 
Mr T was entitled to just statutory sick pay, Mrs T was entitled to six months full pay and six 
months half pay and they had some savings. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
Mrs Ts work benefits and for up to 12 months. It also gave 12 months redundancy cover. It 
would have allowed them to use any savings to cover other living expenses whilst not 
working, or to keep them intact for their future needs.  So I think the PPI would have been 
useful for Mr and Mrs T if they were sick, had an accident or lost their job(s). I note the policy 
was amended soon after the sale to cover only Mr T but I have assessed both parties 
circumstances as that was how the policy was set up at the time of the sale.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs T lost out because of any problems with the sale in 1998.
PPI sale in 2000
Ive again decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs T say they were told the PPI was compulsory. I have reviewed the letter they 
refer to. And Market Harborough agrees that for the mortgage Mr and Mrs T wanted it 
required customers to take out PPI as a condition of the agreement. But I dont find that the 
PPI was mis-sold just because it was compulsory with this mortgage product. 
Market Harborough was open about its conditions for offering this mortgage and it was 
allowed to decide the terms on which to offer its mortgages. If Mr and Mrs T hadnt wanted 
PPI, they couldve selected a different mortgage product, or gone to a different lender. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage offer. On it I can see there is a section related 
to PPI that says accident, sickness and unemployment cover is compulsory with this 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs T have signed this form directly beneath this so I think they gave 
their consent to go ahead knowing PPI was being added to their account 
Market Harborough didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs T so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs T got the information they 
needed to decide if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information Market Harborough gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But I dont think they would have made a different decision with 
better information. I dont know when they were told about the exclusions or the cost. But 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they were 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. 
Mr T was entitled to just statutory sick pay, Mrs T was entitled to six months full pay and six 
months half pay and they had some savings. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
Mrs T work benefits and for up to 12 months. It also gave 12 months redundancy cover. It 
would have allowed them to use any savings to cover other living expenses whilst not 
working, or to keep them intact for their future needs.  So I think the PPI would have been 
useful for Mr and Mrs T if they were sick, had an accident or lost their job(s). 
Mrs T also said she feels the policy should have been solely in Mr Ts name. But they 
selected an equal split on their mortgage application form in 2000. And I've looked at 
what we know about the policy and can see that no matter how the cover was set up the 
overall cost would've been the same. This is because the cost of the policy was based on the benefit it would pay. So if the policy only covered Mr T the cost wouldn't have changed if 
the cover was solely for him. And I note Mrs T made a successful claim under this policy.
But Market Harborough has paid back some of the cost of the PPI sold in 2000 to Mr and 
Mrs T because: 
Market Harborough got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because Market 
Harborough didnt tell Mr and Mrs T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Market Harborough has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint.
But Market Harborough Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium from the 
policy sold in 2000. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further 
compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman