DRN-2811126
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC suspended her account on the basis 
that Mrs L was in persistent debt. Mrs L is also unhappy that shes still being charged 
monthly interest.
What happened
In September 2018, Mrs L received a letter from Tesco advising that shes paid more in 
interest and fees in the last 18 months that shed paid towards repaying the outstanding 
credit balance. The letter continued to explain that this meant that Mrs L was considered as 
being in persistent debt and that if she continued to meet that definition over the next 18 
months that Tesco might be required to take action. Finally, the letter gave an explanation of 
how Mrs L could increase her payments so that she would no longer be considered as being 
in persistent debt.
Mrs L didnt increase her payments, and a further, similar letter was sent to her by Tesco 
nine months later, reminding Mrs L that unless she made payments such that she could no 
longer be considered as being in persistent debt by April 2020 that Tesco may have to limit 
or stop the use of her credit account. Tesco also sent a further letter to Mrs L in February 
2020, again explaining that the deadline for her to make payments so as to not be 
considered as being in persistent debt was approaching. Mrs L didnt make any payments to 
that effect, and in April 2020 Tesco sent Mrs L a letter explaining that her account had been 
suspended because of this.
Mrs L wasnt happy about what had happened, so she made a complaint. Tesco looked at 
Mrs Ls complaint, but they felt that they had followed the correct procedure and had sent 
clear and consistent communication to Mrs L advising her about it. So, they didnt uphold 
Mrs Ls complaint.
Mrs L wasnt satisfied with Tescos response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that Tesco had followed 
the correct process here, and that Tesco had communicated clearly to Mrs L about it, and so 
they also didnt uphold this complaint.
Mrs L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In March 2018, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued new rules and guidance about 
persistent debt. These rules mean that businesses have an obligation to identify where a 
customer has paid more towards interest and charges than towards clearing the capital 
balance of any borrowing. Under the guidelines, if a customers account meets the definition 
of persistent debt over an 18 month period, then the business is required to send out a 
series of correspondence informing customers of the steps they can take so as to no longer 
be considered as being in persistent debt, as well advising the customer of the actions that 
the business may need to take if that customers account remains in persistent debt.
For any accounts that remain within the definition of persistent debt for a further 18 months 
following the sending of the first letter, the business has a responsibility to take action, 
including the suspension or cancellation of accounts so that the account doesnt remain in 
persistent debt indefinitely.
Thats what Tesco did here. The letters they sent to Mrs L clearly explained that Mrs Ls 
account was considered as being in persistent debt and provided Mrs L with the information 
needed for her to make the necessary payments so that her account would no longer be 
considered as such. Additionally, the letters that Tesco sent also clearly explained the 
potential consequences should Mrs L not take the necessary action, and should her account 
continue to meet the definition of persistent debt. And this included the possibility that her 
account may be suspended.
Im aware that Mrs L is also unhappy that Tesco have demanded that the outstanding 
balance now be repaid by Mrs L over a period of no longer than four years from the date of 
the account suspension. But I dont think that its unreasonable of Tesco to have asked Mrs 
L to clear the balance within this time, and I note that Tesco give Mrs L the option of 
arranging a different payment plan with them, if one is required.
Finally, Mrs L isnt happy that she continues to pay interest on the balance, even though the 
account has been suspended. But Tesco offered Mrs L a payment plan of £80 per month at 
0% interest, or a tailored payment plan at a reduced rate of interest, after either of which the 
credit account would be permanently closed. Tesco have further explained that if Mrs L 
wants the account to be re-opened, that the balance still needs to be cleared in full but that 
the account will continue to incur interest at the contractual rate. 
This feels fair to me, and I wouldnt expect Tesco to offer Mrs L a repayment plan with a zero 
or lower rate of interest without the condition that the card be permanently closed once the 
balance was repaid.
All of which means that its difficult to conclude that Tesco have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
Tesco to take any further action at this time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman