DRN-2613732
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont refund several transactions made on his credit 
card account between May 2020 and June 2020 which he says he didnt make or otherwise 
authorise. 
What happened
In June 2020, Mr M reported several unauthorised transactions totalling over £6,500 made 
with his credit card between 14 May and 7 June 2020. All the transactions were made 
outside the UK. Mr M said he was still in possession of his credit card at the time of reporting 
the fraud. He said the card PIN wasnt written down, he hadnt shared it with anybody and 
that he lives alone. Mr M says that he was in the UK during the period in which the disputed 
transactions were made.
Lloyds declined the claim and held Mr M liable for the transactions. They said they were 
unable to treat the transactions as fraudulent because there was nothing to suggest that they 
were carried out by someone who had fraudulently obtained Mr Ms card and security 
information.  
Mr M brought his complaint to this service as he didnt agree with Lloyds decision to decline 
his claim. He was also unhappy he was given this answer on the same day he reported it to 
them. He says Lloyds decision to decline his claim on the basis that the transactions were 
made using his card and the correct PIN isnt in itself proof of authorisation, and therefore 
contravenes the Payment Services Regulations. He says the burden of proof lies with the 
bank and they must prove he authorised the transactions before holding him liable for them. 
Mr M also says that as the transactions were made with his credit card and are 
unauthorised, he should receive the protection available under the Consumer Credit Act 
1974.
In his submissions to this service, Mr M has shared the following:
web-links to show that due to the pandemic, there were international flight restrictions 
to the country where the disputed transactions took place between March 2020 and 
May 2020. And so, he thinks this proves he wouldnt have been able to travel there to 
make the disputed transactions during the relevant period.
Emails between Mr M and DWP to show he applied for benefits in April 2020. Mr M 
says this evidence supports he was in the UK at the time.
A witness statement from a friend to confirm he met with Mr M (in the UK) whilst out 
shopping in March 2020. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded that the transactions were unauthorised. He felt the 
technical evidence supported that its more likely the transactions couldnt have been carried 
out without Mr Ms authorisation. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
doing so, he said the investigator hadnt considered the banks obligations under the relevant 
regulations that apply here. Mr M also provided this service with online articles hed found on 
the internet to show that the chip in a card can be cloned and therefore he believes this is 
what has happened in his case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mr M has made considerable submissions in bringing his complaint. This includes specific 
reference to various sections of laws and regulations. Ive considered all that he has 
provided but I wont be responding in similar detail. So, if I dont comment on any particular 
point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I 
dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy, it 
is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
The regulations relevant to this case are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs). In 
short, the regulations say that generally Lloyds can hold Mr M liable for the disputed 
transactions if the evidence suggests that he most likely made or authorised them himself. 
Where credit is involved, as it is in Mr Ms circumstances, the PSRs make provision for the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) to apply in place of certain sections of the PSRs. 
Section 83 of the CCA says that a consumer isnt liable for any loss arising from the use of a 
credit facility unless they or someone acting as their agent used it. In the circumstances here 
all the transactions were made using a credit facility. So, Ive carefully considered both the 
relevant law and regulation when deciding whether Lloyds acted fairly. 
The starting point is, for a transaction to be authorised it must be authenticated. This can be 
done in a number of ways including amongst others, chip and PIN or by inputting the card 
security details (e.g. CVV number). Lloyds have provided evidence which shows that the 
transactions were verified by the correct security information relevant to each payment 
method. Here the transactions were mostly point of sale payments made with the physical 
presence of Mr Ms credit card and its corresponding PIN, three of the disputed transactions 
were contactless payments. 
Ive considered Mr Ms suggestion that his card was cloned, I think this is unlikely to be what 
has happened here. Even if a card can be cloned, it certainly isnt something that can be 
done easily. And I dont think the pattern of use of the card (which Ill come to below) 
supports that this is what took place. Overall, Im satisfied the transactions were correctly 
authenticated.
But I agree with Mr M that this, on its own, isnt enough for Lloyds to hold him liable. I also 
need to decide whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr M consented 
to the transactions being made. 
Mr M says he couldnt have made the transactions as he didnt travel abroad and was in the 
UK during the time period in which they took place. Ive carefully thought about this, but I 
dont feel I need to make a finding as to whether Mr M was in the UK or not at the relevant 
time to fairly decide this complaint. Its quite possible that Mr M could have given his card and PIN to another person to make the transactions. In which case he would have both 
consented to and authorised them. Even if I were to accept that he was in the UK (which for 
clarity I make no finding on) this wouldnt automatically mean that he didnt consent to the 
disputed transactions. The relevant consideration is not Mr Ms physical location, but 
whether he authorised the payments, either by making them himself or by permitting another 
to do so.
The technical evidence shows there were no incorrect PIN entries and the correct PIN was 
entered on the first attempt each time. Mr M said he didnt write his PIN number down 
anywhere nor did he share it with anybody else as hed memorised it. Ive also thought about 
whether someone may have seen Mr M enter his PIN on a previous occasion, but I havent 
been able to establish when this could have happened as Mr M hadnt used his credit card 
for any PIN verified transactions for some time prior to those he disputes. So overall, there 
isnt a plausible explanation for how another person could have known the correct PIN 
associated with Mr Ms account. 
Mr M also told Lloyds that he still had that same card in his possession when he reported the 
transactions to them. I find it unlikely that someone unknown to Mr M obtained his card in the 
UK and travelled thousands of miles abroad to carry out the transactions only to later return 
the card to him - without him noticing the card was missing nor the activity on the account. 
I also dont think the way in which the disputed transactions took place supports that an 
unknown third party is responsible. Normally, if someone unauthorised had access to a 
credit card, they would seek to obtain the maximum benefit as quickly as possible. This is 
because the unauthorised transactions could be noticed and reported at any time leading to 
the card being blocked. But here the disputed transactions took place over a period of 
weeks. There were also times with several days between transactions. The pattern of activity 
doesnt support that this was unauthorised account use. 
Further to this on 2 June 2020 Lloyds records show that an SMS was sent to Mr M to advise 
the account had exceeded the credit limit. And on 3 June 2020 Lloyds sent him an email 
advising the same. Yet the transactions werent reported until six days later. Mr M says he 
was unwell around that time and didnt check his phone or emails. I think its unlikely that 
Mr M didnt check his phone for six days, even whilst unwell. And if he wasnt expecting the 
spending on his card, I would have expected him to have contacted Lloyds immediately 
upon such a notification. 
Mr M has presented a case that his card had been cloned and used abroad without his 
knowledge or consent. I cant know for certain what took place, but my role requires that I 
make a decision on the balance of probability. And having considered all the evidence, Im 
not persuaded that either the card was cloned or that someone unknown to Mr M made the 
transactions without his authorisation. I agree with our investigator that its more likely than 
not that Mr M authorised the transactions and as such I think it is fair for Lloyds to hold him 
liable for them. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, but I hope he understands 
why I have reached the decision I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman