DRN-4008112
The complaint
Mr O complains about the sale of two bonds by Gallium Fund Solutions Limited. He says he 
was given false reassurances about how secure the investments were and misled that there 
was protection if the investments failed. 
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
In April 2017, Mr O invested £10,000 in a three-year Fixed Monthly Income IFISA Bond. And 
in August 2017, he invested a further £10,000 in a three-year Compounding High-Yield 
IFISA Bond. Sales of the bonds were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a 
separate business from Basset & Gold Plc (B&G plc), the issuer of the bonds. BG Ltd 
arranged applications for investments in the bond, through a website it operated. And it was 
responsible for advertising/marketing the bond. Potential investors were also able to call BG 
Ltd, to discuss the bond.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr Os investment in the bond and experience 
Prior to taking out the two bonds subject to this complaint, Mr O had taken out 
another bond with B&G around six months earlier. In 2017, he recalls being 
contacted by B&G Ltd and encouraged to make further investments. 
At the time of investing Mr O said he had been retired for approximately three 
years and was collecting a pension. He said all of his other previous investments 
(apart from the previous investment with B&G plc mentioned above) were held in 
cash ISA's with banks and National Savings investments earning interest. He had 
been using the interest from these savings to supplement his income. He was 
attracted by the high interests being offered by the B&G bonds. 
He says the funds he used to invest were from his retirement lump sum  and 
was told he was covered by FSCS protection worth £50,000 and wasn't aware 
the underlying fund was invested a payday loan company.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender. Following action by the FCA, the payday lender went into administration in March 
2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr O has not 
had his invested capital returned to him.
The application process
I have not seen any contemporaneous evidence relating to Mr Os applications to 
invest in these bonds. Mr O recalls speaking to BG Ltd when applying. He recalls 
receiving a phone call from a relationship manager at B&G Ltd and was encouraged to 
make further investments into a new product.
We asked for copies of any call recordings BG Ltd held. We were provided with copies 
of call recordings from before he applied and after the investment in the bonds was 
made. There is a copy of a call from around March 2017 between the relationship 
manager from BG Ltd and Mr O, so not long before the April 2017 bond was applied 
for. During this call the only material information the relationship manager gathered 
from Mr O was basic details including his National Insurance (NI) number and intended 
investment amount. We havent been provided any further calls in relation to when Mr 
O was making applications to invest in the two bonds subject to this complaint. 
I have been provided with a copy of the records BG Ltd held on its system, but this 
doesnt confirm the full application history for these bonds. The system records show 
that Mr O was tagged as an everyday investor on 6 April 2017. This is in line with 
what Gallium has told us about the application process being online. I have also seen 
copies of the bond certificates showing an application date of 6 April 2017 and 31 
August 2017 respectively.   
Gallium has explained the application investors were only able to apply online - although it 
was possible for prospective investors to speak to individuals from BG Ltd on the
phone to answer questions. And through the online application process, steps were taken to 
ensure that the applicants who were able to access the investment opportunity were 
appropriate investors in that they had sufficient understanding, experience, and financial 
means to put their money at risk.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Gallium says Mr O would have gone through. This consisted of two 
stages, designed to meet the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on 
how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was 
certification, where the system records indicate Mr O was categorised as an everyday 
investor. The second was the appropriateness test. 
Galliums response to Mr Os complaint
In June 2020, Gallium responded. It did not uphold Mr Os complaint. It said Mr O had been 
given sufficient information and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further 
submissions, once Cs complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in 
full. I have also considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets 
out general information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Os complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
Mr O was reordered as an everyday investor or to use the regulatory language a 
restricted investor. The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr O 
as a restricted investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bonds for 
him was misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs 
rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr O wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr O to invest. For these reasons, both cumulatively 
and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mr 
O for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Regardless of label, Mr O was required to confirm that he met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr O giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers, and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr O made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and did 
not choose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the investment regardless. 
 
I issued a Provisional Decision in February 2023. This is what I said:
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to sale of these two bonds. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
overall conclusion as the investigator.  The investigator considered the complaint on the 
basis that Mr O applied for both bonds online following the application process that was 
detailed by Gallium in the submissions it made to this service. As previously mentioned, 
there is limited evidence to indicate how the bonds were applied for. But whether this was 
online or through another process, I havent found that BG Ltd met its obligations  so Im 
minded to reach the same conclusion for both sales.  In summary:  
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr O into certifying himself as belonging in 
a category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term 
used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one 
anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mr O fairly or acting in his best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr O, it is unlikely he would 
have certified himself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr O. In the circumstances Mr O would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr O.
If Mr O applied for his investments in a different way, I havent seen evidence to 
support that Gallium met its obligations in respect of certification and appropriateness 
test as required. 
Mr O responded to say he accepted the provisional decision. 
I didnt receive any further evidence or arguments from Gallium by the deadline set for 
responses. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Gallium has not made more comments or arguments for me to consider and Mr O 
accepted the conclusions, Ive got no reason to change the outcome I set out in my 
provisional decision. 
To confirm, for the reasons described in my provisional decision, I find Mr O would either not 
have proceeded to make the investments or would not have been able to proceed, had 
Gallium acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it 
is fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mr O for his loss and I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr O 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not invested in the bonds.
I take the view that Mr O would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr O's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr O fairly, Gallium must:Compare the performance of Mr O's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay Mr O £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by the total loss of 
his investment and the disruption to his retirement plans.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
April 2017 
Three-year 
Fixed 
Monthly 
Income 
IFISA Bond Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
August 
2017  
Three-year 
Compoundi
ng High-
Yield IFISA 
Bond Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investments at the end date.
If at the end date any asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr O agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the illiquid assets, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for it to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mr O that he repays to Gallium any amount he may 
receive from the portfolio in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If 
any distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, 
they must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr O wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr O's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr O would have invested only in a 
fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained with little 
risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman