DRN-1727249
The complaint
Mr Ys complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC is about delays in the sale of the holdings 
in his late mothers shares account. 
What happened
In July 2018 Mr Y decided to sell shareholdings that were held in the name of his late 
mother, who had sadly died in 2011. He posted a sealed Grant of Probate and executors 
renunciation form with a request to sell the investment. 
Mr Y contacted Barclays later that month when the Grant of Probate hadnt been sent back 
to him. Barclays told him they hadnt received his letter. During the conversation it became 
apparent that Mr Y had sent it to an address that was out of date.   
Royal Mail told Mr Y his letter might be returned to him, but it could take up to six weeks.  
Unfortunately, the letter didnt turn up and Mr Y was unable to pursue the matter further until 
September 2018. At that point, Mr Y applied for another Grant of Probate certificate, which 
took five weeks to be processed.
Mr Y says he resent his request to Barclays, along with the supporting documents, on
13 October 2018. When he hadnt heard anything by 8 November, Mr Y called Barclays. 
They told him they didnt appear to have received his letter as nothing had been scanned 
onto their system.    
The next time Mr Y heard from Barclays was on 20 December when he received a letter to 
say the sale had been processed. Mr Y called Barclays to cancel the sale as he realised the 
price of the shareholdings had dropped. But Barclays told him the instruction had already 
gone to the broker and it was too late to stop the sale. 
Mr Y complains that it took Barclays 24 weeks to process the sale and the value of the 
shareholdings fell £5000 in that time. Barclays told Mr Y they couldnt be held responsible for 
the delay but accepted they should have communicated more clearly with him. They offered 
him £100 in compensation. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ys complaint and didnt think she could hold Barclays 
responsible for the delays. She thought Barclays offer of £100 was fair. Mr Y disagrees with 
our investigator and has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The initial delay was caused by Mr Y sending his original letter to an out of date address. 
Mr Y says he used a form he found in his mothers files. He says Barclays should have told 
him about changes that affected his mothers account and notified him that the address for 
correspondence had changed.Barclays have said Mr Y informed the managers of his mothers account in 2011 that she 
had passed away but didnt take any further action at that time. From 2015, responsibility for 
the account transferred to Barclays. 
Barclays have said that customers would usually have been sent information about changes 
to their accounts. But because they didnt have any legal documentation to establish who 
was the executor of the estate, they were unable to send Mr Y or anyone else information 
about his late mothers account. 
I think what Barclays have said is reasonable. They werent in a position to communicate 
with Mr Y about his mothers account prior to him providing documents to establish who was 
the executor of the estate. And I dont think they were under any obligation to tell Mr Y about 
the change in correspondence address. So I dont think I can hold Barclays responsible for 
Mr Y using an old form and sending his original letter to an out of date address. 
Mr Y thinks Barclays should have told him to resend his letter when he first called them in 
July 2018. I note that Barclays have accepted it would have been more helpful to suggest 
that to Mr Y. But I dont think they were obliged to do so. It was for Mr Y to decide whether to 
resend his letter as soon as possible or wait and see if his original letter was returned.
Mr Y says he resent his letter on 13 October but didnt receive any response from Barclays 
until 20 December. Barclays say theyve no record of receiving the letter until 12 December 
when the paperwork was scanned.
I dont doubt that Mr Y sent the letter in October, and I can see he contacted Barclays to 
chase things up on 8 November. It appears the letter was either delayed in the post or was 
delivered to Barclays in good time but left unactioned for two months. I accept that either 
option is possible. 
But overall, I dont think Ive got enough evidence to say the delay was caused by Barclays. 
Mr Y didnt send the letter by registered delivery so theres no information on its journey 
through the post. And the first record Barclays have of the letter is in December. So I dont 
think it would be fair for me to hold Barclays responsible for this delay.  
I note that Mr Y feels that Barclays should have told him to send the letter by registered post. 
But I dont think they were obliged to do so. It was for Mr Y to decide how best to send the 
letter. 
Ive also looked at what happened once Barclays had registered the documents from Mr Y 
on 12 December. Two days later the account was added to the relevant spreadsheet to be 
closed, and the shareholdings were sold on 19 December. 
When Mr Y received a letter from Barclays on 20 December, he called to say he didnt want 
to go ahead with the sale because the share price had dropped. But Barclays told him the 
sale had already gone ahead and it was too late to change his mind. 
Mr Y says Barclays should have contacted him before selling the shares as so much time 
had passed since he gave the instruction to sell. Barclays have said this was an execution 
only account, which means they would follow the customers instructions rather than offer 
advice on a transaction. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr Y has said. But as Ive concluded above, I dont think I 
can hold Barclays responsible for the fact that his request wasnt registered with them until 
12 December. And once it was, Im satisfied that Barclays acted promptly to execute Mr Ys 
instructions. I dont think Barclays were obliged to contact Mr Y before going ahead with the sale of the 
shares. And I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in carrying out Mr Ys request in the 
way they did. I wont therefore be asking them to compensate Mr Y for any fall in the value of 
the shareholdings. 
I appreciate this must have been a very frustrating experience for Mr Y. But in view of my 
findings above, I think Barclays offer of £100 in compensation is fair and reasonable. And I 
wont be asking Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I consider Barclays Bank UK PLCs 
offer to pay Mr Y £100 in compensation to be fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Matthew Young
Ombudsman