DRN-3344098
The complaint
Mr N, as director of a company I shall refer to as Z, complains about the decision of 
China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd to decline Zs business interruption insurance claim, 
made as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended merely as a summary of the main events relating to this compliant. 
Z is represented in this complaint, and the events have also included the involvement of 
other third parties. But for the sake of simplicity, I have just referred to Z and China Taiping.
Z operates as a restaurant in Scotland and held a commercial insurance policy underwritten 
by China Taiping. In March 2020, Z was forced to close as a result of the COVID-19 
pandemic and contacted HDI to claim for its losses. 
China Taiping declined the claim, saying it the cover in relation to disease offered by the 
policy was restricted to a specified list of diseases. And that, as this list did not include 
COVID-19, it did not cover the circumstances of the claim. China Taiping also did not think 
there was any cover in the circumstances from the other parts of the policy. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Z ultimately brought its complaint to this service. However, our 
Investigator agreed with China Taipings interpretation of the policy. Our Investigator also did 
not think COVID-19 had caused damage as required by the policy, or that the restrictions 
imposed on Z by the Government regulations introduced to control the spread of COVID-19 
were due to defects in Zs sanitary arrangement. 
As Z remained unsatisfied, its complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on Z, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
I understand that Z closed its business in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
restrictions. The nature of its business was such that it wouldnt have been allowed to stay 
open after this time. So, the type of cover its looking to claim under is business interruption 
insurance.
There are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering 
different risks. For example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, 
whilst others provide cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional 
add-ons. The starting point is to consider the specific policy Z took out.
The core cover provided by the business interruption section of Zs policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover  including the Prevention of Access extension, is 
based on an interruption to the business of the insured which has been caused by damage. 
Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-
19 caused damage which led to an interruption of Zs business.
I agree with the Investigator that damage or destruction, would require either a physical 
change to property or specialist cleaning to remove the cause of damage. I dont consider it 
can be said that physical changes were caused by SARS-COV-2 to property. And I also 
dont consider that any specialist cleaning of property was required. So, I dont think there 
was relevant damage or destruction. 
And I dont think the temporary loss of use of Zs premises (or the premises of its suppliers, 
etc.) would constitute damage as required by the policy. I consider this would need to be 
more than a temporary loss, where recovery was uncertain. 
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Zs claim. And I think 
China Taiping acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Zs claim under this area of cover.
Sanitation 
One of the extensions to the business interruption section of Zs policy includes cover for 
interruption where there has been a closure of the insured premises:
by a competent public authority following defects in drains or other sanitary 
arrangements, or the discovery of pests or vermin at the premises
Zs representative has said that the premises were closed for sanitary reasons because it 
was not safe for the public to congregate in close proximity to one another. As such, it 
considers this subclause provides cover. 
It seems to me that the heart of the issue is whether or not an inability to enforce social 
distancing could be said to qualify as a defect in the sanitary arrangements at Zs premises. 
In determining this, amongst other things, Ive considered relevant case law, in particular the 
case of Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas Corporate Brokers Ltd & Anor 
[2021] IEHC 263. This case took place in the Irish courts, but in the absence of a 
comparable English or Scottish case, I feel it is useful to consider the points made in this 
case in terms of considering how a court in those jurisdictions might decide this point of 
contractual interpretation. 
The judge in this case considered policy wording similar to that in Zs policy and considered, 
in part, the meaning of the term other sanitary arrangements, when used in context similar 
to Zs complaint.
The judge said, at paragraph 164:
 it is essential to consider the meaning of a contractual provision as of the date 
when the contract was concluded. The question, accordingly, is whether a 
reasonable person, in the position of the parties at the time the contract was 
concluded, would understand that the reference to a defect in the other sanitary 
arrangements at the premises was intended to capture an inability to ensure that 
appropriate social distancing was maintained.This reflects the position of English and Scottish Law that the meaning of a contract should 
be interpreted objectively, by considering what would be understood by a reasonable 
person, with the relevant background knowledge, at the time the contract was entered.
Zs policy was entered in February 2020, before any restrictions were introduced in the UK in 
relation to COVID-19. And, whilst social distancing has been practiced throughout history as 
a means of preventing the spread of disease, until recently, it was not in the UK. So, I am not 
persuaded that a reasonable person reading the particular wording of Zs policy in 
February 2020 would have considered this subclause to refer to an inability to enforce social 
distancing at Zs premises. 
Additionally, it isnt clear what Zs representative considers the defect at Zs premises 
actually is. As the judge in Brushfield said at paragraph 166, A defect inherently involves 
some element of deficiency or fault. Z operates as a restaurant and no evidence has been 
provided to suggest there was any deficiency or fault in its sanitary arrangements. Im not 
persuaded that the normal operation of a business can be called a defect, and certainly not a 
defect specific to Zs premises which led to its closure. I havent been provided with any 
evidence to suggest it was the circumstances at Zs premises in particular that led to the 
Governments decision to introduce the restrictions it did in March 2020. 
For these reasons, I consider China Taipings decision to not to meet Zs claim under this 
section was fair and reasonable. 
Disease 
The policy also includes cover for business interruption caused by 
any organism that is likely to cause a Specified Illness at the premises
However, the policy goes on to say Specified Illness:
means illness sustained by any person or persons resulting from any of the following 
human infectious or contagious diseases:
Mumps, Malaria, Yellow Fever, Acute Encephalitis, Chickenpox, Cholera, Scarlet 
Fever, Viral Hepatitis, Whooping Cough, Tuberculosis, Smallpox, Dysentery, Acute 
Poliomyelitis, Anthrax, Diphtheria, Leprosy, Leptospirosis, Meningococcal Infection, 
Opthalmia Neonatorum, Paratyphoid Fever, Plague, Rabies, Rubella, Tetanus and 
Typhoid Fever
Having considered this term, Im not persuaded this section of the policy would have 
provided Z with cover for the circumstances of its claim. This is because COVID-19 isnt one 
of the diseases listed in the definition.
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for China Taiping to include it in 
the policy at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I 
dont think China Taiping intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all 
diseases. China Taiping deliberately chose to define Specified Illness by reference to a 
static list of certain diseases.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. The list is prefaced by, means illness  from any of the following 
diseases. It is difficult to read a definition which begins with the word "means" as other than 
exhaustive. And the inclusion of the following also supports this being an exhaustive list. 
Additionally, there is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge.
As Ive said above, a range of policies are available. And some provide cover for all 
notifiable diseases  a list of diseases updated by the Government. These policies might, 
depending on the circumstances, provide cover. But this is not the type of policy Z has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy Z has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy definition of Specified Illness in the policy. There are many 
potential illnesses and diseases that the policy does not cover including, for example, SARS 
(another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering 
any and all diseases that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly 
and reasonably be read in a different way.
Zs claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Zs policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied China Taipings decision to decline the 
claim was in line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and 
reasonable.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means China Taiping should have met Zs claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Mr N, but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman