DRN-1535574
The complaint
Mr C complains that Elderbridge Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably in administering 
his secured loan and the settlement figure. He wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr C had a secured loan with Elderbridge, formerly with another lender, which was taken out 
partly to consolidate his unsecured debts. He called to get a settlement quote in 2019, but it 
was £5000 more than hed expected. When Mr C asked Elderbridge about the amount 
claimed, it said it had added interest but he felt that it wasnt a proper answer. Mr C didnt 
think interest should be charged on arrears. Elderbridge didnt provide a final response letter 
within eight weeks of the complaint being raised.
Mr C complained to us through his relative. Elderbridge explained that the loan was originally 
for about £60,000 and it went in and out of arrears; the arrears increased as payments 
werent made and a payment arrangement was put in place. The loan transferred to 
Elderbridge in 2016 (Mr C was notified by letters) and a new payment arrangement agreed. 
Elderbridge said it told Mr C that much of the monthly payment was to pay interest. It pointed 
out that the agreement allowed interest to be charged on the amount outstanding, which 
included arrears. Elderbridge accepted that when Mr C agreed a repayment plan of £500 a 
month in 2018, hed incorrectly been told this would reduce his loan balance by £6,000  this 
was because the member of staff overlooked the arrears and the need to pay interest. 
Elderbridge apologised for this failure and accepted that it had taken too long to respond to 
Mr Cs complaint; it paid £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
The investigators view was that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mr C was told 
about the transfer of the loan to Elderbridge at the time and explained that complaints 
handling wasnt an activity within this services jurisdiction. The investigator noted Mr C had 
been in arrears before the transfer and his financial position was regularly reviewed with 
both the first lender and Elderbridge, and hed borrowed about £60,000  she didnt think the 
amount claimed as settlement appeared to be incorrect.
But the investigator listened to the 2018 call between Mr C and Elderbridge and agreed that 
hed been given incorrect information. She said that there was no financial loss as Mr C paid 
what he could afford and even if the incorrect information hadnt been given, Mr C wouldve 
still owed the debt. The investigator didnt think £150 compensation was enough for a 
consumer in poor health who suffered a shock on discovering he owed more than hed been 
led to expect. She said another £250 should be paid on top (a total of £400).
Mr C disagreed. He said that he felt bullied by the previous payment of £150 from 
Elderbridge and wasnt happy with the answers hed received. Mr C wanted the money he 
owed reduced significantly. Elderbridge accepted the investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to focus on the core of this complaint which is about the settlement amount to pay 
off the loan in full; I can see Mr Cs relative was unhappy about the transfer of the loan to 
Elderbridge, but I can see both the original lender and Elderbridge sent letters to the correct 
address, and they arent responsible for the delivery of post. Complaints handling isnt a 
regulated activity within the jurisdiction of this service, but in my view there was nothing 
bullying about Elderbridge paying £150 compensation to Mr C  it identified failings and 
addressed them.
Having seen the evidence available to me, Im satisfied that Mr C did borrow about £60,000, 
and got into arrears due to reductions in his income and job loss. Mr C remained in arrears, 
but agreed a series of repayment plans with the first lender and Elderbridge, and broadly has 
kept to those agreements. It isnt unlawful to charge interest on arrears  interest is charged 
on the amount outstanding under the terms and conditions of the agreement; if a payment is 
missed or not paid in full, the balance owed goes up and so increases the interest due.
While this service isnt a forensic accounting service, and if Mr C wishes to challenge the 
amount claimed, its open to him to instruct a forensic accountant as his own expense, Ive 
looked at the account and cant see anything to suggest the settlement figure is incorrect. 
Mr C has recently said that he stopped paying the loan for a period when it transferred; the 
obligation to make payment is on the consumer. Mr C was notified of the transfer.
The above doesnt mean that Elderbridge didnt act unreasonably and unfairly. It accepts 
that a member of staff gave Mr C incorrect information in 2018 about the likely level of the 
outstanding balance in a years time. It isnt my role to punish a financial business for making 
a mistake; my role is to put the consumer back into the position that they shouldve been in 
all along. Mr C owed the money and the mistake doesnt change this. Theres no evidence of 
financial loss as Mr C was paying what he could afford and was obliged to repay. It wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable for me to reduce the money owed  Mr C borrowed the money, had the 
benefit of it and its reasonable for a lender to expect repayment on the agreed terms (with a 
variation to reflect what is now affordable).
That leaves the issue of compensation for trouble and upset. Such compensation never truly 
compensates for trouble and upset and this services awards are generally modest. Mr C did 
suffer from raised expectations which were disappointed, his health according to the 
evidence isnt good, and matters were compounded by the delayed handling of his 
complaint. £150 isnt sufficient. I also think Mr C is much more distrustful of Elderbridge as a 
result of whats happened. Taking all the circumstances into account, I think another £250 is 
fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Elderbridge should pay Mr C another £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
by the incorrect information given in 2018 and the handling of his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Elderbridge Limited should pay another 
£250 compensation to Mr C for his trouble and upset. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 2 
October 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman