DRN-1743917
The complaint
Mr T complains about the end of contract charges in relation to a car that was supplied to 
him through a hire purchase agreement with Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF). Mr T is 
also unhappy that his credit file is displaying wrong information about his agreement with 
SMF.
  
What happened
In September 2015 Mr T acquired a second-hand car through a hire purchase (HP) 
agreement with SMF. The car was registered in October 2011, which means it was about 
four years old when Mr T entered into the agreement. The price of the car was £10,000 and 
had a recorded mileage of around 89,406. The credit agreement was payable over 61 
months.
In July 2018 Mr T says he requested to voluntary terminate (VT) his agreement with SML.  
The following month Mr T received a letter from SMF confirming his VT request, and 
advising that on return of his car hed be liable for any damage that was considered to be 
beyond fair wear and tear. The VT was implemented by SMF in August 2018. Mr T 
explained that he handed the car back to a collection centre the same month. SMF system 
notes confirm the car was handed back on 14 August 2018. Mr T says he returned his car in 
a good condition and was told by the collection centre that the car didnt need to be 
inspected. 
Mr T explained that SMF tried taking monthly payments from his account for around three 
months after hed ended his agreement with them.
In October 2018 SMF sent a letter to Mr T explaining that he was two payments in arrears. 
However, Mr T says when he called SMF to enquire about the missed payments, he was 
told that theyd made an error which they agreed to put right. SMF confirmed that Mr T called 
them in October 2018 to discuss the letter he received about a missed payment. SMF also 
explained that they told Mr T he could disregard the letter and his credit file would be 
amended.
Following an inspection of the car by the collection centre in November 2018, SMF wrote to 
Mr T to say that he owed them £1,191.55 for end of contract rectification charges. These 
were charges for damage to the car that they considered to be beyond fair wear and tear. 
In addition to this Mr T says he noticed that his credit file hadnt been updated by SMF. He 
explained that his credit report was showing that hed missed some payments against the 
agreement. 
In August 2019 Mr T complained to SMF. He disputed the end of contract charges and 
wasnt happy that his credit file was still showing missed payments against the agreement.
On 16 October 2019 SMF provided their final response to Mr Ts complaint. They didnt 
uphold Mr Ts complaint, but as a gesture of goodwill, SMF offered to reduce the rectification 
charges by half, and to review the information on his credit file relating to his HP agreement.
Unhappy with their response, Mr T brought his complaint to us here. One of our investigators 
looked into his concerns and concluded that SMF had acted unfairly. Our investigator 
recommended that SMF correct Mr Ts credit information to reflect that he had no late 
payments recorded against the agreement, he also recommended that SMF remove all end 
of contract rectification costs, as he felt SMF hadnt sufficiently demonstrated that the 
damage to the car fell outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines.
SMF disagreed with our investigators view and asked that the complaint is referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
Following the investigators view Mr T has said hed like a reimbursement of the costs he 
believes he would have saved on his mortgage payments had his credit information been 
correct.
Mr T also provided us with a witness statement from a friend who he says was with him 
when the car was delivered. The statement explains that the car was kept in a good 
condition and disputes the damage that has been advised on the inspection report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having considered all the information, it seems to me there are three key issues for me to 
consider in relation to this complaint:
1. did SMF fairly apply the end of contract charges?
2. should Mr Ts credit information be corrected?
3. should Mr T be compensated?
did SMF fairly apply the end of contract charges?
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA), and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear on passenger cars, so Ive referred to 
their guidelines when considering whether SMF acted fairly and reasonably in applying their 
rectification charges.
 
The BVRLA says that at collection, the cars condition should be checked together by the 
customer and a representative and that all readily apparent damage should be noted and 
signed for by both parties. SMF and Mr T both agree that this didnt happen.
 
Having looked at the inspection report, its clear from the advisories that the car had 
sustained some damage, but its not certain to me when the damage had occurred. For 
example, the collection centre had the car in their possession for a period of around three 
months prior to the inspection and SMF confirmed that the car had to be taken to a different 
site to be inspected. So its entirely possible that some of the damage advised could have 
taken place after Mr T returned the car. SMF havent demonstrated how the damage has 
breached the guidelines of fair wear and tear. For example, I havent seen photos with 
measurements clearly pointing out the extent of the damage they believed to be beyond 
whats acceptable.
The onus is on SMF to demonstrate the damage was present when the car was returned. 
Thats because they are the party requesting rectification costs. Although the BVRLA allows 
for a further and more in-depth inspection to take place at a later point, there was no initial check of the car carried out. Had SMF carried out an initial check or provided Mr T with an 
initial report on delivery, or highlighted more clearly on their inspection report how the 
damages had breached the fair wear and tear guidelines, the likelihood of any disputes 
could have been significantly reduced. Because it did not, I think that makes SMFs case 
very difficult to demonstrate. So, in the circumstances of this complaint Ill be instructing SMF 
to remove the rectification charges.
should Mr Ts credit information be corrected?
On 8 August 2018 SMF sent Mr T a letter confirming the VT had been initiated, and that as 
Mr T had already paid half of the total amount due, he needed to deliver the car to their 
collection centre. Mr T confirmed that hed delivered the car to the collection centre in August 
2018, this has been confirmed on SMF system notes. 
Under the termination: your rights section of the HP agreement, it says SMF will be entitled 
to half the total amount payable under the agreement, along with the returned goods. It also 
states:
If youve already paid this amount, plus any overdue instalments and have taken reasonable 
care of the goods, you will not have to pay any more.
So, its fair to say that Mr Ts regular payments were no longer due after August 2018. 
However, on 3 October 2018 Mr T received a letter from SMF advising that he was in default 
of his agreement because September and Octobers monthly payments of that year hadnt 
been made. But as already noted, Mr T ended his agreement around two months earlier. 
Having viewed a copy of Mr Ts credit report from May 2020, I can see that four missed 
payments have been recorded against the agreement from September 2018, and the 
agreement was showing as being settled in December 2018.
In their response to our investigators view, SMF acknowledged that theyd recorded Mr Ts 
credit information incorrectly. Under the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA), SMF have a legal 
obligation to rectify it. So, I think its reasonable for Mr T to expect his credit information to be 
corrected. 
SMF should have marked the agreement on Mr Ts credit file as having no outstanding 
payments, and it whilst it would have been more appropriate for the disputed debt to be 
marked as being queried, the most appropriate way now to record the position on the credit 
file would be to indicate the account was settled in August 2018, when Mr T made his last 
regular payment and returned the car.
So, in the circumstances, Ill be instructing SMF to amend Mr Ts credit report to accurately 
reflect the position of the HP agreement. 
should Mr T be compensated?
Mr T told us that as a result of the incorrect credit information hes not been able to secure 
his preferred mortgage interest rate, and so he says he had to pay an additional £609 over a 
two-year fixed period. Mr T has provided an email from his mortgage broker detailing the 
different rates that were available based on his credit rating.
Ive seen no evidence which specifically highlights that the missed payment information on 
Mr Ts credit report is the sole or main reason why certain mortgage rates were available to 
him and why others werent. Most interest rates that are applied to credit are based on credit scores; however, I think its 
more likely to be a culmination of events on a credit report that decides what customers are 
offered, rather than one particular entry as the sole reason for being given a particular rate of 
interest. So, in the circumstances Im not persuaded that SMF should compensate Mr T for 
the difference. 
Having considered all the information provided Im satisfied that removing the rectification 
charges and correcting Mr Ts credit information is fair in the circumstances, so, I wont be 
instructing SMF to do anything more than this.  
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I uphold this complaint and instruct Specialist Motor Finance Limited to:
remove all rectification charges relating to Mr Ts end of contract
amend Mr Ts credit information relating to his hire purchase agreement, removing 
any late payment information and correctly show the agreement as settled in August 
2018 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman