DRN-3652296
The complaint
Ms A complains that TSB Bank Plc will not refund payment transfers she thought were going 
to a legitimate trading company which she says turned out to be a scam.
Ms A is represented in this matter by CEL Solicitors (CEL).  For simplicity, I will refer to 
CELs actions and submissions as those made by Ms A.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, between June and October 2021, Ms A made several payment transfers from her 
TSB account to an account she held with a cryptocurrency exchange I will refer to as B.  She 
also made payment transfers to a bank account held in her name which I will refer to as R.  
Ms A moved the latter payments from R to fund her account with B.  Ms A says she believed 
all her funds would go from B to her trading platform account with an investment trading 
company.  However, Ms A says she later discovered that she had been duped by, amongst 
other things, the broker she had been dealing with, which resulted in her losing all her 
money.
Ms A contacted TSB about this and asked it to recover her losses.  As this did not happen, 
she raised a complaint which she referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Ms A did not 
agree with the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Ms A says that TSB did telephone her about one of her payments, but this was after she had 
already made several other payments,  which is alarming in itself that such a large sum of 
money went undetected.  Ms A also says that TSB did not pick up on the fact that she had 
money going in and out of her account in quick succession,  which is a clear sign of fraud 
and scam activity.
Regarding the payment TSB spoke to Ms A about, I have seen evidence which shows that 
during that telephone call, Ms A confirmed that the payment was going to her savings 
account.  I have not seen any evidence to suggest Ms A mentioned cryptocurrency, B and/or 
the intended final destination of her funds.  With this in mind, I would not have expected TSB 
to ask any further questions  particularly given the fact Ms A said the money was going to 
her savings account.
Regarding the other payments Ms A made, I am not persuaded that TSB ought to have 
intervened regarding them.  That is, I am not persuaded TSB ought to have been altered to 
the payments, delayed them and asked questions to get to the bottom of what was going on.  
I say this because I do not find the payments remarkable in any way to be cause for 
concern.
Ms A also argues that TSB should have stopped her payments to B as they are,  a 
banned payee and crypto currency provider due to their lack of safety and security.  From 
what I have considered, this is not an accurate assertion.  That is, there is nothing credible I 
have seen which suggests the purchasing of cryptocurrency from B is banned.  It follows 
that I am not of the view TSB should have stopped Ms As payments to B.
Taking all the above points together, I am satisfied that TSB has not done anything wrong in 
its decision not to refund the payments concerned  particularly given the fact Ms A made 
them to accounts controlled by her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman