DRN-4279359
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold 
them mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs F were sold PPI in 1992 at the same time as taking out the mortgage. Although it 
was a joint mortgage, the policy was set up just to cover Mr F.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BoS no longer has any paperwork available from the time of the sale, which isnt surprising 
given the time that has elapsed. 
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision based on the evidence that we do have and what I consider is most likely to have 
happened.
Mr and Mrs F say they werent made aware that the PPI was optional. 
From what we know of BoSs sales processes at the time, the PPI would normally have been 
presented as optional and I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case. 
Ive no doubt that they have provided their honest recollection of events. However, the sale 
was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if their memories have faded.
On balance, I consider that Mr and Mrs F probably decided to take it out, knowing that they 
didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
This was probably an advised sale. This means that, in recommending the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs F, BoS needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of their 
circumstances at the time, the PPI was suitable for them.
As Mrs F was working less than 16 hours per week, she wouldnt have been eligible for the 
policy, so it makes sense that it was set up just to cover Mr F.
Mr F would have received some sick pay from his employer. But the policy would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than he would have received full pay 
for. And the couple didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on.
So I think the policy could have provided a useful benefit at what would have been a difficult 
time. And indeed, Mr F has told us that he did make a claim on the PPI when he was made 
redundant in 1993.
BoS also had to provide Mr and Mrs F with sufficient information for them to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for them.
I think Mr and Mrs F would have known something about the policy  that it would have 
covered their monthly mortgage payments if Mr F was unable to work due to accident, 
sickness or unemployment. Because I dont think theyd have decided to buy it without 
knowing anything at all about it.
Theres no information available about what they were told about the cost of the premiums. 
However, I think that, if they had been told that the PPI would cost £24 a month for a 
potential benefit of £400 for up to 12 months, it wouldnt have caused them to change their 
minds about buying it.  I say this because they paid the premiums for a number of years and 
it appears to have been affordable for them.
Its possible that more information could have been provided about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr F wasnt affected by any of those things. For 
example, he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have been excluded 
under the policy. As I consider that Mr and Mrs F had an interest in the PPI and decided to 
buy it, I again dont think that further information would have caused them to change their 
minds. So they are no worse off as a result of anything BoS may have done wrong, so 
theres nothing that BoS needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman