DRN-3248976
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the service Brooklin Claims Consultants Ltd (BCC) provided when 
acting as loss assessors in respect of a home insurance claim made by her and her late 
husband, Mr B.
Sadly, Mr B passed away shortly after bringing the complaint to our service. For a time,    
Mrs Bs son acted as her representative for the complaint. For ease, Ill refer to comments 
made by him as being made by Mrs B.
References to BCC include agents it appointed to act on its behalf. 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs B home was damaged in a fire. The garage was largely destroyed 
with some less severe damage to the house. Mr and Mrs B appointed BCC to assist them 
with their home insurance claim. This included negotiating the settlement of the claim with 
the insurer and arranging repairs. 
Mr and Mrs B were placed in a hotel by an agent appointed by the insurer, while they tried to 
find suitable alternative accommodation. But the agent was unable to find a short-term let to 
meet the needs of Mrs B, who is disabled, and the hotel accommodation needed to be 
extended several times. BCC worked with various parties to get Mr and Mrs Bs property to a 
habitable condition so they could move back in while remaining works were completed. Mr 
and Mrs B moved back into their home at around the end of November 2019.
BCC arranged for works to be carried out on the property via a surveyor and a building 
contractor (K). The works included decorating inside the house and rebuilding the garage.  
The builders (who were sub-contracted by K) said they were unable to source blocks to 
match the existing blockwork in the garage. So, BCC gained agreement from the insurer for 
the remaining blockwork to be taken down and replaced with modern materials. However, 
after the building work had begun, Mr B found out that it was possible to get blocks to match 
the original ones. Mr and Mrs B also raised concerns about the quality of the work and the 
behaviour of the sub-contracted builders. The builders were removed from the job in early 
2020, but K had difficulty finding builders who were available to rebuild the garage.
Mr B found a builder who was able to do the work sooner than could be arranged by K. A 
quote was obtained for taking down what had been built by the previous builder and 
rebuilding the garage in blockwork which matched the original material of the garage. K 
agreed to pay around £2,000 towards these costs and BCC negotiated a cash settlement 
with the insurer to cover the rest of the building work. This was paid in early June 2020.
 
Mr and Mrs B complained to BCC about the service theyd received. Their concerns included 
the length of time taken to progress the claim and quality of the work carried out on the 
property when K was involved. Mr B was also unhappy that hed had to find his own builder 
to take over the work. 
BCC offered Mr and Mrs B £500 to resolve their complaint, but they didnt think this was 
enough to put things right, so they asked our service to look into it for them. Our investigator 
recommended BCC increase its offer to £1,000 but Mrs B didnt feel this was sufficient. She 
felt that at least £5,000 should be paid as compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
she and Mr B had experienced. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
Firstly, Id like to extend my empathy to Mrs B, who has sadly lost her husband after the 
difficulties she experienced following the fire. Id like to reassure Mrs B that Ive considered 
all of the information available to me, but Ive focused on whats relevant to the outcome of 
the complaint in my decision. 
The service BCC offered to Mr and Mrs B is explained on its terms of business agreement. It 
says:
We provide a Claims Consultants Service to our customers whereby we offer best advice as 
to the customers policy cover and the extent of the cover provided by the insurer in respect 
of the loss. Under the customers direct authority, we can offer to coordinate: emergency 
repairs, providers of professional services, specialist and general contractors to return the 
customer to their position before the loss as swiftly as possible. On behalf of the customer, 
we will negotiate with Insurers and Loss Adjusters the final settlement of the loss as 
equitably and swiftly as possible and arrange for interim payments to be made where 
appropriate. Signed mandates will allow us to collect & disperse the settlements to the 
various appointed contractors and to the customer as appropriate. We also provide 
professional guidance on Third Party Claims and Uninsured Loss. We will attempt to 
negotiate a timely settlement in your favour, however, every insurance claim is unique and 
we can never guarantee an exact timescale for settlement, if at all.
There were various aspects to Mr and Mrs Bs claim, with multiple parties involved. To reach 
a fair outcome to this complaint, Ive needed to consider what BCC was responsible for. This 
includes the actions of agents it engaged to carry out repairs to the property.
BCC has acknowledged certain issues with the work of the builders. It says its satisfied the 
£500 if originally offered is fair and reasonable to put things right, but its willing to accept our 
investigators recommendation to increase it to £1,000 in order to conclude the complaint. 
So, Ive considered if the BCCs offer is fair and reasonable to put things right.
Alternative accommodation
Mrs B says that she and Mr B had to live in their car for five nights because of an issue with 
their hotel booking. The hotel they were staying at was unable to accommodate them 
because of a prior booking. 
BCC says it wasnt responsible for Mr and Mrs Bs alternative accommodation because this 
was arranged by an agent appointed by the insurer.
BCCs notes indicate that the insurer had already appointed an agent to deal with Mr and 
Mrs Bs alternative accommodation before BCC became involved. On the instruction Mr B signed when Mr and Mrs B engaged BCCs services Buildings is circled while Alternative 
Accommodation is left blank. So, I dont think BCC was responsible for arranging the 
alternative accommodation for Mr and Mrs B. 
I can see that BCC spent a considerable amount of time contacting both the accommodation 
agent and hotel in an effort to help ensure Mr and Mrs B had somewhere to stay at various 
times. There are some references to the hotel being fully booked on certain dates and Mr 
and Mrs B saying they might need to find a friend or relative to stay with in BCCs notes. But 
the emails and notes suggest that BCC wasnt aware that Mr and Mrs B slept in their car 
until quite some time after this happened. 
I appreciate that issues with the accommodation will have been distressing for Mr and Mrs B. 
I havent got a complete picture of the circumstances which resulted in Mr and Mrs B 
needing to stay in their car. But having carefully reviewed all of the information available to 
me, Im satisfied that BCC wasnt responsible for meeting Mr and Mrs Bs accommodation 
needs and it also did what it could to ensure they had somewhere to stay. So, Im not 
upholding this part of Mrs Bs complaint.
Building works
BCC arranged for repairs to be carried out on Mr and Mrs Bs property. This means that it 
was responsible for their timeliness and quality.
I can see that BCC put a lot of time and effort into getting the house to a standard where Mr 
and Mrs B could safely move back in. This involved working with several parties to get the 
electricity and gas supply connected, a stairlift installed, carpets fitted, and painting done. 
Mr and Mrs B were out of the property for over five months while this was being done. But 
much of the delay was beyond BCCs control. It took some time for the electricity to be 
reconnected because of the availability of the electricity supplier and this was necessary 
before other work could be completed. Mr and Mrs B raised some concerns about the 
professionalism of the decorators, including them not working the hours they were supposed 
to. But I dont think this had much impact on the length of time it took for the property to be in 
a position for them to move back into.
 
I understand Mrs B also feels that they were made to move back into the property before it 
was ready, and BCC should have pushed for more temporary accommodation. But given the 
difficulties in finding a suitable short-term let for Mr and Mrs B, I think it was reasonable for 
BCC to have focussed its efforts on trying to make the property habitable. There were 
concerns about mounting hotel costs and the possibility of reaching the policy limit on 
alternative accommodation. While some concerns about the professionalism of the builders 
and the quality of the decorating were noted, I havent seen evidence to show that the 
property wasnt in a habitable condition when Mr and Mrs B moved back in.
From what I understand, Mrs Bs main concern is with the rebuilding of the garage. BCC has 
acknowledged there were issues with the professionalism of builders who were sub-
contracted by K. From what I can see, the builders said it wasnt possible to find blocks to 
match the existing blockwork on the garage, but this information later turned out to be 
incorrect. There were also concerns with the quality of the work the builders completed on 
the garage. 
It was unfortunate that K wasnt able to find builders available to complete the work on the 
garage after the relationship with the original builders broke down. And it was 
understandable that Mr and Mrs B wanted the garage to be rebuilt as soon as possible. 
When Mr B found a builder, who was available to complete the work, BCC took steps to negotiate a cash settlement from the insurer. This seems to have been the best course of 
action under the circumstances. Im satisfied that BCC handled this part of the claim 
professionally and wasnt responsible for delays in it being progressed. 
While I think BCC did its best for Mr and Mrs B under the circumstances, Im also mindful 
that it was ultimately responsible for the actions of the builders who failed to complete the 
work on the garage. This was frustrating and distressing for both Mr and Mrs B. It resulted in 
some inconvenience for Mr B as he went about finding another builder who could do the 
work and communicating with them and BCC. 
This also meant that the disruption Mr and Mrs B experienced lasted several months longer 
than it should have done. The absence of a garage meant a lack of storage space. Ive seen 
photographs showing a number of boxes and various other items cluttering their living room. 
This was likely to have been particularly distressing for Mrs B, who suffers from a serious 
health condition in addition to being disabled. So, I think it would be fair for BCC to 
compensate Mrs B for the trouble and upset that she and Mr B experienced.
Other concerns
Mrs B has expressed concerns with the length of time it took for the claim to be resolved. 
BCC has provided notes and copies of correspondence with various parties involved in the 
claim. Having reviewed these, Im satisfied that BCC acted professionally, taking steps to 
move things forward quickly and keeping Mr and Mrs B up to date with progress. So, I dont 
think BCC was responsible for any delays in the claim being progressed, other than the 
delay in the rebuilding of the garage Ive referred to above. 
I understand there were also some issues with contractors invoices not being paid on time, 
meaning that Mr and Mrs B were approached directly for payment. The insurer has 
acknowledged that there were delays with invoices for contractors and surveyors being 
presented to them by the loss adjuster the insurer had appointed to deal with the claim. They 
also acknowledged that BCC had to contact the insurer directly to arrange payment. The 
insurer paid Mr and Mrs B an amount to compensate them for the poor service they 
received. I can also see that BCC chased the loss adjuster and insurer multiple times for 
invoices to be paid. So, I dont think BCC was responsible for any frustration Mr and Mrs B 
experienced when asked for payment directly. 
In conclusion
I think BCC handled the claim professionally, doing what it could to move things forward 
quickly for Mr and Mrs B. BCC says it feels it was let down by others. I think thats right but 
as BCC had taken on the role of overseeing the reinstatement of the property, it was 
ultimately responsible for the other parties involved in this. 
Ive explained why I dont think BCC was responsible for the issues Mr and Mrs B 
experienced with the alternative accommodation or with delays in invoices being paid. Ive 
also explained why I think BCC was responsible for issues relating to the garage not being 
completed by the original builders. Having considered the impact of that on Mr and Mrs B, I 
think the £1,000 BCC has agreed to pay is fair and reasonable compensation for this. 
Putting things right
BCC should pay Mrs B £1,000 for trouble and upset. This includes the £500 it offered before 
the complaint was brought to our service. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Brooklin Claims 
Consultants Ltd to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and the 
estate of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman