DRN-3850017
The complaint
Mr V is unhappy U K Insurance (UKI) declined a claim under the terms of his travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr V holds a travel insurance policy with UKI as a benefit of his packaged bank account.  
In July 2022, he was due to fly to Italy to visit family. However, his outbound flight was 
cancelled by the airline due to a strike. The airline offered to arrange an alternative flight, but 
Mr V made his own arrangements instead. He then made a claim on his travel insurance 
policy for the cost of the replacement flight.
After considering the matter, UKI declined the claim and referred Mr V to an exclusion listed 
in the Delayed Or Missed Departure section of the policy. The exclusion explains that no 
cover is provided for flights that have been cancelled by the operator. Mr V didnt think this 
decision was fair.
An investigator then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said the airline was 
responsible for refunding the cost of the cancelled flight and UKI had acted fairly by declining 
to cover the cost of the replacement journey.
Mr V then requested a decision and said travel insurers should include cover for this specific 
claim scenario when designing their policies.  
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say UKI are required to consider claims promptly 
and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Mr V has claimed for the costs he incurred because his flight was cancelled by the airline. 
Im satisfied this scenario is excluded under the Delayed Or Missed Departure section of 
the policy. As it explains that no cover is provided for any claim where the aircraft, ship or 
train on which you are booked to travel is cancelled by the operator. Ive also reviewed the 
remaining sections of the policy and I cant see that they include cover for this scenario 
either. As Mr Vs claim isnt covered under the terms of the policy, it therefore follows that 
UKI havent unreasonably rejected it.
I appreciate Mr V feels UKI should have included cover for this type of claim when they 
designed the policy. However, no insurer provides cover for every eventuality. And UKI ( like 
all insurers) are free to decide the level of risk they are prepared to take when offering 
insurance. Similarly, consumers can decide which insurance policy best suits their needs. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman