DRN-4438649
The complaint
Ms D complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SW) provided her with a poor service for her 
pension plans held with them. Amongst other things, she said that SW had failed to take and 
invest the correct pension contributions from her employer.
What happened
Ms D had two personal pension plans with SW. I understand that these had been set up so 
that previous employers could pay pension contributions on her behalf.
On 20 July 2022, Ms Ds new employer emailed SW to tell it she wanted her employer 
contributions to be paid into her existing pension with it. And on 25 July 2022, SW wrote to 
Ms Ds new employer to tell them it needed a Letter of Authority to action their request.
Around this time, SW was upgrading its online systems. So its customers didnt have access 
to the online service.
On 22 September 2022, Ms D made an online enquiry for details of the contributions 
recently made to her pension by her employer. She also asked for email updates each time 
a contribution was made into her pension while the online access wasnt available.
Ms D complained to SW on 6 October 2022. She wanted to find out the latest amounts paid 
into her pension by her employer. She said SWs app and website were offline so she 
couldnt check this herself as usual. She wanted SW to send her an email showing all 
contributions and value changes for both of her pensions from the time shed started them. 
And then to send her monthly emails with this information until the app and website were 
back online. Ms D also said shed had trouble getting through to SW  both online and by 
phone - to find this information out.
SW issued its final response to the complaint on 11 October 2022. It acknowledged the lack 
of access to the online systems was inconvenient. But said that Ms D could call or email it 
instead. It said it wasnt able to send Ms D monthly statements while the online service was 
down. 
SW said itd received Ms Ds request for the contribution information on 23 September 2022 
through an online form. But that because itd received lots of requests at that time, itd 
exceeded its usual service level. It also acknowledged that Ms D hadnt been able to get 
through to it by phone as quickly as she wouldve expected due to a greater than normal 
level of activity. It apologised for the poor service. And paid Ms D £100 compensation to 
apologise.
On 13 October 2022, Ms Ds employer sent SW the completed direct debit form itd 
requested. And asked it to set up monthly contributions for Ms D on the first of each month 
starting on 1 November 2022 for £566.67 each month. 
Ms D was unhappy with the compensation SW had offered her. She said shed effectively 
not had access to make any changes to her pension since June 2022, which she felt was 
unacceptable. She also confirmed that she had two separate pension policies with SW. And 
said she was looking for a statement for both pensions so that she could see all 
contributions from the start. She said this was so she could see that her most recent 
contributions had successfully reached SW. 
On 24 October 2022, SW sent Ms D a direct debit mandate. It said it needed that and an 
enclosed form to be completed and returned.
SW issued a further final response on 4 November 2022 to cover Ms Ds ongoing concern 
that she couldnt make changes to her pensions. And to address her request for a statement 
for both of her pensions. 
SW said that although Ms D didnt have online access at this time, she could still call or 
email it. So it didnt agree that she couldnt make changes to her pensions. But it upheld Ms 
Ds complaint about her statement request. It agreed it hadnt fully actioned her request. And 
sent her £50 compensation to apologise. 
On 12 November 2022, Ms D sent a chaser email to SW as she still hadnt got the 
information shed asked for. And on 14 November 2022 she emailed it again to say shed 
received some correspondence. These were a contribution history for one of her pensions 
and a notice that an £837.50 contribution had been invested on 14 November 2022. But she 
was still waiting for some of the requested information. 
Ms D was concerned that her new employer had already sent SW the direct debit paperwork 
it said it still needed. So she asked SW to ensure that all contributions from her employer 
since June 2022 were correctly reflected in the information she was still waiting for. 
Ms D wrote to SW again at the end of November 2022 to chase the outstanding information. 
And to ask it why she still couldnt use the app. She said shed been given no timescale for 
the return of that service.
On 17 December 2022, SW wrote to Ms D to confirm that her monthly contribution would 
change from £53.85 to £566.67. And on 19 December 2022, it wrote to tell her that the first 
payment of £566.67 would be taken on 4 January 2023, with the next £566.67 being taken 
on 1 February 2023.
SW also sent Ms D a statement on 5 January 2023. This said that £654.16 had been 
invested on 26 August 2022. And a further letter which stated that Ms Ds plan had been 
restarted. And that £566.67 was due to be paid on 11 November 2022.
Ms D called SW on 3 February 2023 to raise a further complaint. She said that SW had 
taken a £3,400.02 contribution on 1 February 2023. This was six months of contributions. 
But only three months shouldve been collected to cover November 2022, December 2022 
and February 2023. Ms D wanted the excess contributions to be returned to her employer. 
SW said it asked for the excess to be refunded.
Ms D wrote to SW on 7 February 2023 to ask it why the £654.16 contribution, which was 
shown as being paid on 20 August 2022, hadnt yet been allocated to her pension. She 
asked it to allocate the contribution without delay and to send her an updated copy of all 
contributions made into her pension.
SW sent Ms D a pension statement on 13 February 2023 but this didnt show recent 
contributions. It sent a further statement on 21 February 2023 which showed a change of 
monthly contribution from £566.67 to £583.33. On 27 February 2023, SW sent Ms D a letter about the £654.16 paid on 25 August 2023. It 
said that this payment had now been applied to Ms Ds plan effectively on 26 August 2023. 
And apologised for the delay. It also sent further statements on the same day which 
confirmed the following:
- a contribution of £566.67 had been invested on 1 February 2023
- a contribution of £53.58 had been invested on 1 February 2023
- a contribution of £512.82 had been invested on 1 February 2023
- SW also provided a contribution history up to 27 February 2023.
On 3 March 2023, SW wrote to Ms D to confirm that itd returned the excess payment of 
£1,700.01 to her employers account. 
SW issued a final response to Ms Ds February 2023 complaint on 3 March 2023. It upheld 
the complaint. It said itd taken payment in error from her employers contributions. And that 
it would refund this back to her employer. SW sent Ms D £125 compensation for the poor 
service shed received and for the error itd made.
On 17 April 2023, Ms D called SW to raise a further complaint. The March 2023 contribution 
of £566.67 hadnt been taken. And the April 2023 contribution of £583.33, although showing 
on her pension plan, didnt appear in the bank statement. Ms D also noted that a random 
amount of £16.93 had been taken in April 2023. And the £566.67 contribution in February 
2023 wasnt showing despite the fact that the £1,700.01 contribution was partly in respect of 
that. She also complained about the continued delays to responses to her written requests.
SW sent Ms Ds annual statement on 27 April 2023. 
Ms D said she chased SW for a response to her complaint on 9, 11 and 22 May 2023.
SW issued its final response to the complaint on 23 May 2023. It said the level of service Ms 
D had received when asking for information had fallen far short of that which she couldve 
reasonably expected. It upheld the complaint and her £125 compensation for the following:
- the online portal not matching what her bank statements stated
- that Ms D hadnt received a response to her messages on the online portal
- that an incorrect contribution of £16.93 had been taken in April 2023 without 
explanation 
- that the payment correction in March 2023 hadnt allowed for the March 2023 
contribution to be retained
- that Ms D had needed to contact SW on several occasions to get answers to the 
issues, without getting them. 
SW said itd collected incorrect amounts from Ms Ds employer as follows:
- in February 2023 for £3,400
- in April for £16.93 
- It said that between January 2023 and April 2023 itd collected a total of £3,983. But that it had applied £2,283 to the plan. So £1,700 shouldve been refunded. 
It said that its Alterations team would look into correcting the errors. But it didnt explain how.
On 1 June 2023, SW wrote to Ms D to confirm that her direct debit had been cancelled. And 
on 2 June 2023, it wrote to her to tell her that the £583.33 contribution it had tried to collect 
was rejected.
Ms D brought her complaint to this service on 5 June 2023. She was unhappy with SWs 
response to her complaints.
Ms D said the following about her lack of online access: 
- SW had sent her repeat copies of her pension contributions by post. It would be for 
the wrong pension plan. But if it was for the correct one, it would be incomplete.
- She said she still wasnt able to check her monthly contributions on the app almost a 
year after shed first raised this as an issue. She felt this was unacceptable. 
Ms D said the following about the incorrect and missing direct debits:
- SW had failed to correct her pension after taking the £3,400.02 contribution and then 
refunding £1,700.01. It had only applied two monthly payments out of the three 
payments the £1,700.01 represented to her plan. So she felt it was holding £566.67 
of her funds, leaving her pension plan underfunded and deprived of potential growth. 
She felt this also showed that SW didnt keep a proper audit trail of entries made 
against her policy. 
- SW had taken a £16.93 contribution on 3 April 2023, despite her employer not having 
asked it to take this amount. SW had also failed to provide Ms D with any sort of 
explanation for this amount. And hadnt allocated it to her pension plan. 
- Ms D said her portal with SW currently showed £583.33 paid in April 2023. But she 
said no such contribution had been taken from her employers account, despite the 
direct debit mandate being active and shared in good time beforehand. She said her 
May 2023 contribution of £583.33 had been debited from her company's bank 
account as expected. And that in the interim shed received a letter from SW telling 
her that the direct debit details were changing and that a new form would need to be 
filled out. She said that this and SWs failure to address the issues shed raised led to 
her employer cancelling the direct debit with it.
Ms D also said that shed asked SW on 10 February 2023 whether she was being charged 
two pension fees for her two pension plans. But that it had failed to provider a response on 
this.
Ms D said shed been frustrated, exhausted and embarrassed by the shambolic service 
shed received from SW. She felt it hadnt done all it should to address her complaints. 
Ms D wanted SW to take the following steps to put things right:
1. Refund her employer the £16.93 SW had taken on 3 April 2023.
2. Respond to her question about pension fees. And consider a refund of the fees for 
the last year given the issues shed experienced.3. Ensure that the additional £566.67 her employer had paid in February 2023 in 
respect of outstanding contributions was correctly invested in her pension plan. 
4. Remove the £583.33 being shown as a payment to her policy in April 2023, as this 
hadnt been debited from her employer's bank account.
5. Pay her additional compensation to recognize the distress, inconvenience and 
embarrassment the errors had caused her. And to cover the loss in investment 
potential due to the direct debits not being taken when they shouldve been. 
I understand that Ms D now uses a new provider for her employer pension contributions. 
She said that her employer had paid the outstanding contributions for March 2023 and April 
2023 to her new provider alongside June 2023 and July 2023 contributions on 10 July 2023.
SW gave this service its consent to investigate the merits of the complaint. It also made a 
further offer to resolve the complaint. 
- It would re-apply the payments on the policy to ensure that they matched the 
amounts and dates that they were collected. 
- It would collect the missing contributions of £1,133.34 (£566.67 x 2) from Ms Ds 
employer to fill in the gaps. 
SW said it would offer the best price deal to ensure the re-application of these payments 
didnt financially disadvantage Ms D.
In respect of Ms Ds request for SW to consider refunding fees if it was making charges for 
both pension plans, SW said each of the two plans had Annual Management Charges 
(AMCs) connected to them. It acknowledged that itd caused inconvenience to Ms D, but 
said itd still carried out general servicing on both of her plans. As such, it said it wouldnt 
refund the charges. It felt that the £400 total compensation itd already paid Ms D for the 
distress and inconvenience itd caused her was enough.
Our investigator issued his view on the complaint on 14 July 2023. He felt that SWs offer 
was fair. And that SWs offer to work out the financial loss itd caused Ms D would put her in 
the financial position she wouldve been in if no mistakes had been made. He also felt that 
the compensation SW had already paid Ms D for the distress and inconvenience itd caused 
her was reasonable under the circumstances.
Ms D didnt agree with our investigator. She made the following points:
Regarding her request for fees to be refunded:
- Shed asked SW in early February 2023 about the fees it was charging for managing 
her pensions. This query remained open. She felt that SW had neither 
acknowledged, nor responded to, her query. And that it was unfair for her to expect 
to understand the fees if SW refused to respond. She said she didnt know how much 
SW was charging her, nor whether it was changing her for each of her two pensions. 
- Shed expected a much better service. She felt that SW hadnt tried to correct her 
issues. 
Regarding the incorrect contributions:
- She felt that SW had retained £1,700.01 of her employers money for a month. And that it was only because shed chased SW that this money was ever returned. She 
felt the same way about the random £16.93 payment. Ms D said that if she hadnt 
told SW exactly whatd gone wrong it would never have got to the bottom of things. 
She said shed still had no explanation from SW about why the £16.93 payment had 
been taken. 
- She felt shed been financially disadvantaged by the contribution errors. And that she 
couldnt transfer her pension contributions to another provider until SW had 
addressed all of her complaint points and corrected the payments. 
Regarding the lack of online access:
- Ms D said that one year on, the app was still not working as it did previously. And 
that shed still not been told when the app would be back to normal. She felt this 
showed that SW didnt care about its customers. 
- She felt that SW couldve provided responses to her requests electronically. But it 
had instead chosen to send her a huge amount of post. She said this led to replies 
being untimely, incorrect and unhelpful.
Regarding the £400 compensation payments made to date for distress and inconvenience: 
- Ms D didnt think the compensation shed received to date was fair. She said only 
she could truly know how shed been treated in the last year. And that trying to get 
the issues shed faced corrected had mentally drained her. 
- She felt shed been given piecemeal compensation over a year, rather than a 
resolution of her issues. 
Ms D said she wanted SW to take the following steps to put things right:
- Refund the £16.93 payment itd taken in April 2023 to her employer.
- Correct her online portal so it displayed payments already taken from her employer 
and deposited into her pension fund. Ms D provided a list of the corrections she 
wanted.
- Correct her account to the position it wouldve been in if the contributions had been 
paid and invested when they shouldve been, as follows:
oShe felt that the £837.50 that was invested in November 2022 shouldve been 
invested in October 2022. And that she had therefore lost out on the 
investment potential between October 2022 to November 2022.
oShe felt that the November and December 2022 contributions of £566.67, 
which had ultimately been paid as part of the net February 2023 payment, 
shouldve been invested earlier. So shed lost out on investment potential 
from November 2022 to January 2023, and from December 2022 to January 
2023 respectively.
oShe said that the February 2023 contribution of £566.67 wasnt detailed on 
her portal, despite the fact that the net February 2023 payment had included 
it. So shed lost out on the investment potential from February 2023 to date.
oShe said that £566.67 shouldve been taken and invested in March 2023 but wasnt. And that £583.33 shouldve been taken and invested in April 2023 but 
wasnt. These contributions had since been invested with a new pension 
provider. But Ms D felt that SW should provide her with investment potential 
lost on these amounts from March/April 2023 to 9 July 2023. This was 
because her March and April 2023 contributions were made to her new 
pension plan on 10 July 2023.
- Confirm the level of administration fees that shed been charged for the past year for 
each of her two pension plans. And refund her at least part of the fee for the plan 
being used for her employers contributions due to SWs mismanagement. She also 
wanted information about the refund of her fees after the date shed transferred her 
pensions to a new provider. 
- Award her additional compensation to recognise the stress and anxiety SW had 
caused her over the last 12 months. And for the embarrassment it had caused her 
with her employer. It should also pay her further compensation in respect of the 
amount of time it had taken her to sort out the issues she was facing. And because 
she felt shed been prevented from transferring to another provider whilst she was 
waiting for her issues to be addressed.
Our investigator shared Ms Ds comments in full with SW and asked it for its comments. It 
made the following points:
Regarding the fees:
SW said that although it hadnt responded to Ms Ds query about fees, it had now been 
addressed through her complaint to this service. It also said that information on charges was 
provided in the annual statements it sent. And explained exactly where Ms D could find that 
information in her most recent annual statement. 
Regarding the incorrect contributions:
SW acknowledged Ms Ds point that itd returned the £1,700.01 overpayment to her 
employer because shed chased it. But said that errors made within a company could 
sometimes slip under the radar. And that this was greatly amplified given the situation it was 
in after the systems update. It also said that this complaint fell under the poor level of service 
itd provided, which itd addressed. 
SW also acknowledged that Ms D felt that the issues were only being resolved because 
shed pointed them out. It said that complaints could grow/evolve over time, as they had 
here. And that itd now issued its findings with a final resolution to fix the payment issue, 
provided its reasons for why things went wrong, and provided its justification on why it felt its 
compensation was fair. It said that its offer of redress would ensure Ms D wouldnt be 
financially disadvantaged by the errors.
Regarding the lack of online access:
Although Ms D said she was still having issues with the app, SW said that many of its 
customers with similar plans had been able to access the app with no issues. And that it 
might help Ms D to contact its servicing team to ensure she was trying to log in to the app 
correctly. It also said she could view her plan using the SW website, which offered more 
options to make policy changes 
SW said that it had apologised for the poor service and offered compensation, in part due to 
not providing responses to Ms Ds requests in a more efficient manner.Ms D was still unhappy with our investigators view and with SWs offer. And she also noted 
that there were new issues with her pensions with SW. Our investigator explained that any 
new issues would need to be raised with SW directly as they were outside the scope of Ms 
Ds existing complaint.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 28 September 2023. It said:
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. I agree with Ms D that SW should provide redress for 
the lost investment return on the missed March and April 2023 contributions. And that it 
should increase the compensation it has paid for distress and inconvenience. However, I 
dont agree that SW should be required to meet all of Ms Ds other requests to put things 
right. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Theres no dispute that SW made some errors and provided a poor service to Ms D. What is 
in dispute is whether SWs offer of redress is fair and reasonable. 
In order to consider the fairness of SWs offer, I first considered the difference between what 
SW has offered Ms D in terms of redress. And what she has asked for.
Differences between SWs offer and Ms Ds requests
Ive noted the following disagreements between SW and Ms D. Ive numbered them for ease 
of reference:
1. SW said it would collect the missing contributions of £1,133.34 (2 X £566.67) from 
Ms Ds employer so it could fill in the contribution gaps. 
Ms D has said that SW cant take payment for March and April 2023 as her employer has 
already made contributions for these months to her new provider. 
SW thinks that this means that Ms D has ruled out the option for it to put things right in 
respect of these two payments. It said that if it had received these two missing payments, it 
wouldve offered Ms D the best price deal, which wouldve meant she wouldnt have been 
out of pocket. But it said that as the contributions had been made to a new provider, it 
couldnt be sure whether Ms D had lost out or not. 
2. Ms D wants SW to correct her online portal so it displays the payments that have 
been taken from her employer and deposited into her pension fund. She provided a 
list of the corrections she wanted. 
SW said it needed a screenshot of the platform Ms D had taken the information from. This 
was because the figures on its system didnt agree with what Ms D had provided. And it 
needed accurate evidence so that it could look to correct it. 
3. Ms D wants SW to refund her employer the £16.93 it took on 3 April 2023. But SW 
said that if it did so, this would mean that the total amount applied to her pension for 
the period from August 2022 to date would change from £4,358.33 to £4,341.40.
4. SW said it would re-apply the payments on the policy to ensure that they matched 
the amounts and dates that theyd been collected. But  and Im paraphrasing here - Ms D felt that all of the payments should be re-applied on the dates they shouldve 
been collected and invested.
5. Ms D also feels that SW should refund the fees its charged on the pension plan her 
employer contributions were being paid into. SW doesnt agree as it feels it carried 
out general servicing  for which the fees were charged - on both of her plans over 
the period in question. 
6. Ms D feels that SW should pay her further compensation for the distress, 
inconvenience and embarrassment the errors had caused her. And the time itd taken 
her to resolve all the issues. SW considers it has paid sufficient compensation in this 
regard already.
My thoughts
Regarding points 1, 3 and 4:
SW has provided confirmation of the amounts and dates that it has applied contributions to 
Ms Ds plan. This shows that between August 2022 and May 2023, a total of £4,358.33 was 
applied.
SW has also detailed how payments should've been collected. This shows that a total of 
£5,491.67 shouldve been collected and applied to Ms Ds plan over the period in question. 
So the difference is £1,133.34, or two monthly payments of £566.67.
SW has also provided confirmation of the payments that it actually collected. This shows that 
a total of £4,358.60 has been collected. The reason this is slightly different from the total 
applied to Ms Ds account is that SW took a payment of £16.93 in April 2023. It should in fact 
have taken a payment of £583.33 that month, rather than the previous monthly amount of 
£566.67. But £16.93 is 27 pence more than the difference between the two monthly 
payments. It appears that SW did in fact allocate £16.66 to Ms Ds account.
This evidence shows that Ms Ds pension plan shouldve had two additional payments of 
£566.67 allocated to it. Had these been allocated correctly, the correct total amount of 
£5,491.67 wouldve been applied. 
From what Ive seen, SWs tables showing how payments shouldve been collected, and 
how payments were actually collected and applied are correct. Therefore Im satisfied that 
SW can use these tables to ensure that Ms D is put back to the position she wouldve been 
in but for its errors. I agree with Ms D that SW should use these tables to ensure that she is 
put back into the position she would now be in if all contributions had been collected and 
invested when they shouldve been. 
However, as Ms D has explained that her employer has actually made the missing payments 
for March 2023 (which I understand to be £566.67) and April 2023 (which I understand to be 
£583.33) to her new provider, SWs proposed redress is no longer possible. 
I can see why SW considers that Ms Ds pension plan is only short by two payments of 
£566.67, or £1,133.34. This is because of the £16.93 payment it collected on 3 April 2023, 
£16.66 of which has already been allocated to Ms Ds pension plan. 
But I dont agree with SW that in deciding to pay the missing contributions to a new provider, 
Ms D has prevented it from putting things right in respect of these two payments. 
SW said that if it had received these two missing payments, it wouldve offered Ms D the best price deal so that she wasnt out of pocket. And Im of the view that it should still do this 
now.
I consider that as we know the amount (£566.67 and £583.33, or £1,150) of the contributions 
Ms Ds employer made to her new provider to replace the missing contributions with SW, 
and the date they were made  10 July 2023  theres enough information for SW to be able 
to calculate the investment return Ms D lost over the period when the payments shouldve 
been made and the date the replacement contribution actually hit her new pension plan. 
So I intend to ask SW to calculate what those two contributions wouldve been worth on 10 
July 2023 if theyd been correctly collected and applied on time  the notional value. If the 
notional value is more than the £1,150 actually applied to Ms Ds account with her new 
provider on 10 July 2023, SW should pay into Ms Ds pension the difference between the 
notional value and the contributions paid in on 10 July 2023. It should increase that amount 
in line with the change in value of the £1,150 contribution actually paid in on 10 July 2023 
between the date it was invested and the date of any final decision. It will need to ask Ms Ds 
new provider to confirm what this increase is. 
As I understand that Ms Ds employer paid a total of £1,150 into her account with her new 
provider on 10 July 2023, I agree with her that SW should refund her employer the £16.93 it 
took on 3 April 2023. I say this because Im of the view that Ms Ds employer has made a 
total payment of £1,150 in respect of the missing March and April 2023 contributions, rather 
than the £1, 133.34 SW considers it shouldve paid. As Ive seen no evidence that Ms Ds 
employer made a mistake here, I consider that its up to SW to correct this.
Regarding point 2
Ms D has a list of the corrections she wanted SW to make to her online portal. But SW said it 
needed a screenshot to confirm whatd gone wrong. 
Ive seen nothing which suggests that SWs list of contributions actually paid is inaccurate. 
So I can understand why SW needs further information from Ms D before it can work out 
what has gone wrong. However, if Ms D is able to provide evidence to disprove this, she 
should provide it. 
Regarding point 5
Ms D feels SW should refund her fees. SW doesnt agree as it said it carried out general 
servicing on her pension plans. 
I acknowledge that Ms D has experienced several service issues. So I can understand why 
shed like her fees to be refunded. But I agree with SW that it has continued to provide the 
general servicing which the fees covered. And that therefore it acted fairly when it charged 
those fees. 
SW also said that it has offered Ms D compensation for the poor service through distress 
and inconvenience payments. Ive gone on to consider those next.
Regarding point 6, about distress and inconvenience
Ms D said she doesnt feel that the £400 total compensation SW has paid her to date was 
adequate: to justify the stress, anxiety headache mental despair and time I have had to 
spend running around trying to deal with something only [SW] had control over. She felt that 
each of her complaints had been dealt with in isolation. And that SW hadnt recognised the 
embarrassment itd caused her with her employer. She also felt that shed spent almost a year trying to get SW to respond to her questions and to correct its mistakes. 
SW has paid Ms D the following compensation:
-£100 for the call wait times and the time itd taken to respond to Ms Ds request for 
information. 
-£50 for failing to send out the full pension information Ms D had requested. 
-£125 for taking an incorrect payment. And for the poor service Ms D had received. 
-£125 for taking further incorrect payments. And for the poor service Ms D had 
received. 
From everything Ive seen, I agree with Ms D that SW hasnt considered the full impact the 
series of errors and poor servicing has had on her. I can understand why this is the case  it 
has looked at each of her complaints as shes made them, without necessarily considering 
the wider picture. However, Im in a position to look at all of the complaints holistically. 
I consider that the errors have had a significant impact on Ms D for a prolonged period. As 
such, Im of the view that the £400 compensation SW has paid her so far isnt enough to 
reflect the distress, inconvenience and embarrassment shes suffered.
I intend to require SW to pay Ms D a further £350 in compensation to better reflect the 
impact its errors have had on her. I say this because I consider that SWs errors and poor 
service have clearly caused considerable distress and worry which has taken her a lot of 
effort to sort out over a long period. 
Response to my provisional decision
SW didnt consider that it should refund the £16.93 Id recommended to Ms Ds employer. It 
said this was taken to try to correct the direct debit payment increase from £566.67 to 
£583.33. And that if the direct debit should be restarted at a future date, refunding it could 
affect the accuracy of the next payment being collected. 
SW asked me to clarify exactly what I meant by my instruction to: Re-apply the contributions 
actually paid into the pension plan (excluding the £16.93 refund) on the dates that they 
should've been collected and invested, using SW's best price deal to ensure the re 
application of these payments don't financially disadvantage Ms D."
SW accepted the remaining part of my proposals to put things right, but said it would check 
that the proposals were possible first.
Ms D agreed with my proposed redress on the issues it covered. But she made the following 
additional points:
- She still didnt agree that SW should be charging her two fees for her two pensions
- She was concerned about how SW would facilitate my final decision. She felt that 
shed need a single senior point of contact at SW to address any issues and respond 
to any queries that may occur during the resolution. 
- She confirmed that SW had now reinstated her online access.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I start, Id like to extend my sympathy to Ms D for her recent loss. Im grateful that 
shes been able to provide additional comments under the circumstances. 
I acknowledge SWs point about refunding the £16.93 overpayment from the employer. But I 
dont agree. I say this because - as I explained in my provisional decision - Ms Ds employer 
has paid too much into her account with SW. And as Ive seen no evidence that Ms Ds 
employer made a mistake here, SW must correct this.
Regarding SWs request for clarification on the redress, I can confirm that I require it to re-
apply the contributions actually paid  that is, in line with the Whats been collected 
amounts, using the best price deal.
I acknowledge that Ms D still doesnt agree that SW should be charging her two separate 
fees for her two pensions. But I covered this point in my first provisional decision. And Ive 
nothing further to add. 
Ms D said that if I wasnt responsible for reviewing the actions Id recommended, shed want 
SW to assign a senior point of contact to address any issues.
Id like to confirm that my involvement in this complaint ceases as soon as I issue my final 
decision. Therefore I wont be responsible for reviewing the actions Ive told SW it must take. 
And while I understand why Ms D has made this request, I cant reasonably ask SW to do 
this. I dont have the power to tell it how to operate. Or to ask it to treat Ms D differently from 
anyone else. But I can require SW to apply 8% simple interest each year to any 
compensation if its paid more than 28 days after Ms D tells SW shes accepted my final 
decision. Given Ms Ds concern, Ive slightly amended my redress to include this interest. 
My recommended redress therefore differs slightly from that in my provisional decision for 
the following reasons:
- The addition of 8% each year simple interest to the compensation payment if it isnt 
made within 28 days of Ms Ds acceptance of my final decision.
- A further explanation of the redress. 
However, I dont consider that either of these points require me to issue an additional 
provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I require Scottish Widows Limited to take the following steps to put things right:
- Refund Ms Ds employer the £16.93 contribution taken in error.
- Re-apply the contributions actually paid  that is, in line with the Whats been 
collected amounts  into the pension plan (excluding the £16.93 refund) on the 
dates that they shouldve been collected and invested, using SWs best price deal to 
ensure the re-application of these payments dont financially disadvantage Ms D.
- Calculate what the March and April 2023 contributions wouldve been worth on 10 July 2023 if theyd been correctly collected and invested on time  the notional value. 
If the notional value is more than the £1,150 actually applied to Ms Ds account with 
her new provider on 10 July 2023, SW should pay into Ms Ds pension the difference 
between the notional value and the contributions paid in on 10 July 2023. It should 
increase that amount in line with the change in value of the £1,150 contribution 
actually paid in on 10 July 2023 between the date it was invested and the date of my 
final decision. It will need to ask Ms Ds new provider to confirm what this increase is. 
- The compensation amount should allow for the effect of charges and any available 
tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict 
with any existing protection or allowance.
- If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Ms D as a lump sum after making a notional 
reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
- If Ms D has remaining tax-free cash entitlement, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement 
 presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
- Pay Ms D a further £350 compensation for the distress, inconvenience and 
embarrassment it has caused her. 
- If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of SW receiving Ms Ds 
acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the 
rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
- Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If SW deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Ms D how much has been taken off. SW should give Ms D a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HMRC if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Ds complaint. Scottish Widows Limited must 
take the actions detailed in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman