DRN-3325511
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd will not refund a transaction she says she did not 
authorise. 
What happened
The events that unfolded are well known to the parties, so I wont detail them again here. 
Instead, Ill focus on the key points and reasoning behind my final decision. 
In summary, a £415 payment left Mrs Ms Monzo account on 20 May 2021. It went to 
Binance, an online cryptocurrency exchange. Shortly afterwards, Mrs M raised this as a 
fraudulent transaction, claiming that she didnt authorise the payment. She explained to 
Monzo that she had been contacted by what she thought was a cryptocurrency broker who 
claimed that bitcoin needed to be paid to her bank account, which she had acquired from a 
trading account she had previously held. This seemed legitimate and was very convincing. 
They knew some of her personal details and, although Mrs M was surprised with the windfall 
of cryptocurrency, she did have a trading account before which made it all possible. 
The fraudsters had convinced Mrs M to link her Monzo account to the account where her 
cryptocurrency possession was being held. To facilitate this, Mrs M revealed details about 
herself and her Monzo account. She also allowed remote access to her computer. 
Monzo investigated and declined to refund the payment, citing that it couldnt agree it was 
liable to reimburse Mrs M. It maintained this position when Mrs M raised a complaint. 
Unhappy with Monzos response, Mrs M brought the matter to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened and concluded that Monzo should reimburse      
Mrs Ms loss, which Mrs M agreed with. 
Monzo does not agree. Its raised counter arguments that it should not be responsible for 
Mrs Ms account losing this money. Including, that the bank was not the actual point of loss, 
considering the Binance account the payment went to was set up in Mrs Ms name. Because 
Monzo is not in agreement, the case has been escalated to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mrs M isnt liable for payments 
she didnt authorise, unless she failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep her personalised security details safe. 
Accordingly, Ive considered whether Mrs M authorised the payment  and so, whether she 
made the payment herself by carrying out all the agreed steps or whether she gave 
someone else permission to do this on her behalf.
Did Mrs M make the payment herself or give permission for it to be made?
We know Mrs Ms money went to Binance via an online card payment, so Ive reviewed what 
the agreed process was for this transaction to be made. Looking at Monzos website,       
Mrs Ms 16-digit card number, expiry date, and 3-digit CVC had to be input on Binances 
website. Her billing address was also needed. 
Its unclear how the fraudsters intercepted Mrs Ms personal information, such as her name 
and email address (which were needed to initially contact her). This may have been from a 
data leak caused by a prior purchase, or the previous trading account that she held before. 
Unfortunately, our service is aware of an array of different scams which involve a consumer 
being duped into believing they are speaking to a genuine firm or individual, on the basis that 
their personal information has somehow been captured and used to give a false sense of 
security. Such fraudulent methods can be referred to as phishing, which typically involves a 
fraudulent message (or email) being sent that is designed to trick an unwitting person into 
revealing sensitive information. As a bank that tackles all types of fraud for its consumers, 
Monzo will be familiar with this technique that fraudsters frequently employ. 
Suffice to say, its not uncommon for information to end up in the wrong hands. Im 
persuaded that this is what happened to Mrs M  her details and ownership of a previous 
trading account were used to reassure her that the party she had been contacted by was 
legitimate. Everything suggests Mrs M was targeted in order to reveal certain details to 
permit a payment to be instructed from her account.
By her own admission, this social engineering led to Mrs M passing certain information to the 
fraudsters; her card details included. The sophisticated methods used led to a host of 
information about Mrs M and her Monzo account being acquired. Indeed, this is reinforced 
by the fact that the fraudsters had sufficient information about Mrs M to take out 
unauthorised lending in her name (with other banks/credit providers, which is therefore not 
subject to this complaint). That so, I have little doubt the required information was within the 
scammers gift and was used to set up the payment to Binance. 
Whats more, Im satisfied the fraudsters had remote access to Mrs Ms computer at home, 
and Monzo has not presented a compelling argument to make me believe otherwise. Mrs M 
concedes that she granted this without appreciating the risk of doing so. Without a doubt, 
with the means to set up a card payment on a merchants website, and having created a 
scenario to gain access to Mrs Ms computer, it seems highly unlikely that the fraudsters 
would risk asking Mrs M to carry out the payment herself when inputting the requisite 
information on Binances website was possible without her knowledge. Clearly, involving   
Mrs M in this part of the payment process could have unnecessarily jeopardised the scam.  
Monzo has confirmed that once the payment was initiated, a feature of its security measures 
meant that this transaction needed to be authenticated by using the Monzo application on 
Mrs Ms mobile phone. Mrs Ms PIN, face ID, or fingerprint was needed to confirm the 
payment within the app before it would be let go. 
It's unclear exactly what happened in regards to this mobile app authentication. Mrs M has 
told our service she remembers divulging some sort of code  which might have been linked 
or produced by her phone. I accept her explanation that the distraction of her screen being 
controlled and the persuasive coaching of the fraudsters at the time meant she was 
absentminded when it came to the role the Monzo mobile app had. Ive also borne in mind 
that this mendacious scheme has strong similarities to lots of other scams our service has 
seen involving unauthorised payments, where consumers are made to be preoccupied and 
so do not appreciate the instructions a mobile banking app may give. In any event, even if Mrs M did take certain steps via her Monzo app, I am not persuaded 
that this means she authorised the payment. In keeping with the PSRs, under these 
circumstances Mrs M could only be fairly said to have authorised the payment if she 
consented to it. 
As far as I can tell, at no point did Mrs M understand that she was giving the means for a 
payment to go ahead. She didnt disclose her details and card information to make a 
payment. Conversely, everything she did was to receive a payment into her account. The 
purpose for giving her details and following the instruction of the fraudsters was to only link 
accounts together and not to transmit money away. I therefore cannot safely conclude that 
her actions amounted to giving her consent for this disputed transaction. 
So, overall, Im not persuaded that Mrs M took all of the agreed steps to make the payment 
herself nor did she give permission for someone else to on her behalf. It follows that I find 
this to be an unauthorised payment. 
Considering intent and gross negligence
Monzo could fairly hold Mrs M liable for an unauthorised payment if she failed with intent or 
gross negligence to comply with the terms of her account or keep her personalised security 
details safe. 
All things considered, Im not persuaded Mrs M intentionally failed to keep her details safe  
she genuinely believed what she was doing was enabling her to receive a windfall, by 
connecting her Monzo account to where the supposed cryptocurrency was being held. 
Im also not convinced Mrs M failed with gross negligence. She had held a trading account in 
recent months, which not everyone would have experienced. This made it possible for her to 
have prematurely closed her holdings without realising she had made a profit. Not least, 
given the speculative nature of the cryptocurrency market, where considerable earnings can 
be made in short spaces of time (and with no real exact science or methodology). 
I can see why this, together with her personal details being used in an introductory email, led 
her to believe she was talking to a credible party. Like most people, Mrs M is not an expert in 
cryptocurrency or particularly savvy with releasing investments. Without some sort of intel 
about her previous trading experience, I find it hard to see how else someone could use this 
fact to build trust. Especially, given the professional look of the email that was sent. 
So, when someone in a position to understand her (albeit limited) history of trading got in 
touch, equipped with some of her personal details, I can see why Mrs M believed she was 
talking to a legitimate outfit. 
Ive already concluded the fraudsters gained access to Mrs Ms computer. I have to bear in 
mind that Mrs M was, by her own admission, inexperienced with investing in cryptocurrency. 
Given the complexity of this investment arena, I can understand how the clever techniques 
of the fraudsters made her believe she needed to link a crypto account to a normal bank 
account, which would differ from a bank-to-bank payment. Consequently, I dont think Mrs M 
was significantly careless in allowing this to happen.
As Ive mentioned, its not clear exactly what security details Mrs M shared in respect of her 
mobile banking app with Monzo. However, even if she did share her PIN or confirm her 
identity via biometrics, Im not convinced this means she failed with gross negligence. Monzo may claim its unrealistic for a broker or representative of a cryptocurrency firm to ask 
for such steps to be taken. But this ignores the context of what happened  Mrs M believed 
she was talking with a trusted professional, one which had information about her prior 
trading that would otherwise be unexplained, and that was acting in her best interests by 
following the legal process of settling assets held in her name. In that light, I can see how 
someone might be duped into believing everything was above board and part of due 
process. 
Besides, mere negligence isnt the benchmark. What I need to consider is whether Mrs Ms 
actions fell so far below what a reasonable person wouldve done, to the extent that she 
failed with gross negligence. For the reasons Ive set out, I do not consider she did. 
Binance account
Finally, I turn to the submissions Monzo has made in respect of the Binance account being 
in Mrs Ms name. In summary, the bank claims that it should not be held liable for the 
payment because Mrs Ms loss occurred when the funds left the Binance account, and not 
her Monzo one. 
Theres no question the Binance account belonged to Mrs M. It is arguable that, strictly 
speaking, she still had possession of the £415 when it was held with Binance, before it was 
transferred away to an account owned by the fraudsters (which cannot be traced due to the 
nature of cryptocurrency). To that end, I can appreciate Monzos contention. 
Still, Ive determined that Mrs M did not knowingly make the payment, meaning that she 
would not have comprehended the whereabouts of her funds once they left Monzo. In 
practice, custody of the money only would remain with Mrs M if she was able to actually 
access it, i.e. by having the security credentials to get into her Binance account. Or, at the 
very least, understand where her money was. On both these fronts, Mrs M could not make 
sense of where or how to get to her stolen money. 
Moreover, I find the degree of control to be material to whether the funds were still within   
Mrs Ms gift, in between leaving her account with the bank and being irretrievably lost to the 
fraudsters. Ive already described the control the fraudsters had of Mrs Ms computer, armed 
with a host of her personal information and account details. Mrs M has always maintained 
that she didnt understand that the Binance account was opened, not to mention that it was 
created in her name. I find her version of events plausible and theres a lack of persuasive 
evidence to make me think that Mrs M realised that the Binance account was set up for 
money to be paid there from her Monzo account. 
According to Binances website, the verification of a new users identity requires documents 
and information in order to register a new account. Most (if not all) of this information Im 
satisfied the fraudsters possessed, and there appears to have been nothing Binance would 
have requested that required Mrs M to speak to them personally. Again, we know the 
fraudsters had enough to take out a loan in Mrs Ms name without her permission  which 
would be all that is required to also create a trading account. On top of that, the speed of the 
scam was swift, meaning that there was little chance for Mrs M to take stock of what was 
happening. 
Im therefore satisfied that Mrs M had no ability, or at least restricted ability, to access the 
funds in the Binance account. Although this intermediary account may have been in her 
name (and therefore strictly in her possession), because she was unaware of it and had no 
access to the login credentials, its unfair to find that it was Mrs Ms action or inaction that 
was the true cause of her loss. In other words, because Im persuaded Mrs M could not access the funds with Binance 
before it was too late, I cannot reasonably say she carried out the independent act of 
sending money onwards to the fraudsters. Because of this, I do not find it fair for the 
presence of the Binance account to strip away Monzos liability for Mrs Ms loss. 
It follows Mrs M isnt liable for the transaction and Monzo need to put things right  by 
refunding her losses from this unauthorised transaction alongside interest to compensate her 
for the time shes been out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and I require 
Monzo Bank Ltd to: 
Pay Mrs M the total of the unauthorised transaction (£415) less any amount already 
returned.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman