DRN-3784390
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Sainsbury's Bank Plc declined to refund her after she was charged 
for manually checking in and overweight baggage at the airport. This was when flying home 
from a family holiday. 
What happened
 Miss B and her family were flying home with an airline I shall call T. This was on 3 
September 2021. Miss B says she had checked everyone in via Ts app and had all the 
boarding passes ready to show at the airport. 
However, when she arrived at Ts check in desk, Miss B says she was told by T that her and 
her family had not checked in and would therefore need to pay €55 per passenger. Miss B 
disputed this, but says she was ultimately told that if she didnt pay the €275 total fee, then 
her and her family wouldnt be allowed to board the plane. Miss B therefore paid this. Miss B 
was also charged €59 for her luggage being overweight, which she didnt believe was true. 
Miss B says she had less items packed than when she left the UK, and her luggage wasnt 
overweight then. 
Miss B contacted Sainsbury's Bank Plc and raised a dispute for the two transactions. These 
had debited her account as £236.62 and £51.62 respectively. Sainsbury's Bank Plc raised a 
chargeback. T defended the chargebacks and said it had charged the check in fee as Miss B 
hadnt checked in within two hours of the departure time. T also explained that Miss B had 
paid to add checked baggage and that the service had been provided. 
Sainsbury's Bank Plc asked Miss B for further evidence to support her claim and upon 
receiving this, pursued the chargebacks further. However, T again defended its position and 
said the transactions were authorised by Miss B and T had fulfilled its terms and conditions 
which Miss B had accepted. Sainsbury's Bank Plc therefore said it couldnt help further with 
the chargebacks. It also advised it couldnt assist via section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (s.75), as the value of the services paid for didnt meet the monetary limits required for 
a claim to be pursued via that way. 
Miss B didnt agree and brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator considered 
the complaint and concluded that Sainsbury's Bank Plc should have pursued the chargeback 
for the manual check in fee further. She said that had Sainsbury's Bank Plc done so, there 
was a good chance the chargeback would have been successful based on the evidence and 
the defence T had put forward. 
The investigator agreed the dispute for the overweight luggage was correctly declined and 
Sainsbury's Bank Plc didnt need to take further action regarding this. The investigator also 
agreed with Sainsbury's Bank Plcs position regarding s.75.
This meant the investigator upheld the complaint and recommended Sainsbury's Bank Plc 
refund Miss B £236.62 plus 8% simple interest, from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement. Miss B agreed with this outcome.
Sainsbury's Bank Plc didnt agree and said the boarding passes likely didnt show when Miss 
B checked in and no supporting evidence to confirm when she checked in, has been 
provided. Therefore, Sainsbury's Bank Plc said it is more persuaded that Miss B checked in 
late, and the boarding passes she has provided became available on the app, after the 
manual check in at the airport.
I previously issued a provisional decision on this case. I wanted to give both parties the 
opportunity to respond with any additional comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I came to my final decision on the matter.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
Sainsbury's Bank Plc initially looked to see if it could assist Miss B in retrieving a refund via 
the chargeback process. Chargeback is the process by which settlement disputes are 
resolved between card issuers and merchants, under the relevant card scheme. For Miss 
Bs credit card, the relevant card scheme is MasterCard. 
A consumer is not entitled to chargeback by right. But where there are grounds to raise one 
and it has a reasonable prospect of success, it is good practice for one to be raised by the 
card issuer. Once a refund is requested by a consumer the card issuer will usually look at 
the card scheme rules to see if the nature of the dispute is covered under the list of possible 
chargeback reasons
As explained above, our investigator concluded that the chargeback for Miss Bs manual 
check in fees should have been pursued by Sainsbury's Bank Plc as she believed it had 
grounds for success. Before looking into this, Ive first considered whether there is a 
chargeback reason that covers disputes such as this in the MasterCard scheme rules. 
Having done so, I dont believe there is. 
Miss B is disputing two transactions for fees that she had to pay at the airport to fly home. 
These are separate transactions to her original booking. To dispute the payments with T, 
Sainsbury's Bank Plc used the dispute code goods or services not as described.  
I dont think this dispute code is relevant here as the separate services Miss B received were 
as described. Miss B paid for the manual check in and overweight luggage and got that 
service. The service was fully provided, and the payments were also authorised. 
Here the issue appears to be that Miss B isnt disputing she received the services she had to 
pay for, but that she should never have had to have paid the fees in the first place. However, 
having considered the Mastercard scheme rules in full, Im satisfied there isnt any valid 
chargeback reason codes that covers the nature of Miss Bs dispute. 
Therefore, had Sainsbury's Bank Plc pursued the chargeback further, it would have 
ultimately been unsuccessful. This is regardless of what reason code Sainsbury's Bank Plc 
used. This wouldve been the situation for both the check in and overweight baggage fees 
paid by Miss B. 
Given I dont think Sainsbury's Bank Plc acted unfairly in not refunding Miss B via 
chargeback, I have considered the s.75 position. Sainsbury's Bank Plc said in this case a 
s.75 claim isnt valid due to the value of the services paid for. As the investigator explained, 
there are certain criteria that needs to be met for s.75 to apply. One of these is that the claim 
must relate to a single item that costs more than £100 and no more than £30,000. The overweight luggage charge was £51.62 and therefore clearly below £100. The total cost 
for the manual check in fees was £236.62. However, this is for five separate fees for all 
parties that were travelling. Therefore, the single item limit would be £47.32 which is again 
below the £100 monetary limit required for a valid s.75 claim. Given this, Sainsbury's Bank 
Plc was correct when it advised Miss B it couldnt take a s.75 claim forward for her.
Both Miss B and Sainsburys Bank Plc replied to the provisional decision. Sainsburys bank 
Plc said it agreed Miss B didnt have chargeback or s.75 rights and therefore had nothing 
further to add. Miss B expressed her disappointment with the outcome but didnt add 
anything more. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss Bs disappointment, but as neither party has provided any further 
information to alter my opinion of this complaint, I see no reason to depart from the finding in 
my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman