DRN-1920765
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a joint 
mortgage in 1996. Mrs and Mr M say Santander UK plc, trading at the time as Alliance & 
Leicester, mis-sold this cover to them.
Ill refer mainly to Santander for consistency.
Background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this case and said we ought to uphold the complaint. 
Santander disagrees and has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Im upholding the 
complaint.
The crux of this matter is the nature of Mr Ms employment. Santander sold the PPI in 
respect of Mr M only and had a duty to clearly describe the main features of the policy. As it 
also advised Mrs and Mr M during the course of the sale, it had an additional duty to make 
sure the PPI was suitable for their particular situation.
I dont think the policy was suitable. 
Looking at the policy rules there were obvious complexities relating to certain contract 
workers. I very much doubt this was explained during the sale; theres no evidence that it 
was and the references to PPI on the mortgage application form seem very brief.
I also think that if this aspect had been pointed out, Mrs and Mr M would have thought the 
policy wasnt right for them. The rules said that making a claim for unemployment after a 
specific work contract had ended wasnt possible. And as Mr M was a self-employed 
contract worker, in an industry well-known for using contractors, Santander should have 
brought this to Mrs and Mr Ms attention, before recommending it to them.
In replying to what our adjudicator said, Santander makes several assumptions about the 
type of work Mr M did. But as it asked only brief questions about his job at the time of the 
actual sale, I cant see how Santander can say he would have been able to make a 
successful claim. The evidence points the other way.
In short, it points strongly to Mr M being sold cover that contained significant exclusions 
related to the type of work he did, which he disclosed on the mortgage application. These 
policy exclusions were most likely not pointed out by the adviser at the time of the sale. As 
the policy wasnt suitable for Mr M, I think he and Mrs M would have considered it to be a 
waste of money. I think they would have come to the obvious conclusion that it didnt fit their 
circumstances and so they wouldnt have gone ahead and bought it.
The PPI was mis-sold to Mrs and Mr M.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mrs and Mr M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. It should:
Pay Mrs and Mr M the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until they get it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% .
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
and Mrs M got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mrs and Mr M a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs and Mr Ms complaint and I direct Santander UK plc to pay the compensation 
as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman