DRN-4003178
The complaint
Mrs F complains that she was mis-sold a credit card agreement provided by Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF); that BPF didnt deal 
fairly with the claim she had made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in relation to 
her purchase of holiday products and it had failed to check if she could afford the finance.
Mrs F is represented by a claims management company, but Ill refer to anything thats been
said on her behalf as if Mrs F had said it herself.
What happened
Both Mrs F and her husband, Mr F, had raised complaints about purchases theyd made of
timeshare holiday products from a third-party company which were financed by credit
agreements with BPF.
However, in respect of Mr Fs complaint, which concerned a purchase that had occurred in
2012, BPF had subsequently upheld his claim. It provided redress that he accepted. So, only
Mrs Fs complaint is being considered here.
In November 2008 Mrs F purchased six holiday timeshare units and paid for these units
using finance provided by BPF. Mrs F says the purpose of this purchase was as an
investment only and she didnt intend to make use of any of the units herself by holidaying in
them. She says that the units were supposed to provide an income to subsidise her pension.
In 2009 Mrs F decided to use a lump sum cash payment she had received as part of a
retirement package to pay off the finance agreement that had been provided by BPF.
Mrs F says that after around three years, in 2011, it became clear that she wasnt going to
see a return from the alleged investment made in 2008. She therefore decided to use the
units in part-exchange for a different timeshare membership which she intended to make use
of for holidays.
Mrs F complained to BPF about the purchase in 2008  saying there had been a breach of
contract as the timeshare units werent an investment and had never produced an income;
that she had been subjected to an aggressive style of selling; that no affordability or due
diligence checks had been undertaken; that the selling agent hadnt been regulated and she
hadnt been advised about a cancellation period or given her cancellation rights.
Mrs F also complained about the purchase of the new timeshare product she had bought in
2011. She said she had financed that via the units she had purchased in 2008 rather than by
credit provided by BPF.
Mrs F complained to this service, but our investigator didnt recommend her complaint
should be upheld. He said he didnt think BPF had treated Mrs F unfairly.
Our investigator thought that Mrs Fs complaint about the investment potential of the
purchase in 2008 was one of misrepresentation rather than a breach of contract, as losing
out on an investment didnt amount to a breach of an express or implied term in the
purchase agreement. He also said that he didnt think BPF would be liable for any claims in
relation to the purchase in 2011 as BPF hadnt provided Mrs F with any finance to pay for it.
Our investigator said that, looking at the time-limits under the Limitation Act 1980 that
applied to making a claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974, he was satisfied that Mrs Fs
claims, insofar as they related to the purchase in 2008, were out of time. He also said he
thought the £350 compensation offered by BPF for initially indicating it would settle Mrs Fs
claim was fair.
Mrs F disagreed with our investigators view. She said she wasnt raising misrepresentation
in respect of the purchase in 2008. She said that, having now lost her investment, her
retirement income was lower than she had originally planned.
As the parties werent able to reach an agreement, the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
When looking at complaints, I must take account of law and regulations, regulators rules, 
guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice.
Mrs F had raised a number of issues about the credit agreement she had taken out in 2008. 
The substance of her complaint related to matters under section 75 and 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. But due to the amount of time that had passed since Mrs F had 
made this purchase in 2008, I had needed to consider whether the Limitation Act 1980 gave 
BPF a defence to such claims when determining whether BPF had treated Mrs Fs claims 
fairly and reasonably.
Mrs Fs Section 75 Claim
Section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act sets out that a consumer who has a claim for
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions,
bring that claim against a credit provider. Those conditions include that the goods or services
bought cost more than £100 and less than £30,000 and that the credit financed the contract
giving rise to the claim, either in whole or in part.
Here, Mrs F said that there had been a breach of contract because she had made the 
purchase in 2008 as an investment, but the units hadnt then provided her with an income as 
she had been told they would. She said it was the lack of the units generating any funds to 
supplement her income which had led to the decision to use them in part-exchange for a 
different timeshare product in 2011.
The time-limit for a breach of contract claim is set out in section 5 of the Limitation Act 1980
and states an action found on simple contract shall not be brought after the expiration of six
years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So, if a claim was brought after 
this time-limit had expired then BPF had been provided with a defence to that claim.
If it was a term of the contract that the timeshare units would be an investment and generate
an income for Mrs F, then such a term might have been breached when that didnt happen.
The only evidence Id seen that suggests there had been a breach of contract was Mrs Fs
allegation. And if she was right to say there had been a breach of contract (I wasnt 
persuaded that she was), in the absence of evidence to the contrary, it seemed to me that 
she was likely to have had until 2017 at the latest to make such a claim against BPF. As she 
didnt do so until 2020, I thought BPF would have had a complete defence to such a claim 
anyway.
However, I thought it was unlikely that the timeshare units being an investment would have been a term of the contract. I thought it was more likely than not that there had been a 
discussion with Mrs F and the selling agent about possible income if she purchased these 
units. So, I thought Mrs F could have made a claim to the holiday company or BPF about 
any misrepresentations that had induced her into buying the six timeshare units in 2008.
But there is also a time limit for a misrepresentation claim (whether under section 2 or
section 9 of the Limitation Act) and this limit is six years from the date on which the cause of
action accrued (which is when everything needed to make a claim had occurred). Mrs F had
suffered a loss at the point she had entered into an agreement based on an alleged
misrepresentation, so her cause of action arose in November 2008, at the point she had
signed the credit agreement. Mrs F would have had six years from then to bring a
misrepresentation claim against either the holiday company or BPF. As set out above, no
claim had been made to BPF until 2020, around nine years later, which was outside of the 
time limits set out in the Limitation Act.
Id seen that Mrs F had said that she had only recently become aware that she could make a 
claim to BPF but when she had the knowledge to bring a claim doesnt assist her for the 
purposes of the Limitation Act. Although section 14 refers to date of knowledge that 
particular section didnt apply here as it relates to negligence actions. So, I considered that 
claims under section 75 for either breach of contract or misrepresentation were likely to be 
out of time under the Limitation act 1980.
Mrs Fs Section 140A Claim
Mrs F said she thought she had been subject to an aggressive selling technique by the
supplier. Such an allegation doesnt amount to either a misrepresentation or breach of
contract claim under Section 75. But it was relevant to an assessment of unfairness under
Section 140A of the CCA. And as that provision was relevant law, I considered it.
However, under Section 140A, the limitation period runs from when the allegedly unfair
debtor-creditor relationship ended  which, given the facts of this complaint, was the date
that the credit card agreement had ended. As the limitation period was six years, and as Mrs 
Fs credit agreement had ended in May 2009 when she had cleared the balance and the 
account was closed, she had until May 2015 to make a claim under Section 140A. As Mrs F 
hadnt made a claim to BPF until 2020, that was outside of the time limits set out in the 
Limitation Act. This meant any claim under section 140A was also now likely to be out time 
barred.
Mrs F had also raised that she had never been advised about her cancellation rights but 
looking at the agreement I could see these had been clearly set out and that Mrs F had 
signed it. I couldnt reasonably say that her cancellation rights hadnt been provided to her.
The Lending Decision
Mrs F said that there was no assessment or due diligence checks made by BPF as to
whether the credit agreement was affordable for her in 2008. However, even if I were to find
that BPF had failed to do everything it should have when it agreed to lend (and I made no 
such finding), Id have to be satisfied that the lending had been unaffordable for Mrs F, 
before also concluding that she had lost out as a result. As I hadnt seen anything to 
persuade me that this had been the case at the time of sale, I didnt think this was a reason 
to uphold this complaint given its circumstances.
The selling agent was unregulated
I was satisfied that the selling agent was regulated at the time Mrs F entered into the creditagreement in 2008  such that the credit agreement was enforceable. However, if Mrs F had
evidence that contradicted that, I would of course have been happy to review it before 
reaching my final decision.
Mrs F although agreeing that the timeframe for a claim under section 75 has lapsed, 
disagrees that the sales agent was regulated. Mrs F says she was provided with the credit 
card agreement by a representative of the holiday operator and wasnt provided it directly by 
BPF. Mrs F also says she was told this was the only finance available for the purchase. She 
also says that it wasnt until 2020 that she became aware that the sales representative was 
not regulated.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mrs F, I havent changed my mind. Ive 
seen that Mrs F accepts my provisional view in respect of the applicable time limit to bring a 
claim under section 75, and although she hasnt specifically agreed in respect of a claim 
under section 140A she hasnt raised any opposing views to what I have said. I still think 
claims under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act are now likely to be time 
barred.
In her reply to my provisional decision, Mrs F has raised that she wasnt offered an 
alternative credit product to make the purchase in 2008 and that the agreement was 
presented to her at the end of a sales presentation. I think these are matters which would 
potentially fall under section 140A and so, as explained, are likely to now be outside of the 
time limit of raising such a claim.
Mrs F says that the selling agent was unregulated as they were an employee of the holiday 
operator, and the credit agreement wasnt provided directly from BPF. While I accept there 
was a credit intermediary, I am also satisfied that the selling agent was regulated at the time 
such that the credit agreement was enforceable. I havent seen any evidence that would 
support this wasnt the case.  
My final decision
So, for the reasons set above Im not upholding Mrs Fs complaint. I think Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance is likely to have a defence to 
claims under Sections 75 and 140A. I also think that in regard to its decision to lend to Mrs 
F, that it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
However, I appreciate Mrs F would have been distressed on learning that Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance was not upholding her
complaint having originally indicated that it would. Ive seen that it has already made
an offer to pay her £350 as compensation for this error. Mrs F should contact Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance directly if she now wishes to 
accept this and hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman