DRN-3216251
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc changed his account to one that included a 
fee-paying Tech Pack without his consent in January 2017.
Mr J says that he was never informed that his account had been changed and says that he 
was not eligible for the insurance features on the Pack as he was living abroad.
What happened
Barclays did not think it had acted unfairly when Mr Js account was changed to include the 
Tech Pack. But it did acknowledge that it shouldve removed the Pack from Mr Js account 
when he updated his address to an overseas address in July 2020. So it refunded the Pack 
fees that Mr J had paid since August 2020. 
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that Barclays needed to 
do anything more than what itd offered to do, to put matters right.
Mr J disagreed and asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman. This decision 
will consider the amount Barclays has refunded is reasonable, or whether further refunds are 
warranted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I 
dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Before Mr Js account was changed to include a Tech Pack, Mr J held a fee-paying 
Additions packaged bank account. Barclays decided to withdraw this account from its range 
of packaged accounts and transferred all Additions accounts, including Mr Js, to a fee-free 
account with a fee-paying Tech Pack included, but gave account holders the choice to opt 
out of the Pack, should they no longer need the cover it provided.
As this change to the account was not a further sale of a packaged account, Barclays didnt 
need to get Mr Js agreement before making this change. What Barclays did have to do 
however, was to notify Mr J about the upcoming changes to his account, to provide him with 
the opportunity to opt out of the Tech Pack, if he didnt want it to be added to his account.
Barclays says that in September 2016, it wrote to Mr J to say that the Additions account was 
being removed from its range of packaged accounts and that Mr Js account would be 
changed to a Barclays Bank Account with Tech pack - for a reduced monthly fee of £9.50 
per month. Barclays says it sent a follow up letter to Mr J in January 2017 to confirm that his 
account had changed. Ive seen a copy of these letters and Im satisfied that they were sent.
Mr J says he didnt receive these letters as he says he moved abroad in December 2014. Mr 
J says he told Barclays that he was moving to live abroad, but did not know what his address 
would be until he moved out there. 
Having looked through Barclays records, I cant see that Mr J updated his address with 
Barclays once hed settled overseas. As such, I cant hold Barclays responsible for Mr J not 
receiving these letters, as it seems the only reason why he didnt receive them was because 
he didnt provide Barclays with his new address. Alternatively, if it was the case that Mr J 
didnt change his registered address because he had someone to receive any mail sent to 
the UK address (I understand a close relative lived there), again I cant hold Barclays 
responsible if that person then didnt inform Mr J about the letters that Barclays were 
sending him about his account. 
Furthermore, Barclays records dont indicate that mail sent to Mr Js previous UK address 
was being returned undelivered. So I dont think that Barclays had any reasonable grounds 
to believe that Mr J was not receiving the letters being sent to the address it had registered 
for him.
Mr J has said that he opted to go paperless, when he moved overseas, and so expected to 
receive everything by email. Mr J says he never received any emails about the migration of 
his account to a fee-free current account that included a Tech Pack. 
Barclays says that not everything will have been emailed to Mr J, as some letters are 
required to be sent by post. And Mr J has provided us with a copy of an email hed received 
from Barclays which explained that point to him. So I think he was aware that, as hed not 
updated his address with Barclays, there was a possibility that Barclays might send mail to 
the UK address it had registered for him.
However, in relation to the migration letters, Barclays has provided evidence to show that as 
well as sending Mr J the letters, it also uploaded a digital copy of the letters to Mr Js online 
banking profile. So these wouldve been available for Mr J to see via online banking, which I 
can see he had access to and occasionally used. 
Mr J has said that he is unaware of Barclays Cloudit online document storage area. But Mr 
J has provided us with a copy of an email that Barclays had sent to him which explained that 
a digital copy of letters could be accessed through Cloudit if he used Barclays banking app. 
Or if he accessed his account via online banking i.e. not through the app, a digital copy of 
letters sent to him could be found under the My Barclays Documents section of the website. 
So Im satisfied that Mr J had been made aware where he could find copies of any letters 
thatd been sent to him.
In addition to the above, I can see that further reminders (annual eligibility statements) were 
sent to Mr J every year since 2017  albeit to the UK address. These reminded Mr J that 
only UK residents were eligible for the insurance features of the Tech Pack, and invited him 
to get in contact if he was no longer eligible. 
So taking everything into account, I think Barclays took reasonable steps to ensure that Mr J 
was informed about migration of his account i.e. the change from a fee-paying Additions 
account to a fee-free account with the Tech Pack added. And I think Barclays took 
reasonable steps to remind Mr J of the eligibility criteria on the Tech Pack insurance features 
in the years since the migration took place too.
Therefore, having reviewed everything that has been provided, Im unable to say that 
Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably with regards to Mr Js Tech Pack. Therefore, in 
the circumstances, I think that Barclays offer, to only refund the Pack fees Mr J paid since 
he provided Barclays with his overseas address, was reasonable.My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not think that Barclays Bank UK Plc needs to do 
anything more than what it has already agreed to do, to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman