DRN-3369101
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with Shawbrook Bank Limiteds response to his complaint following the 
rejection of his claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) for some 
allegedly mis-sold solar panels.
What happened
The parties are familiar with the background to this complaint. So, I dont intend to set it out 
in detail. But in summary, Mr T bought a solar panel system from a supplier, which Ill call P, 
in January 2016. Mr T says he was told by Ps salesman that the panels would be self-
funding and that the loan he took from Shawbrook to pay for them ultimately wouldnt cost 
him anything.
Mr Ts unhappy that the savings and income from the panels hasnt been as much as he 
thought it would be. He thinks that the benefits were misrepresented to him and says that if 
hed known the panels may not pay the costs of the loan for 17 years, hed never have 
bought them.
Shawbrook didnt agree that the benefits of the panels had been misrepresented to Mr T. So, 
it didnt uphold his complaint. It did, however, apologise for the time it had taken to deal with 
his complaint and offered Mr T £200 for the distress and inconvenience this will have caused 
him.
Unhappy with Shawbrooks response, Mr T came to this Service. Our investigator reviewed 
the paperwork Mr T had been provided at the time of the sale. This showed that for the first 
11 years, the monthly cost of the loan wouldnt be paid in full from the benefits of the panels. 
After that, P had predicted that the panels should ultimately pay for themselves by year 17. 
So, whilst he understood that Mr T had thought the benefits would be more than this, he 
didnt think there had been a misrepresentation as the paperwork was clear. He did, 
however, note that P had used some slightly incorrect inflation figures in the quotation, and 
he recommended that Shawbrook refund the difference these would make to the 
calculations - £590.73.
Shawbrook agreed to this but Mr T didnt. So, the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, but I agree with our investigator, for substantially the same 
reasons, that the evidence doesnt indicate that there has been a misrepresentation here, 
other than for the inflation rate. 
I wont set out all the detail of the quotation here again as our investigator has included that 
in his opinion. But the crux of this complaint is that Mr T says that he was told that the panels 
would pay for themselves from the Feed-in-Tariff (FIT), export payments and electricity 
savings. And I think they will.
Mr T has told us that he felt pressured into agreeing to the sale. He says that Ps 
salesperson told him that he would end up making a profit and that it was a no brainer due 
to the profit he would make.
I can completely appreciate why Mr T is unhappy. He thought that the panels would pay for 
themselves much quicker than they will. But for me to hold Shawbrook responsible for this, I 
would have to find that P had misrepresented the benefits of the panels to Mr T when they 
were sold to him. And Im afraid that the evidence doesnt show that it did. Mr T has not said 
that he was given any specific timeframe over which the panels would be self-funding. And 
the calculations do indicate that the panels will likely pay for themselves over 17 years. So, 
he should ultimately make a profit as the panels should last for at least 25 years.
Our investigator has set out for Mr T the various parts of the quotation that show that the 
panels will not be self-funding from the start, but that the benefits will increase over time, as 
the cost of electricity was expected to rise. Theres a table in the quotation which directly 
compares the cost of the loan against the expected benefits. And this shows that the 
benefits of the panels werent expected to exceed the monthly loan cost until year 11. The 
total loan cost, including interest, was then predicted to be repaid from the benefits after 
about 17 years. I consider these statements to have been clear.
Shawbrook accepts that it is equally responsible with P under Section 75 of the Act if there 
were any misrepresentations made. But given the contents of the quotation, I havent found 
that there were misrepresentations here. I do however agree that the Retail Price Index 
(RPI) and the Electricity Price Rise (EPR) inflation figures were overstated. Shawbrook has 
calculated that over the term of the loan, this will have meant the performance estimates Mr 
T was given will be out by £590.73. So, I will be requiring that Shawbrook pay that amount to 
Mr T as it has offered to do.
Ive also considered how Mr Ts system has in fact performed to date and is likely to 
continue to perform. Ive seen a summary of Mr Ts FIT income, which includes the electricity 
generated by his solar panel system. 
P estimated that the system would generate 2,260 kWh a year. By my calculations, taking an 
average of the performance over the first 3 years or so, it produced about 2,351 kWh a year. 
And the average FIT and export payments that Mr T received have been £354 a year, 
against Ps estimate of £326. So, the system does appear to have performed in accordance 
with Ps estimation. And theres no reason why it shouldnt continue to do so. I cant 
therefore say that Mr T is likely to lose out.
Ive also had a look at Mr Ts electricity bills. Its difficult to compare these accurately as the 
unit costs of electricity has changed over time. And customers will generally use different 
amounts of electricity each year. Mr Ts calculated that he has only made a saving of £11 a 
month (or £132 a year) since the panels were fitted. My calculations come to a bit more than 
that, at around £272 a year for the first year after the panels were installed. I think the 
difference in our figures is because Mr T didnt include the standing charge in his 
calculations and may also be because he did his figures over a longer period - over which 
time electricity prices will have increased. P estimated savings in Year 1 of around £240. So, 
it does appear that its estimate was quite accurate.
The difficulty with predicting the performance of solar panel systems is that the assumptions 
made dont always turn out to be correct. But that doesnt mean that there was a misrepresentation, just because the income isnt quite as expected. For the first few years 
that Mr T had these panels, electricity prices didnt go up by quite as much as had been 
predicted from the historic data. So thats probably why Mr T hasnt seen quite as much in 
savings as he expected. But I cant hold Shawbrook responsible for that, as the assumptions 
P used werent unreasonable when it made them.
I expect that Mr T will be aware that electricity costs have recently increased quite 
significantly. And from April this year, the unit cost, under the energy price cap, will be 
around 28 pence per kWh. So, if Mr T is using most of the electricity generated from his 
panels, the savings he gets may well be a lot greater than he has seen so far. Of course, its 
not possible to accurately predict what energy prices may do going forward. But Mr T may 
well find that his panels become more beneficial as time goes on - if prices are to continue to 
remain high and increase along the lines that P predicted.
Shawbrook has offered to pay Mr T £200 compensation for the time that it took to deal with 
this complaint. I consider this amounts to fair compensation for the upset and inconvenience 
this will have caused him.
So, in summary, I havent found that there was any misrepresentation here for which I can 
hold Shawbrook responsible, other than for the incorrect inflation figures. And Ive found no 
other reason why Shawbrook needs to compensate Mr T.  
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. I require that Shawbrook Bank Limited:
Pay Mr T £590.73 for the incorrect inflation figures used in the quote; and 
Pay Mr T £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman