DRN-3817370
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt reimbursed them for payments 
they made to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A invested with a firm between May and December. Mr A sent two payments 
early on in the scam and then five further payments in December, which he understood went 
towards shares. The following January Mr A was expecting to receive proceeds from the 
sale of his shares, but he didnt receive any funds. This is when he discovered hed been the 
victim of a scam.
He contacted HSBC to try and recover his funds, but HSBC wasnt able to do so. The 
payments in December were all sent to an international bank and while it contacted this 
bank, no funds could be recovered.
It also said that Mr A had been the victim of another investment scam around the time he 
began this investment. Mr A realised hed been scammed by the other firm in the Summer 
and contacted HSBC. It provided him with a scam warning and information on how 
investment firms trading in the UK should act. As this was after hed initially invested in this 
scam, but months before he sent the December payments, it didnt consider he was due a 
refund. It felt he had enough information to realise this opportunity was also a scam and so 
couldve prevented the majority of his losses. And that it repeating this information again 
therefore wouldnt have made a difference, as he hadnt felt concerned about this investment 
despite the warnings.
Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to our service. They disagreed with HSBC. Mr A said 
that HSBC had failed in its duty to protect him from fraud and discussed a code and rules 
that apply to a different type of payment to what he made here. Our investigator didnt 
uphold their case, so its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has said that if HSBC had called him about this investment, he wouldnt have invested 
further into this scam. But HSBC doesnt have to call about every transaction a customer 
makes, so in order for it to have this duty (and so to have failed in it) there needs to be 
something about the payments that ought to cause concern. I cant agree that the first two 
payments Mr A made as part of this scam were unusual or uncharacteristic for him. He was 
sending much higher payments from his account to other firms around this time and so these 
payments wouldnt stand out. However I accept that the first payment he then made in 
December was more unusual for his and Mrs As account usage. It was a large international 
payment after a period of time in which more low-level payments had left the account, and 
the highest value of these were transfers between Mr and Mrs As bank accounts, not 
payments out to other parties.
Mr A has said that if HSBC had contacted him in December about the higher value 
payments he was making and given him a scam warning he wouldve stopped investing and 
the scam wouldve been unravelled. I have to decide what I think is most likely and, in this 
case, Im not persuaded that is what wouldve happened.
Mr A was involved in another scam when he first invested with this scam. This was 
uncovered and he was given detailed information by HSBC about investment scams and 
how to protect himself in the future. But he didnt alert them to his other investment at that 
time, or apply this knowledge to that investment himself. I cant see theres specific 
information on the scam Mr A was involved in that HSBC couldve found in December to 
show or prove to Mr A that this was definitely a scam investment. So what it could provide to 
him was a general scam warning, which as above, it had already done while he was 
investing with this firm. And yet that made no difference at the time.
Mr A has said he wouldnt have declined professional advice, but HSBC wouldnt have 
been able to advise him. Its not able to give investment advice or suggest to someone 
whether or not they should continue to invest with a firm. I cant see that there was anything 
particularly suspicious about the firm in December that means HSBC wouldve been able to 
give a more specific warning to Mr A than it gave him about scams in the Summer. And Mr A 
has set out how and why he was convinced the investment was genuine, so this is also 
information he wouldve shared with HSBC and so I think its most likely that he still wouldve 
gone ahead with these payments.
I accept HSBC has done what is required of it in relation to trying to recover Mr and Mrs As 
funds. It contacted the beneficiary banks and attempted to recover any funds left in the 
accounts, but it wasnt able to do so. Mr A has said that his concern is primarily with the 
December payments and that hed accept the loss of the first two payments. Hes quoted a 
voluntary code HSBC signed up to which covers reimbursement for fraud victims in certain 
situations. But as Mr A sent international payments in December, these are excluded from 
the reimbursement code hes referenced, so HSBC doesnt have any obligation to reimburse 
him under this.
I accept Mr and Mrs A have lost a large amount of money to this scam. But Im not 
persuaded that an intervention by HSBC wouldve been enough to stop Mr A going ahead 
with the investment in this case. By the time HSBC ought to have intervened Mr A had 
invested for a period of time and had received a scam warning from HSBC about another 
investment he was involved with, but this didnt stop him continuing with this investment. So 
it follows that Im not asking HSBC to reimburse him for any of the amounts hes lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman