DRN-3948852
The complaint
Mrs M, as the executor of the estate of Mr M, complains on behalf of the estate that Fortrade 
Limited wrongly allowed Mr M to trade Contracts for Differences (CFDs) through the 
execution only account it opened for him.
What happened
In December 2017 Mr M applied for an execution account with Fortrade so that he could 
trade CFDs which it opened based on the information he provided about his past trading 
experience. He traded CFDs between December 2017 and December 2019 during which 
time he paid a total of $102,934 into his account. Mr M died in December 2019, at which 
point he had withdrawn a total of $30,036 from his account and had suffered a loss of 
around $72,898.
Mrs M complained that Fortrade should not have allowed Mr M to trade CFDs because he 
was doing so to fund a kidney transplant and it was aware that he was on dialysis. She also 
raised issues about the sales tactics used to persuade Mr M to open his account and argued 
that the account wasnt suitable for him and that he was allowed to fund his account both 
from savings and credit cards. 
Fortrade didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said that it had no reason to reject or 
restrict Mr Ms account based on the information he provided on account opening  which 
included that he had traded CFDs daily for one to two years and had accounts with other 
brokers. It said Mr M didnt seem vulnerable and his medical conditions didnt appear to 
affect his trading and the first time there was mention of him using money from his trading to 
fund medical treatment was in February 2019.
Mrs M referred her complaint to us and it was considered by one of our investigators who 
upheld it in part. He didnt think Fortrade had done anything wrong in opening the account 
based on the information Mr M had provided to and said his medical condition wasnt a 
reason for it not to allow him to trade. However, he thought that Fortrade should have acted 
on being told by Mr M on 27 February 2019 that he needed money for a kidney transplant 
and said it should repay to the estate the net deposits made by Mr M after that date together 
with simple interest at 8% on the amount payable.  
Fortrade accepted the investigators opinion but Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators 
opinion and it was referred to me for review. I issued a provisional decision upholding the 
complaint but on a different basis to the investigator. I accepted that Fortrade was entitled to 
rely on the information provided on account opening which indicated Mr M had previous CFD 
trading experience, although I didnt think it had obtained all the information required by the 
rules as it didnt ask for details of volume of trades.
I found that subsequent telephone discussions, in particular one on 21 December 2017 in 
which Mr M raised a query as to leverage, put Fortrade on notice that he didnt have 
previous experience of CFD trading, contrary to the information he had provided on account 
opening. I thought this should have led Fortrade to reconsider whether the account was 
appropriate and conclude it wasnt and issue the required warning about this. I wasnt 
satisfied Mr M would have proceeded with opening the account if he had been given such a 
warning.  
Fortrade didnt agree with my provisional decision and said that there wasnt any basis for 
concluding that Mr M didnt have experience of trading CFDs. It pointed to the information he 
provided on account opening about daily trading. It said that whilst he did raise some 
questions about leverage this couldnt be taken to mean that he didnt understand CFD 
trading. 
It said it was possible that his questions could simply have been him trying to understand the 
leverage arrangements it offered rather than him being unaware of the concept of leverage. 
It also said the fact he didnt want to fully utilise the leverage offered didnt mean CFDs 
werent appropriate.
Fortrade said that it is clear from many other communications with Mr M that he had 
knowledge and experience of CFD trading and that it is important to have regard to his 
trading history. It said he started with lots of relatively small trades - which it said suggests 
he was testing its trading system  and then increased the size of his trades and dealt in a 
range of products. 
It said his trading behaviour wasnt indicative of someone who had never traded CFDs but is 
consistent with him having trading daily previously, as stated in the account opening form. It 
said it was important to note Mr M had a large number of profitable trades, which totalled 
more than $360,000.
It said it didnt have an ongoing duty to review appropriateness and referred to guidance 
provided in the case of Quinn v IG Index (2018) EWHC 2478 (Ch) (Quinn) which had 
previously been accepted by our service.
I asked the investigator to make enquiries of e-Toro about any account Mr M had held and it 
provided the information recorded at the time Mr M opened his account with it in July 2017 
stating that after the first month Mr M was trading using leverage of 50. And that he traded 
from August 2017 until September 2019.
I then issued a second provisional decision the findings from which I set out below.
The evidence from e-Toro makes it clear that, contrary to the finding in my first provisional 
decision - that Mr M had not traded CFDs before opening his account with Fortrade - he had 
done so at least for several months beforehand if not longer given e-Toro opened an 
account on the basis he already had relevant experience. I have no reason to question what 
it has told me about this.
The finding I made in my first provisional decision about Mr M not having previous 
experience of trading CFDs was obviously wrong and I now need to consider this complaint 
on the basis that he did have relevant experience.
I have firstly considered whether Fortrade should have opened an account for Mr M. In short, 
to open an account Fortrade need to be satisfied that such an account is appropriate for the 
client. If it is determined that it is not appropriate this doesnt automatically prevent Fortrade 
from opening an account. However, it can only do so after providing a warning to the client 
that the account is not appropriate with the client then saying they want to go ahead despite 
the warning. Even then it should still consider whether to open an account.
I remain of the view that, whilst the caller didnt deal with the call as I think she should have 
done, what Mr M said during the call, in relation to his health, wasnt a reason for Fortrade not to open the account.
I asked Fortrade to provide further information to satisfy myself that the record it had 
provided of the information Mr M gave about previous trading experience was accurate 
which it has done. I now also have the evidence from e-Toro showing he traded CFDs 
through it beforehand and informed it of previous relevant experience that allowed it to open 
an account. 
In the circumstances I dont think there is any reason to think the record Fortrade has 
provided as to the information Mr M gave on account opening doesnt reflect the information 
he provided about his previous trading experience.
Under COBS 10.2.4R Fortrade was entitled to accept at face value the information Mr M 
provided unless it had reason to think that the information was manifestly out of date, 
inaccurate, or incomplete. The only issue is that the information it obtained didnt provide 
information about the volume of CFD trades Mr M had carried out. 
I said in my first provisional decision that if it had sought further information about this from 
him he wouldnt necessarily have provided this. However, this was based on my finding that 
he had not previously traded CFDs, which finding I now know to have been wrong. Given the 
evidence from e-Toro there is no reason to think that Mr M wouldnt have provided 
necessary information about the volume of his CFD trades.
In my first provisional decision I found that Fortrade should have looked again at the 
appropriateness of the account because of the telephone discussion that took place on 21 
December 2017. Fortrade has argued there was no requirement on it to review 
appropriateness and relies on the case of Quinn in this regard. I dont necessarily agree with 
what it has said but I dont think I need to make a finding on that. 
This is because the finding I made in my first provisional decision that the outcome of a 
review would have been a conclusion that the account wasnt appropriate was based on Mr 
M having no previous CFD trading experience. As the evidence now shows that he did have 
previous experience there is now no basis for me finding that a review following the 
telephone call of 21 December 2017 would have resulted in Fortrade concluding the account 
wasnt appropriate.
So, in summary I dont think Fortrade did anything wrong in opening the account for Mr M 
without any warning and allowing him to trade CFDs and I also dont think there was 
anything wrong with it continuing to allow him to use the account after the telephone 
discussion on 21 December 2017.
However, I do think there is merit to the investigators conclusion Fortrade didnt treat Mr M 
fairly once he made reference to his need to fund an operation, which was in a telephone 
call on 27 February 2019. I agree with the investigator that what Mr M said should 
reasonably have led Fortrade to make further enquiries with Mr M at the time because it 
should have been aware from the conversation that he was potentially vulnerable. Instead, 
and again as the investigator noted, the account manager arguably encouraged him to keep 
trading, suggesting that he could earn more for his operation.
I acknowledge it is not possible to know with any certainty what the outcome would have 
been if Fortrade had discussed the situation with Mr M. It is possible that it would have 
continued to provide a service to him and he would have carried out the trades he 
subsequently carried out. However, I am not persuaded it is more likely than not this would 
have been the outcome of a discussion with Mr M at the time and I think it is reasonable to 
base redress on the account being stopped as at the date of the call.I again gave the parties the opportunity of responding to my provisional decision. Mrs M 
responded and said that further information should be obtained from e-Toro. She raised 
various questions about the conclusions I have reached in my second provisional decision 
and requested further information be sought from-e-Toro. I agreed to Mrs Ms request and 
sought some further information from e-Toro about the information Mr M had provided to it 
on account opening. This was provided and sent on to Mrs M to allow her the opportunity of 
making any further comments she wished to make.
Mrs M pointed to inconsistencies between information provided by Mr M to e-Toro in July 
2017 and information provided to it in January 2018 which she has said shows he wasnt 
thinking clearly at the time. She asked for confirmation of what trades had been carried out 
by Mr M with e-Toro and Fortrade and whether these were currency trades. Mrs M also 
noted inconsistencies between what Mr M told Fortrade about having one to two years of 
experience and the five months he traded with e-Toro. She raised other queries she thought 
should be put to e-Toro.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered everything that Mrs M has said in response to my second provisional 
decision. She has throughout this complaint provided reasoned arguments in support of 
what she has said at a very upsetting time for her. However, I am not persuaded I should 
change the basis on which I upheld the complaint as set out in my second provisional 
decision, which I know will be very disappointing for her.
I have noted what Mrs M has said following receipt of the information that was provided by 
us to her from e-Toro and the further queries she feels should be put to it. I understand why 
she thinks that further information would help me decide this complaint. But I am not 
persuaded that I need further information from e-Toro, or from anyone else, to come to a fair 
and reasonable decision in this complaint.
The findings in my first provisional decision were based on me thinking that Mr M was 
someone who had never traded before, that he was in effect a complete novice. The 
information from e-Toro shows this wasnt the case. The fact that Mr M already had an 
account through which he could make leveraged trades puts a very different light on this 
complaint. 
I note what Mrs M has said about the discrepancies in the information provided to e-Toro in 
July 2017 and January 2018 showing that Mr M wasnt thinking clearly. I think this must have 
been a very difficult time for both Mr M and Mrs M given his illness. However, whilst Fortrade 
were aware that Mr M was receiving treatment three times a week and that on these days he 
couldnt cope with telephone calls, it didnt have information that suggested he wasnt 
generally able to make decisions to trade.
I asked for information from e-Toro prior to my second provisional decision because I had 
made a finding in my first provisional decision that the telephone call of 21 December 2017 
suggested that Mr M didnt understand leverage which made me think he was a novice 
trader. I thought Fortrade should have looked again at the appropriateness of the account 
because of Mr Ms apparent lack of understanding of leverage. 
However, e-Toro has confirmed that Mr M had started trading with it in August 2017 using a 
leverage level of one before then increasing this to 50 after the first month. I acknowledge 
what Mrs M has said about his health at the time and that he hadnt been thinking clearly for a long period before his death in December 2019. 
However, there is no persuasive evidence he wasnt thinking clearly when he decided to 
increase his leverage level at e-Toro - or when placing trades with Fortrade. I think it is more 
likely than not Mr Ms decision to change his leverage level at e-Toro to 50 was a conscious 
decision on his part and one that I think he was unlikely to have made without having some 
understanding of what he was doing. I think the fact that he then made leveraged trades with 
both e-Toro and Fortrade for two years is also supportive of a finding that he knew what 
leveraged trading involved.
Mrs M wants further details to be obtained from e-Toro to establish whether he was trading 
CFDs through his account with it or not. However, as all positions with leverage at e-Toro 
are CFD trades, and it has confirmed he traded with leverage of 50 after the first month, it 
follows that he was trading CFDs. In the circumstances I dont think I need further 
information about this. 
Furthermore, even if Mr M hadnt traded CFDs through e-Toro but some other leveraged 
product, the fact he had an existing account with it through which he could make leveraged 
trades changes what I think would have happened if Fortrade had assessed that his account 
with it wasnt appropriate for him  as I explain further below.
I note that Mrs M has referred to the discrepancy between the one to two years of previous 
CFD trading Mr M identified he had done when opening his account with Fortrade and the 
few months he traded with e-Toro. Fortrade obviously wasnt aware of this at the time and 
had no reason to question what Mr M had put about previous CFD trading experience. 
The only information that Fortrade didnt have was the volume of trades that Mr M has 
previously carried out, as I noted in my first provisional decision. I havent asked e-Toro to 
provide information on the volume of trades Mr M carried out through it, as I dont think this 
would help me reach a fair and reasonable decision. 
If Fortrade had made enquiries of Mr M as to the volume of trades he had previously carried 
out I dont know what the outcome of such enquiries would have been and whether this 
would have been consistent with his trading through e-Toro. I say this because on the face 
of it he already provided information about his previous CFD trading which doesnt fit with 
the evidence now available - Mrs M has referred to the one to two years previous experience 
he indicated on account opening with Fortrade when his account with e-Toro had only been 
opened in August 2017.
Furthermore, even if further enquiries had led to Mr M indicating he hadnt traded for one to 
two years and/or that he hadnt carried out CFD trades in any significant volume which had 
led Fortrade to conclude that the account wasnt appropriate for Mr M, all this means is that 
Fortrade would have had to provide a warning to him that the account wasnt appropriate - in 
accordance with COBS 10.3.1R.
In my first provisional decision I concluded that if such a warning had been given then it was 
more likely than not Mr M wouldnt have proceeded with opening an account. However, this 
conclusion was based on my thinking that this was the first time that Mr M had used a broker 
such as Fortrade and that he hadnt come across leveraged trading before. 
I now know that when he opened his account with Fortrade Mr M had already opened an 
account with e-Toro through which he could place leveraged trades. This is a very different 
position to what I thought was the case at the time of my first provisional decision. Contrary 
to what I had thought, Mr M wasnt a complete novice and had come across leveraged 
trading before through e-Toro.Given Mr M had already opened an account with e-Toro through which he was placing 
leveraged trades, there is no reason to think he would have decided not to proceed with his 
account with Fortrade if an appropriateness warning had been given. In short, there is no 
reason to think that Mr M would have been put off from trading through Fortrade when he 
was already trading with e-Toro.
I am also no longer of the view that Fortrade shouldnt have allowed him to proceed with his 
account in the face of Mr M wanting to go ahead, given he was already making leveraged 
trades with another broker.
Putting things right
I think Fortrade should repay to the estate of Mr M the losses incurred on his account after 
he raised his need for money to fund an operation on 27 February 2019. It should pay simple 
interest of 8% each year on the amount calculated to be payable from the date such loss 
was incurred to the date of settlement. 
I note that in previous correspondence Fortrade calculated the amount due as $5,294.08 
plus $32.19 being the remaining balance on the account and it should provide simple details 
to show how it arrived at that figure.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. Fortrade Limited must calculate and 
pay redress to the estate of Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman