DRN-3652144
The complaint
Mr C complains about damage charges applied by LeasePlan UK Limited (LP) when he 
handed back his car at the end of a hire agreement.
What happened
LP carried out an inspection on Mr Cs vehicle and determined there were six incidences of 
chargeable damage under the terms of the hire agreement.
Mr C is not happy with this and does not agree with the charges. In summary, he says:
the car was immaculate considering it was several years old and was professionally 
valeted and repaired before collection; and
on the day of collection the inspector only pointed out two small scratches and did 
not provide an opportunity to agree any other damage or provide a report to sign  so 
how is he to know if damage was caused by the inspector after he drove away. 
Mr C asked LP to waive the charges but it refused so the matter came to this service.
Our investigator looked into the matter and concluded that the six items of damage identified 
were all fairly chargeable under the agreement. He also concluded that based on the 
information LP supplied it seemed more likely this damage was present at the point of 
collection.
Mr C does not agree, and disputes what the business says about being given an opportunity 
to sign the collection report. He maintains the agent should not have left without walking 
around the car showing all the points of damage and having these agreed via a signed 
report. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, for clarity any references to Mr C are also taken to include submissions made on his 
behalf by his representative who it appears was also the person representing him during the 
collection process of the car.
Mr C has questioned whether it is fair he is charged the amount LP has requested. The hire 
agreement which Mr C agreed to is quite clear that when Mr C returns the car it must be in a 
safe condition and in good and substantial repair. It goes on to clarify LP can charge Mr C 
for any damage beyond fair wear and tear (after all Mr C has had the car for several years 
so some wear and tear would be expected). 
So the key question in regard to the damage is whether it goes over and above what is 
considered to be fair wear and tear. My starting point is what the agreement says  
however, in the absence of detailed guidance I turn to industry produced guidelines. The 
British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) has produced guidance which is 
widely used in the industry to determine fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned 
particularly where vehicles are leased from new/nearly new. So I consider this to be a 
reasonable basis for determining what is fair wear and tear here.
I do note Mr C said the car was several years old when he returned it. However, it was newly 
registered when he took the agreement out and on its return the mileage appears to be 
below average for the time he had it. So I still dont think it is unreasonable to apply the 
BVRLA guidance when considering what is fair wear and tear.
The scratches
There are four scratches identified on the inspection report. LPs rationale for charging for 
these is because they are either greater than 25mm or are showing through the topcoat of 
paint (so you see the primer or bare metal). This rationale is in line with the BVRLA 
guidance. I also note the guidance says that even if scratches are within these tolerances a 
maximum of four surface scratches on one panel are acceptable.
In summary (although some of the photos could be better) from what I can see, I am 
persuaded:
Door shut inner LHF  there are numerous scratches and some show bare metal 
Door shut inner LHR  the scratch looks to be showing through the topcoat (and longer than 
25mm even though LP has not marked it as such)
Door shut inner RHR  the scratch looks to be greater than 25mm
Door shut inner RHF  the scratch looks to be showing through the topcoat (and longer than 
25mm even though LP has not marked it as such)
The chips
There are two chargeable chips identified on the report. The rationale for charging these is 
they are greater than 3mm in diameter. This is in line with the BVRLA guidance.
From what I can see from the photos, I am persuaded:
Door LHF  there are several chips that appear to be greater than 3mm in diameter
Door RHR  there is at least one chip that appears greater than 3mm in diameter
Overall, considering the evidence in the report along with the BVRLA guidance I am 
persuaded the items LP has invoiced Mr C for are outside of what is considered fair wear 
and tear and therefore chargeable under the terms of the hire agreement. Mr C has not 
particularly raised this argument but for the sake of completeness I have also looked at the 
charges themselves and they do not strike me as clearly disproportionate.
The collection and inspection process
A notable part of Mr Cs complaint centres around the collection process. Essentially Mr C 
points out that he was not given the opportunity to walk around the car to verify the damage 
which LP is charging for. And he suggests this damage could have been done by the 
inspector after the car was collected.There are conflicting accounts here as to whether or not Mr C was given the opportunity to 
sign and agree to the inspection report at his house. The inspection report indicates the 
there was a refusal to sign. However, Mr C maintains there was no opportunity to sign a 
report and agree to the damage. Mr C has said he can request CCTV footage from his 
camera doorbell from his alarm company to prove this. However, I dont think it is necessary 
to delay the case any further. Ultimately, I accept it is not good customer service if Mr C was 
not given an opportunity to properly look around the car and sign the report  but the key 
issue for me here is whether on balance the damage was present at Mr Cs property, or 
whether it was likely caused after the car was driven away. And I dont think Mr Cs doorbell 
evidence will alter that finding.
LP has clarified the full inspection was carried out at Mr Cs property so it appears the car 
was not driven somewhere else and stored in anticipation of further perusal. I also note that 
an invoice for the damage with the inspection report was sent to Mr C about ten days after 
collection (in line with the BVRLA guidelines). So based on this information alone it appears  
the likelihood of the damage being caused elsewhere is low.
I also note that LP has provided a video of the inspection which shows the car being 
analysed on a residential drive. Mr C has not disputed that this is his property. And while I 
accept that the video does not zoom right into each bit of damage (like the still photos) it 
does enough to show me that the damage was likely present as I can see the inspector had 
marked out the car with stick on rulers to identify areas of damage in locations consistent 
with the report.
All things considered I think it is more likely than not the damage which LP has identified as 
outside of fair wear and tear was present at the time of collection. So I think it is fairly 
chargeable here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman