DRN-3751429
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G complain about delays by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) in handling their 
claim on their car insurance. 
What happened
Mrs G had an accident in her car and notified Aviva using its online claims process. She 
selected a day in the following week to have her car repaired by one of Avivas approved 
repairers. 
On the same day as Mrs G did this, Aviva contacted her to say its approved repairer 
wouldnt be able to carry out the repairs on the date shed selected. The earliest available 
date was around six weeks later. Aviva also offered to book Mrs Gs car in with another 
approved repairer around three weeks later.
Wanting her car repaired sooner, Mrs G then contacted her cars manufacturer. It said it 
could repair the car more quickly than Avivas repairers. So Mrs G told Aviva she wanted to 
do this. The manufacturer e-mailed Aviva a repair estimate within a day or so of the 
accident. But Aviva didnt authorise the repairs until some weeks later.
Mrs G says Avivas delay in getting her car repaired has been very stressful for her. Shes 
also unhappy Aviva charged an additional excess of £250 for using an un approved repairer 
and hasnt reimbursed her the £10 she was charged by the manufacturer for the courtesy 
car she used while her car was being repaired.
When Mrs G complained to Aviva, it said it could see she had had to chase acceptance of 
the estimate more than once. It said even taking into consideration its engineer was querying 
the estimate with the manufacturer, its delay in authorising the repairs was inexcusable. So 
it offered Mrs G £100 in compensation.
Unhappy with this, Mrs G brought her complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it 
didnt uphold it. He thought the compensation Aviva had offered Mrs G was fair and 
reasonable for the distress and inconvenience its delays had caused her. He said Mrs Gs 
policy carried an additional excess of £250 for repairs carried out by a non-approved repairer 
and it was clear from a call Mrs G had with Aviva that she knew this. And he said Mrs Gs 
policy said she wouldnt be given a courtesy car if the repairer chosen wasnt an approved 
repairer, so it didnt need to reimburse her.
Mrs G disagrees with our investigators findings. She says the crucial aspect of her 
complaint is that Avivas consistent incompetence forced us to choose another repairer. 
She says Aviva undermined our confidence from day one in that their on-line system was 
useless for booking a repair date. They forced us to look elsewhere and cost us as a result.
So Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think Aviva is right to acknowledge there were delays here. It was only when Mrs G called a 
few days after the accident for an update that Aviva saw the repair estimate from the 
manufacturer hadnt been sent to the correct engineer. It was then another 10 days or so 
(and following Mrs G asking for another update) before Avivas engineer contacted the 
manufacturer to query the labour costs in the estimate. Aviva had previously advised Mrs G 
its usual turnaround time for reviewing estimates was between five to seven days, (although 
it did also say this could go over by a couple of days)  so it didnt manage Mrs Gs 
expectations well. And it was another few weeks before Aviva authorised
 the repairs.
Avivas delays were clearly inconvenient for Mrs G. She made a number of phone calls 
asking for updates. From these and from an online chat, her frustration and disappointment 
with the progress of her claim are obvious. In these circumstances, I think the compensation 
of £100 that Aviva offered is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its delays have caused Mrs G. And I understand that Aviva has recently sent 
Mr G and Mrs G a cheque in payment of this compensation.
Turning to the other parts of Mrs Gs complaint. Mrs G and Mrs Gs car insurance policy says 
theres an additional excess of £250 if a non-approved repairer carries out repairs. It also 
says a courtesy car wont be available where a non-approved repairer is used. 
I know Mrs G was disappointed, having chosen her preferred repair date with an approved 
repairer, to be told it wasnt available. But Aviva told Mrs G this on the same day she tried to 
book her car in. Aviva also offered Mrs G an alternative date  although it was around six 
weeks later  with the same repairer. And, when Mrs G said this was too far ahead, it offered 
her an earlier date with another approved repairer.
Aviva has said all its approved repairers will prioritise repairs for immobile cars over those 
that are still on the road  and Mrs Gs car was still driveable. And, in general, I dont think 
its unusual to have to wait some time for insurance repairs to be carried out by an insurers 
approved repairers.
I can understand that, because Mrs G was concerned a rear panel on her car was loose, 
and with the manufacturer saying it could carry out the repairs quickly, Mrs G chose to use it 
instead of Avivas approved repairer. But I think that was Mrs Gs choice. I dont think it was 
forced on her by Aviva. The policy is clear about the non-approved repairer excess and its 
clear from a call Mrs G had with Aviva that she knew about it. So, in these circumstances, I 
dont think its unfair or unreasonable of Aviva to apply the excess. And since the repair 
wasnt carried out by an approved repairer, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable of Aviva 
not to reimburse Mrs G the £10 she was charged by the manufacturer for the use of a 
courtesy car.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr G and Mrs Gs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman