DRN-3813797
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund transactions of £1,196 made 
from his account that he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr S says he received a phone call from someone on a withheld number on 
30 January 2022 claiming to be from Monzo, asking if he had set up two direct debits. He 
says he declined to talk to the caller as he knew Monzo does not call its customers. Mr S 
says that between 17:55 and 18:00 he was called several times again by the caller and 
eventually answered, where he was then asked about Apple Pay and told that he could 
receive notifications for this. Mr S says he again declined and hung up the phone. After 
ending the call, he says he opened his Monzo app to check his account, where he 
discovered a notification to use Apple Pay, which he said he didnt have set up on his 
device. 
After restarting his phone, Mr S says he discovered that two transactions had been made 
from his account for £1,196 that he didnt authorise, along with a further two attempted 
transactions that failed due to a lack of funds. Mr S reported the unauthorised transactions to 
Monzo, but it declined to refund the money as it said he hadnt taken care of his account 
details. 
Mr S complained that this was unfair as he says he didnt click on any links or share any of 
his security credentials, but he had no explanation for how his account came to be 
compromised. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr S said he had not shared any of his 
security details, she didnt think there was enough evidence to determine that a scam had 
actually taken place, as there was no plausible explanation for how his details had otherwise 
been compromised. So she thought they had most likely been authorised by him. Mr S 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards, the codes of practice; and, 
where relevant, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The disputed transactions complained about took place in January 2022, so of particular 
relevance to my decision are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs)  which apply 
to transactions like the one made from Mr Ss account.
The PSRs say that a payment transaction is authorised by the payer where they have given 
their consent to the execution to the payment transaction. Such consent must be given in the 
form and in accordance with the procedure agreed between the payer and the payment 
service provider.
Unless the payment service provider can show consent has been given, it has no authority 
to make a payment or debit the customers account. Where a payment service user denies 
having authorised a payment transaction, it is for the payment service provider to prove that 
the payment transaction in question were authorised by the customer.
Having considered the facts before me as well as the relevant law, it seems to me that the 
key question I need to determine here is whether it is more likely than not that Mr S 
authorised the transactions. In other words, I need to decide whether Mr S made the 
transactions himself or gave someone permission to do so. This is important because a 
customer will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, a 
bank will be liable for any unauthorised payments.
In this instance, the disputed transactions were contactless payments facilitated by Apple 
Pay which had been set up on Mr Ss account the day the transactions were made. 
However, Mr S said he did not set this up himself. But having considered the evidence, Im 
satisfied the more likely explanation is that he authorised the use of Apple Pay and the 
subsequent transactions it was used to pay for. Ill explain why.  
The testimony Mr S has provided does not correlate with the sequence of events as shown 
by the evidence. He said he received a phone call from a scammer pretending to be from 
Monzo at 5:56PM which his call log shows lasted for 51 seconds. He said they spoke to him 
about Apple Pay, but that he didnt receive any texts or emails about it, and that the first he 
saw any mention of Apple Pay was after the call when he opened his Monzo app and 
received a notification about Apple Pay. 
However, I can see that Mr S did receive a text message from Monzo informing him that his 
card had been successfully set up for Apple Pay at 5:23PM, i.e. before any of the scam calls 
took place. Further, the first transaction made via Apple Pay was completed at 17:56  the 
time Mr S says he picked up the call to the scammer  so it seems more likely than not that 
Apple Pay had been set up and authenticated before Mr S said he received a call about it. 
However, no explanation has been offered by Mr S about this discrepancy.   
Mr S says he did not share any of his details or approve any Apple Pay requests. But this 
form of payment could have only been made if he had either set up Apple Pay himself, or 
shared his card details or PIN with someone else in order to facilitate it being set up on 
another device.
Mr S has maintained that no one else had access to his device or account details, and that 
he did not enter his details in response to any text messages or emails. However, theres 
nothing to suggest that remote access was gained of his device, and theres seemingly no 
other explanation as to how his details came to be compromised. The evidence provided by 
Monzo in the form of its mobile banking logs also does not suggest that anyone else was 
able to gain access to his banking app to authorise the use of Apple Pay, as it shows that all 
logins were made using the same fingerprint ID. 
So, given Mr S didnt share his details or device with anyone else, the only plausible 
conclusion is that either Mr S set up Apple Pay on his account and made the transactions 
himself, or gave his details to somebody else, thereby giving his consent and authority for 
payments to be made on his behalf. I appreciate that Mr S disputes this but given no one 
else had access to his details or device, there is no other more plausible explanation for how the payments could have otherwise been made. 
I understand that Mr S received calls from a potential scammer pretending to be Monzo, but 
that does not explain how Apply pay came to be linked to his account for the payments to 
then be made. He has not said that he was tricked into sharing his security details for 
example, so it seems unlikely that anyone else could have set up this payment method in 
these circumstances. 
As a result, there isnt enough evidence to suggest that a scam has taken place here, so I 
dont consider Monzo has acted unfairly by declining to refund the disputed transactions, as I 
consider they were more likely than not to have been authorised by Mr S. I appreciate this 
will likely come as a disappointment to Mr S, but I wont be asking Monzo to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman