DRN-1906851
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains about two short term loans that she took out with Evergreen Finance 
London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, (EFL), which she said were unaffordable.
What happened
This complaint is about two short term loans EFL provided to Mrs C between April 2019 and 
May 2019. Loan 1 was repayable by three monthly instalments and Loan 2 was repayable 
by six monthly instalments. Loan 2 hasnt been repaid. 
Mrs Cs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan number Date of loan Repayment date Loan amount 
1.  15/4/19 21/5/19 £500
2.  21/5/19 Unpaid £850
 
EFL in its final response letter said that it assessed the affordability of each loan by 
requesting income and expenditure details from Mrs C and performing credit checks. EFL 
said that she had sufficient disposable income to repay the loan instalments.  EFL also said 
that its credit check helped satisfy it that Mrs C would be able to sustainably meet the 
repayments due on the loans. EFL also said that Mrs C had repaid Loan 1 early which 
wasnt indicative of someone who found the loan repayments unaffordable. 
Our adjudicator recommended that Mrs Cs complaint be upheld.  
EFL disagreed. It said that the checks undertaken were proportionate especially given the 
infancy of the lending relationship. It would be unrealistic for an underwriter to sit and review 
every line of a credit file prior to lending, especially at the early stages of the relationship. 
EFL also said that this assertion was supported by numerous previous assessments and 
decisions received from this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I note that EFL referred to previous assessments and decisions received from this service. 
But we assess each case on its own merits. And it isnt always appropriate to compare the outcomes of complaints without a detailed understanding of the specific facts of each 
complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Mrs C took out her loans. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook said that for all loans 
EFL needed to check that Mrs C could afford to meet her repayments in a sustainable 
manner. This meant Mrs C being able to meet her repayments out of her normal income 
without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks EFL needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Mrs C would be able to meet her repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
EFL did a number of checks before it lent to Mrs C. It asked her for details of her income and 
expenditure. Mrs C declared her monthly income as between £2,000 and £2,145.     Mrs C 
declared no expenditure before Loan 1. EFL adjusted Mrs Cs expenditure to £800. Mrs Cs 
declared expenditure before Loan 2 was £1,100 including credit commitments of £600. 
I also note that EFL checked Mrs Cs credit file before agreeing to the loans. EFL has 
provided this service with information from its credit checks. I shall refer to this below. 
Weve not received a full copy of Mrs Cs own credit report. 
I can see that Loan 1 was for £500 and was repayable by three monthly repayments of 
around £213. Ive thought about whether EFLs checks were proportionate for Loan 1. I can 
see that the repayments were relatively modest compared to Mrs Cs disposable income as 
adjusted by EFL.  
But the information weve received from EFLs credit check before Loan 1 showed that    Mrs 
C had 31 active accounts with a total loan balance outstanding of £22,298. Eleven accounts 
had been opened in the previous six months. Mrs C had no delinquent or defaulted accounts 
in the previous twelve months. But I can see that Mrs C had three advances against income 
(ie payday loans) and numerous unsecured loans, some of which may have been short term 
loans. She also had home credit and mail order accounts and four credit card account 
balances which were all over their respective credit limits. The monthly loan repayments on 
the credit check totalled around £1,662. This amount doesnt include the repayments on Mrs 
Cs home credit and mail order accounts. Although EFL didnt need to do full checks when Loan 1 was arranged, it did need to review 
the results of those checks before making its lending decision. It ought to have seen that Mrs 
C had at least three short term loans on its credit checks before Loan 1 and a substantial 
amount of other unsecured borrowing. I think that Mrs Cs credit commitments might have 
suggested to EFL that her finances were severely under pressure and that she was having 
difficulties managing her money. As such there was a real risk that Mrs C wasnt going to be 
able to sustainably repay Loan 1. So as a responsible lender, I dont think EFL should have 
given Loan 1 to Mrs C.
Loan 1 was repaid early. I note that Mrs C said that shed taken out another payday loan 
from another lender to help her pay Loan 1. On the day she repaid Loan 1, Mrs C took out 
Loan 2. The loan amount had substantially increased to £850 and the loan repayments were 
to be made over six months. So, the amounts that Mrs C needed to repay each time were 
smaller than if shed taken a normal payday loan. But she was also committing to making 
those repayments over a far longer period.  
Ive carefully reviewed the information weve received about EFLs credit checks before Loan 
2. This shows that Mrs C had 30 active credit accounts and 14 accounts had been opened in 
the previous six months. The total loans balance had increased to £22,782. EFL would also 
have been aware that the amount of £600 for credit commitments declared to it by Mrs C 
wasnt correct. The monthly loan repayments on the credit check totalled around £1,873. 
This amount doesnt include the repayments on Mrs Cs home credit and mail order 
accounts.  I can see that Mrs C still had three outstanding advances against income (ie 
payday loans) and she still had numerous outstanding instalment loan accounts (described 
as unsecured loans) some of which may have been short term loans. 
Again, I would have reasonably expected EFL to respond appropriately to the information in 
its credit checks. The information it had gathered showed that Mrs C still had significant 
existing credit commitments. I think it also showed that Mrs C was having serious difficulties 
managing her money. So, I think EFL ought to have seen that Mrs C was unlikely to be able 
to sustainably repay Loan 2 and EFL shouldnt have approved this loan. 
I note that EFL said that it was unrealistic for its underwriter to review every line of a credit 
file prior to lending. But simply performing checks isnt enough. A lender must also react 
appropriately to the information that any checks show. From what EFL has shown us, I think 
it ought to have seen enough to know that Mrs C had serious financial problems. 
I note that EFL said that Loan 1 was repaid early. But the fact that the loan was repaid early 
doesnt mean it was repaid sustainably, or without causing Mrs C undue difficulty. 
I also note that EFL said that Mrs C appeared to have sufficient disposable income to repay 
her loan instalments. But I think that EFL should have seen from its credit checks before 
Loans 1 and 2 that Mrs C was facing significant problems managing her money and I dont 
think it was reasonable for EFL to conclude that the repayments were sustainable. 
So, Im upholding this complaint and EFL should put things right as shown below. If as 
seems likely there remains an outstanding balance for Mrs C to pay, Id also remind EFL to 
deal with her positively and sympathetically in working with her to come to a suitable 
repayment plan if she is still experiencing financial difficulties.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, to take the following 
steps:If EFL has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take 
the following steps. If EFL isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
1. EFL should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs C towards interest, 
fees and charges on Loan 1, not including anything EFL may have already refunded.
2. EFL should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs C 
which were considered as part of 1., calculated from the date Mrs C originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
3. EFL should remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance on 
Loan 2, and treat any repayments made by Mrs C on Loan 2 as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on Loan 2. If this results in Mrs C having made 
overpayments then EFL should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, 
to the date the complaint is settled. EFL should then refund the amounts calculated in 
1. and 2. and move to step 5..
4. If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in 1. and 2. 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on Loan 2 and any principal EFL has 
already written off. If this results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to    
 Mrs C. However, if there is still an outstanding balance, then EFL should try to agree 
an affordable repayment plan with Mrs C. EFL shouldnt pursue any outstanding 
balance made up of principal it has already written-off.
5. EFL should remove any adverse entries about Loans 1 and 2 from Mrs Cs credit 
file.*HMRC requires EFL to take off tax from this interest. If Mrs C asks EFL for a 
certificate showing how much tax EFL has taken off, it should provide this. If EFL 
intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Mrs C owes, it must do this after tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman