DRN-3219610
The complaint
Mr W complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard incorrectly sent a letter 
saying hed passed away.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Barclays admit they sent a letter to Mr Ws home saying hed passed away. They 
explained this happened after one of their advisers made a mistake following a 
phone call from Mr W about an unrelated matter. Given its not disputed Mr W is very 
much alive, I agree he shouldnt have received this letter. I also dont consider its 
unreasonable Mr W was upset when he received this letter. So, Ive had to consider 
whats fair to put things right.
Barclays accepted their mistake and the impact this had on Mr W, and they paid him 
£150 in recognition of this. However, Mr W doesnt think this goes far enough. Hes 
said he wants a higher award, and for Barclays to be named and shamed. While 
I appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling about this, I do need to manage his 
expectations about our powers  in particular, I need to make it clear that we cannot 
punish financial businesses.
As mentioned above, I understand why Mr W would have found receiving Barclays 
letter distressing. And this upset was compounded because it brought back feelings 
of upset and grief he felt after losing close family members. I am very sorry to hear 
what Mr W has been through, and the impact these events have had on his mental 
health. However, the information Ive been provided persuades me Barclays took this 
complaint seriously and were keen to rebuild Mr Ws trust in them. I say this because 
they admitted their mistake as soon as they were made aware of it.
Ultimately, nothing can undo what has happened, nor the upset Mr W felt. And again, 
I am sorry to hear how Barclays mistake made him feel. But when determining an 
appropriate monetary award, I must take everything into account. I appreciate 
Barclays initially offered a lower award. But after investigating this complaint, they 
acknowledged their mistake warranted a higher award. So, given Barclays quick 
admission of fault - and the steps they took to properly recognise the impact of their 
mistake, I consider their £150 offer is fair given all the circumstances. Had Barclays 
not already made an offer, my award would have been of a similar amount.  
For these reasons, while I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr W hoped for, I wont be 
asking Barclays to do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman