DRN-2573602
The complaint
Ms C says Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank), didnt do enough to help when she fell victim to 
a scam. She says Metro should reimburse her for the money she lost.
What happened
In 2014, following on from a family tragedy, Ms C said she was rebuilding her life. Ms C had 
left her job as a mortgage broker, sold her flat and with a young family, decided to resume 
her career as a self-employed mortgage broker. 
It was in around 2015 that Ms C says an old friend introduced her to what she believed was 
a legitimate company which I will refer to as TM. 
TM advertised itself as a revenue sharing advertising platform. In essence, customers 
purchased AdPacks which TM said would provide guaranteed visitors to their websites and 
dependent on how many banners / adverts were clicked on, it would also make its 
customers a certain amount of additional revenue.
Ms C has said that her friend had introduced her and two others to TM. Ms C has explained 
that she remembers him telling her that it was a good way to make money and advertise her 
business at the same time. She said he regularly showed her his account and the money in 
his account increasing. Her friend explained he had been sending money to TM regularly 
and had around £15,000 - £18,000 in his account and that you could withdraw it anytime  
having shown Ms C on occasion. Ms C was told the more she put in, the more interest her 
money would make. Her friend also knew she had sold her flat and had savings to use. Ms C 
said that she was told that if she started with a low amount then it would take a long time to 
make anything from it. Ms C says she was advised £10,000 would be a good figure to put in 
to start seeing fast returns. Ms C says she was told that it wasnt a pyramid scheme and that 
she wasnt recruited to bring people on-board.
Ms C has told us she did some research and was told to ignore any negative press and that 
she was given testimonies by people who were making money and were happy with TM. 
Ms C says she was told constantly by her friend that it wasnt a scam and other friends of 
hers had open accounts with TM, showing her that it worked. Shes said she spoke to people 
who claimed to have bought cars and paid deposits for houses. At the time Ms C was 
convinced it was a legitimate company.
Ms C says, after seeing everyone around her with open TM accounts with thousands in and 
withdrawing money whenever they wanted, decided to go for it, thinking it would put her and 
her family in a better financial position.
Ms C had attempted to do a transfer  but there was an issue with incorrect details and the 
payment didnt go through. But on 8 January 2016, Ms C went into a branch a made a 
£10,000 international transfer to the owner of TM.
Unfortunately in around July 2016 it came to light that TM was in fact an internet-based 
Ponzi scheme  with the US Securities and Exchange Commission freezing its assets and 
filing a lawsuit against it.
In August 2016, Ms C contacted Metro Bank to make them aware that TM were being 
investigated for fraud and to try and recover her funds that she had lost out on.
Due to the time that has passed, Metro Bank has a record of Ms Cs contact in August 2016 
and that the matter was passed to its fraud team, but it has no further information on any 
actions taken by it at that time. 
In December 2019, Ms C wrote a letter to Metro Bank raising her concerns about the matter 
and that Metro Bank should have done more for her and that she should be refunded the 
funds she had lost due to the scam. Ms C didnt receive a response and wrote to Metro Bank 
again in February 2020. Ms C explained that under a code called the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (often referred to as the CRM code), victims of Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scams should be refunded.
Metro Bank investigated the matter and issued its final response to Ms C on 2 March 2020. It 
explained that its records didnt show that there had been a request to recall the funds from 
the beneficiary bank (the bank used by the scammer) in 2016 and that it had, following 
Ms Cs complaint, submitted a request. It also explained that the CRM code wasnt 
applicable in Ms Cs case as the code was introduced on 28 May 2019 and it wasnt 
retrospective  meaning the CRM code only applied to payments that were made on or after 
28 May 2019.
Within Metro Banks letter, it advised Ms C that she could refer the matter to our service if 
she remained unhappy. Ms C subsequently brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They explained that banks are 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. But 
they also explained that there are some situations where banks, taking into account
relevant rules, codes and best practice standards, shouldnt have taken their customers
authorisation instruction at face value  or it should have looked at the wider circumstances
surrounding the transaction before making the payment.
They considered the £10,000 payment Ms C made was unusual and Metro Bank should 
have asked Ms C further questions around the payment. Due to the time that had passed, 
and as there werent any records, they were unable to conclude what was said or discussed 
when Ms C made the payment. But they found that even had Metro Bank stepped in and 
asked Ms C questions, then taking into account what was known about TM at the time and 
alongside what Ms C had been told by her friends and the testimonies of other users it 
wouldnt have made a difference in their opinion. They considered Ms C, based on the first-
hand evidence and testimony from her friends who she trusted at that time, would have 
progressed with authorising the payment. 
Ms C disagreed with the investigators opinion, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
I would like to add at this point, that Ms C has written lengthy submissions about her 
complaint, highlighting her strength of feelings on the matter and also on how much it has 
affected her life since. I would like to assure Ms C that I have carefully considered everything 
she has submitted, including her testimony. Ms C has been open and honest in providing a 
detailed account of the events of 2016 and about her situation leading up to the transfer to 
TM.
Before I go on to explain my findings, I want to clarify for Ms Cs benefit why the CRM code 
isnt relevant in her case and what the relevant regulations were at the time.
Why the CRM Code isnt applicable
The CRM code states:
Scope
DS2(1) This Code does not apply to:
(c) any payments completed before the coming into force of this Code.
As the CRM code was introduced in May 2019, after Ms Cs transfer in January 2016, and 
the CRM code isnt retrospective, it isnt relevant in this complaint.
Also the CRM code applies to customers undertaking Payment Journeys between GBP-
denominated UK-domiciled accounts. So even if Ms Cs payment had been made after 
May 2019, as the payment was an international transfer, and wasnt between GBP-
denominated UK-domiciled accounts, it means it wouldnt have been considered under the 
CRM code in any event.   
The relevant regulations in place at the time 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
It is the case that Ms C authorised the payment in dispute  and thats accepted by all 
parties. And under the Payment Service Regulations 2009 (which are the relevant 
regulations in place here) that means Ms C is responsible for the payment. 
That remains the case even though Ms C was the unfortunate victim of a scam.But that isnt the end of the story, and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Metro Bank should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
For branch transactions like this, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate. (The Banking protocol was introduced in May 2015 with 
a number of banks signing up  but for those not signed up at that time, it still set out 
what was good industry practice, and is therefore of relevance here.)
What does this mean for Ms C?
Given the above, Ive looked to see first, whether Ms Cs international payment for £10,000 
was an unusual transaction and was out character. And second, if it was, did Metro Bank 
take some additional steps or checks with Ms C about the payment  and importantly, would 
these additional checks or steps have made a difference to Ms Cs decision. In other words, 
would any additional questioning or probing to Ms C about the payment have made a 
difference  resulting in her deciding not to go ahead with the payment. Or do I consider it 
more likely than not that Ms C would have gone ahead with the payment in any event.  
With regards to the whether the £10,000 payment was unusual in the circumstances, I agree 
with our investigator in that it was unusual. Having looked at Ms Cs statements for her Cash 
Account (which didnt have the facility to make international transfers) and her Current 
Account (which did have the facility to make international transfers), the largest debit was 
£1,000 and it seems Ms C hadnt ever made an international payment. So making a £10,000 
international payment was an unusual transaction for Ms C.
There are no records or notes of any conversation had in branch and what was discussed 
with Ms C about the payment in January 2016. Due to the time that has passed, I dont find 
this unusual. The only documentation available is the international payment form that was 
completed. And this only provides the basic information of where the payment is being made 
to and the amount.
But despite the lack of evidence around what was discussed, I dont think it changes the 
outcome.
I say this because even if Metro Bank had stepped in and asked Ms C further questions 
around the payment and what it was for, I dont think it would have made a material 
difference to Ms Cs decision to go ahead with the payment at that time. Ill explain why.At the time Ms C was making the transfer, while there were some forums providing negative 
comments about TM, the US Securities and Exchange Commission didnt step in and freeze 
TMs assets and file a lawsuit until July 2016. So when Ms C made the transfer it wasnt 
overtly and publicly known that TM was an internet-based Ponzi scheme  it hadnt been 
uncovered at that time. 
I am also mindful that Ms C had said she had done some of her own research on TM prior to 
the transfer, but by this point had disregarded it. From Ms Cs testimony it is clear she had 
been completely placed under a spell regarding TM and had been duped based on what her 
trusted friends had said about TM. So I think had Ms C been asked what the payment was 
for, she would have said that it was a payment for an advertising company for her new 
business. And if she was probed even further, I am of the opinion Ms C would have, more 
likely than not, confirmed she was happy to go ahead with the payment to TM. And I think 
Ms Cs decision to do this would have been based on the fact she was completely and 
utterly convinced TM was a legitimate company, which in her mind had been reinforced for a 
period of time by what she had been told by her friends and from what she had seen in 
terms of peoples first-hand experience with TM at that time.
So while I dont know what was said in branch at the time, I am satisfied that even if 
Metro Bank had asked Ms C some further questions, I dont think it would have broken the 
spell Ms C was under. And I cant be as satisfied as I would need to be that Ms C would 
have acted any differently and not made the payment. I think it is more likely than not she 
would have gone ahead with the payment. 
Recovery of the funds
I have also gone on to look at whether Metro Bank acted promptly and in a timely manner in 
trying to seek to recover the funds once it was notified of the scam. The records here arent 
clear. Metro Bank has a record of Ms C contacting it in August 2016 and also that the matter 
was passed to its Fraud Team. However there isnt anything to suggest Metro Bank took 
any further actions. While that is unfortunate, I am also mindful that by August 2016, over six 
months had passed since Ms C had transferred the money. And Ms Cs contact with Metro 
Bank was also after the US Securities and Exchange Commission froze TMs assets in 
July 2016. 
It seems to me that it was most likely that the money had either been moved on or withdrawn 
by the fraudster(s) prior to the US Securities and Exchange Commission freezing the assets. 
And if not, any recovery attempt would have been outside of Metro Banks control in 
August 2016 as any remaining assets were frozen by the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission  with the courts having the power to decide on how to distribute any remaining 
assets / funds. 
Overall, while I appreciate Ms Cs been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think 
Metro Banks decision not to refund her in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I say this because it followed Ms Cs instructions to make the payment and I dont think any 
intervention at the time would have made a material difference to Ms Cs decision to go 
ahead with the payment. And this is based on what Ms C had been told and believed about 
TM. And unfortunately, by the time Ms C reported the matter over six months later, the funds 
had likely already been withdrawn or were frozen with the courts residing on how to 
distribute any remaining assets. So when Ms C got in touch with Metro Bank again in 2019, 
there wasnt anything it was able to do to help Ms C further. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman