DRN-2592447
The complaint
Ms P says Valour Finance Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Valour provided to Ms P in February 2016. The 
loan was for £750 and was to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £68.76. Ms P said 
Valour queried some concerning entries on her credit file, but still lent to her. From what I 
can see, Ms P met the first four months repayments but struggled after this point. An 
amount remains outstanding for the loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Ms Ps complaint should be upheld. Ms P disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision. Ms P said that the information she provided to Valour should have shown that she 
was in a spiral of unaffordable debt. She said that her attempts to consolidate her debts led 
to further debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Valour needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms P could 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Valour should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Valour was required to establish 
whether Ms P could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ps complaint.
Valour asked Ms P for information about her income and expenditure in a recorded 
telephone conversation and it carried out credit checks. These checks showed that Ms Ps 
monthly income was £1,661.44 and her monthly outgoings, including her existing debt 
repayments was £1,430.83. So Ms P had about £230 a month disposable income. Valour 
verified Ms Ps income by checking her bank statements. It asked her about two concerns on 
her credit check, but Ms P was able to explain these as errors. Ms P told Valour that she 
wanted the loan to consolidate her debts.
I think these checks were proportionate and sufficient for Ms Ps first loan from Valour. Given 
the loans duration, Id expect Valour to have questioned Ms Ps circumstances to ensure 
that she could sustainably repay it. And I think it did this in its telephone conversation with 
her. And I also think Valour asked Ms P about her other short term borrowing, evident in her 
bank statements, and took this into account. 
Given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Ms Ps circumstances at the time and her 
history with Valour, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask her for the amount of 
information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the 
information Ms P provided or the information Valour shouldve been aware of, which meant it 
wouldve been proportionate to further verify what Ms P was saying. 
I accept that Ms Ps actual circumstances werent reflected either in the information she 
provided, or the other information Valour obtained. And Ms Ps actual financial position might 
well have been apparent if further information had been obtained. 
But Valour could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Ms P, I dont think it had 
reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loan being unsustainable for Ms P. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Valour needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think Valour carried out reasonable checks even 
though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Ms Ps actual financial 
position. 
Valour relied on the information it was provided with. Given the amount of the repayments 
involved, together with Ms Ps declared income and Ms P only taking one loan, I think that 
this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Ms Ps complaint. 
Ms P still has an amount outstanding for her loan. I expect Valour to respond to Ms Ps 
financial difficulties in a positive and sympathetic manner.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman