DRN-3482907
The complaint
Miss C complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) wont refund a payment she made using 
her debit card for a holiday home booking. 
What happened
In June 2020, Miss C made a booking for a holiday home in the UK via an online website I 
will refer to as A. Miss C paid £259.50 using her debit card and she was due to stay for three 
nights in July 2020. 
In July 2020, before she was due to travel and stay at the holiday home, Miss C contacted 
BoS and advised that the location the holiday home was in would be in lockdown due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Miss C said was unable to contact the host of the holiday home to 
determine if she was still able to use the service.
Miss C says that she didnt travel to the location as she was travelling from a long distance, 
and the host did not reply to her to confirm if the service was still available. She says she 
also wasnt given details on how to obtain the keys to the holiday home.  
In September 2020, BoS wrote to Miss C and explained a dispute had been raised and a 
temporary refund of £259.50 was credited to her account. It explained that the credit would 
remain on her account if A didnt reply. 
A defended the chargeback, explaining that the service was still available. Within its 
defence, A also provided its terms and conditions regarding cancellations and highlighted 
that Miss C hadnt cancelled the booking in line with these, so she wasnt entitled to a full 
refund. 
BoS explained to Miss C that A had defended the chargeback and advised the credit would 
now be re-debited from her account. 
In October 2020, Miss C provided further information which showed that she had attempted 
to contact the host of the holiday home on several occasions and didnt receive a reply until 
August 2020. BoS reviewed this email and explained that it was outside of the time limits 
imposed by the card scheme, Visas, regulations to challenge the merchant further. 
In February 2021, BoS sent its final response letter following its investigation into Miss Cs 
complaint. Within this letter BoS explained it paid £35 for incorrect information being 
provided and explained that the chargeback wasnt successful as A had defended it. 
BoS further clarified that it paid £35 as Miss C stated she tried to raise a complaint with BoS 
but was unable to and had to contact our service instead. Although BoS couldnt locate the 
calls or find evidence of Miss C raising a complaint, it paid £35 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Unhappy with BoS response, Miss C referred her complaint to our service.  Our Investigator 
looked into Miss Cs concerns. In summary, she said BoS handled Miss Cs chargeback 
request fairly and they hadnt done anything wrong in declining Miss Cs chargeback claim. 
In relation to the £35 compensation BoS paid, she thought this was fair in the circumstances.
Miss C didnt agree and explained there were travel restrictions in place, which meant she 
couldnt travel out of the location she was in. So, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether BoS unfairly declined Miss Cs chargeback claim. If I think it did, 
Ill consider what, if anything, it needs to do to put things right.
It may be helpful to explain that chargeback is a method or scheme that a bank can use to 
attempt to obtain a refund for a consumer who has made payments on a debit card. There is 
no consumer right to a chargeback, but I would expect a bank to attempt a chargeback 
where it would have a reasonable prospect of succeeding. This would generally mean that 
the chargeback would need to comply with the rules set by the card scheme (Visa, in this 
case).
If a chargeback is defended by the merchant, then it would be for the bank to decide whether 
to pursue the claim on to the next stage. The bank would usually review the information 
provided and consider whether the defence is fair under the relevant card scheme rules. If 
the bank does feel the defence is fair, the bank usually reverses the temporary credit. Which 
is what happened in Miss Cs case. 
BoS says that it couldnt challenge the chargeback claim after A defended it, as A hadnt 
confirmed the cancellation with Miss C, and the service wouldve been available for her to 
use. So, BoS didnt take her claim any further. Ive considered whether BoS acted fairly here, 
and I think that it did for reasons Ill go on to explain.
A provided evidence to show that the details for checking in to the holiday home were sent to 
Miss C in June 2020 along with a secure link for a voucher and check in details. There is no 
evidence to show that A cancelled its services. 
Ive reviewed the guidance issued by the government about the Covid-19 pandemic at the 
time and can see that although some businesses were not able to operate, this didnt include 
hotels and home rental businesses  such as the holiday home in Miss Cs complaint. The 
merchant also confirmed that the holiday home Miss C had booked was available to use. 
Under the terms of the booking, I can see Miss C wouldve only been due a full refund if she 
cancelled 14 days prior to her booking, or 50% if she booked up to 7 days before checking 
in. There is no evidence to suggest Miss C cancelled her booking 7 or 14 days before it was 
due to go ahead. I appreciate Miss C did ask the host some questions on 10 July 2020 
regarding the lockdown rules in that area, however, this does not amount to a request for 
cancellation. The first mention of cancellation appears to take place on 15 July 2020, two 
days before the booking was to go ahead - Miss C says, I was trying to see if I could move 
cancel due to your non communication.
Ive also reviewed the updated cancellation policy for A as the pandemic unfolded. It appears 
that A were only offering a full refund for reservations booked on or before 14 March 2020 
with a check-in date of 15 September or earlier. Miss Cs circumstances do not fit into this as 
she made her booking in June 2020 to go ahead the following month. 
Miss C states that she was unable to travel out of her location in July 2020 due to 
government restrictions. Visa released some rules and guidance during the pandemic which I consider to be relevant to Miss Cs circumstances. The Visa guidance issued in April 2020 
makes it clear that there is no chargeback right if the cardholder chose to not make use of a 
service which was available even with government restrictions in place. So, although there 
may have been some travel restrictions in place which meant Miss C didnt leave her 
location, this isnt something Ill be able to take into account when considering whether BoS 
have acted fairly with the chargeback claim  as the holiday home was available but Miss C 
chose to not go ahead with the booking.
Lastly, BoS says that it doesnt have a record of Miss C raising this complaint with them. 
However, when Miss C first contacted our service, she explained she hadnt received a 
response from BoS to her complaint. So, there seems to be some conflicting information 
here. But I think its likely Miss C did raise her complaint with BoS as I dont believe she 
would have told us this when first contacting our service if she hadnt. I can appreciate it 
wouldve been disappointing for Miss C to not receive a response from BoS but I think the 
£35 compensation is fair in the circumstances. I understand this has already been paid to 
Miss C, so, I wont be asking BoS to do anything more.
I understand this will likely come as a disappointment to Miss C, however, in the 
circumstances I dont think BoS acted unfairly. 
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman