DRN-2083319
The complaint
Ms G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy. Neither party can confirm where or when the 
policy was taken out. Its most likely in was in one of the banks branches and the sale has 
been reviewed on that basis. Lloyds assumes the PPI was taken out in 1998 when the card 
started, although its records dont show PPI being charged on the account until 2000. The 
policy gave Ms G protection against accident, sickness and unemployment and some life 
cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms G disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, Ive made my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities  so, on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and what we 
know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. Ive 
decided not to uphold Ms Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive thought carefully about what Ms G said  that she didnt know she was paying for PPI. 
There isnt much information to go on in this case, because everything happened so long 
ago. I dont think its surprising or unreasonable Lloyds no longer has Ms Gs application 
form. But from what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI with credit cards between 1998 and 
2000, I think its likely Lloyds wouldve made Ms G aware she had a choice about PPI. The 
sample of the application form shes likely to have used shows she would have needed to 
tick a box to take out PPI.
I have taken into account Ms Gs comments, but I also have to consider how long ago the 
sale was and how that might affect what she recalls. Overall, without stronger evidence, I 
cant fairly conclude Lloyds sold the PPI to Ms G without giving her a choice, and her 
agreeing to take it.
Its most likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms G. This means Lloyds had to make sure 
it was right for her. I think it was suitable based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time. Ms G was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if she was sick, 
but the PPI would have paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months. It also gave her 
up to 12 months redundancy cover. So, overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful to 
Ms G if she was sick or lost her job.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. However, based on the policies Lloyds sold during this time, it seems she wouldnt 
have been affected by any of the exclusions or limitations. Im aware Ms G had a pre-
existing medical condition but from what shes told us it was under control. So I dont think 
she would have expected to need to make a related claim. And, given what we know about 
the cost of Lloyds PPI policies over these years, the policy wouldve been competitively 
priced, and it was apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Ms G wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think she would still have 
taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Ms G has lost out because of any problems with this sale. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman