DRN-4095601
The complaint
Miss B complains that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) failed to advise her 
on a transfer of her defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) in time to secure her cash equivalent transfer value (CETV). 
What happened
In December 2021 Miss B decided she wanted advice about transferring the benefits from 
her OPS. She had deferred pension benefits in this scheme and wanted to transfer in order 
to access tax free cash from her pension in a way that she couldnt from her OPS. Miss B 
had been quoted a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV1) around £680,000. CETV1 was 
guaranteed until 2 March 2022. 
Miss B contacted SJP in January 2022 to discuss the transfer. SJP made her aware that it 
would be unable to provide a recommendation and process the transfer by the deadline of 
2 March 2022. Miss B enquired about obtaining a new CETV but was unable to do that until 
after CETV1 expired.
Miss B obtained a new transfer value (CETV2) on 22 March 2022. Its value was around 
£617,000. CETV2 was guaranteed until 17 June 2022, with a deadline for submission of a 
transfer application of 27 May 2022. 
Miss B provided SJP with CETV2 on 25 April 2022. SJP say that it again explained that it 
would not have time to complete the advice process prior to the CETV2 deadline expiring. 
So Miss B contacted her OPS administrators who agreed to extend the guarantee period for 
CETV2 to 27 June 2022.
SJP provided Miss B with abridged advice on 13 June 2022. It didnt rule out a transfer being 
suitable and Miss B instructed SJP to proceed to the full advice process.
SJP were unable to complete the process of providing Miss B with a personal 
recommendation about her OPS transfer prior to the deadline of 27 June 2022. But SJP sent 
partially completed transfer forms to the OPS administrators on 27 June 2022 in an attempt 
to secure CETV2. But the OPS scheme administrators were unable to accept the incomplete 
application. So CETV2 expired. 
Miss Bs OPS administrators contacted her to explain that the CETV had been recalculated 
and, because it had dropped by more than 10% (to around £511,000), asked whether she 
still wished to proceed with the transfer.
Miss B complained to SJP about the delays. She believes that SJP is responsible for the fact 
that she was unable to secure CETV2. The drop in value has meant her not transferring her 
OPS. And she explains that she has been unable to fulfil obligations she wanted to with the 
pension commencement lump sum she had anticipated taking.
SJP explain that the process of advising on a pension transfer like this is complex and takes 
time. It says it didnt offer any guarantee of completing by a specific time, and didnt think it 
had caused any unreasonable delays.
Miss B didnt accept SJPs explanation so referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into what happened and was of the opinion that SJP werent responsible 
for the fact that CETV2 was missed. But didnt think the way that SJP handled the last 
minute transfer request was fair to Miss B. And suggested it pay her £250 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience that caused.
SJP agreed with our investigator. But Miss B didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator, and for 
similar reasons. I understand this will be disappointing for Miss B as she wasnt able to 
secure the amount of tax free cash from her pension that she expected. And she hasnt yet 
taken any tax free cash at all. Im sorry for any consequential difficulties this has caused her. 
Id reassure Miss B that I havent taken these consequences lightly, but have based my 
decisions on what I think it was fair or reasonable for SJP to have done. I will explain as 
follows.
I will start by reiterating what has already been explained to Miss B. Which is that her OPS 
had guaranteed benefits at retirement. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) have 
identified concerns about consumers giving up these very valuable benefits without being 
properly informed. Consequently the regulatory rules surrounding pension transfers like this 
are quite rigorous. And our service would expect that SJP were paying regard to all of the 
rules and guidance in the service it provided Miss B.
The FCA publish a Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) which has rules and guidance 
for advisers thats specifically about pension transfers under COBS 19.1. And in COBS 9 
there are rules and guidance about providing personal recommendations to clients. Also, 
within COBS and the Principles of Businesses (PRIN), there are clear obligations on SJP to 
act in Miss Bs best interests. So Ive considered all of these things, as well as what would 
have been good industry practice, in determining whether SJP did anything wrong in this 
case.
Miss B has accepted that SJP were not responsible for the fact that CETV1 wasnt secured. 
Which I think is a fair conclusion to reach. From the evidence thats been presented, Miss B 
didnt instruct SJP to go ahead with looking into her transfer until late in February 2022. With 
CETV1 expiring on 2 March 2022 I think it was perfectly reasonable of SJP to explain to 
Miss B that the process couldnt be completed in time.
The crux of Miss Bs complaint is that CETV2 was also missed. In order to decide why this 
happened Ive considered all of the circumstances over the entire relevant time period.
It is worth noting that Miss Bs OPS didnt have a fund value. The contributions she made to 
her OPS, prior to the pension becoming deferred, didnt contribute to a pension fund in that 
way. Instead she accumulated a guaranteed income in retirement, as a fraction of her final 
salary. In order to be able to transfer her deferred OPS benefits, her OPS administrators 
needed to calculate a CETV. Which would roughly work out the expected cost at that time to 
provide her with her guaranteed benefits at her normal retirement age. It required actuaries 
to calculate this, so wasnt straightforward. Once provided however, it came with a period where the CETV was guaranteed. After that, it would need to be calculated again to account 
for changes in the market conditions.
Miss Bs OPS administrators provided CETV2 to her on 22 March 2022. It was guaranteed 
to 17 June 2022. Although the administrator stated that the application needed to be 
received by 27 May 2022. This gave just under three months for Miss B to obtain financial 
advice on the suitability of a transfer, consider that advice carefully, then assuming that she 
then still wanted to transfer, to complete the application to a SIPP and process the transfer. 
SJP explain that its financial advice process involves providing abridged advice initially. The 
result of this initial assessment would either be that a transfer is unsuitable, or that it isnt 
clearly unsuitable. If it is the latter, the client will have the choice to proceed to full advice 
where more detailed analysis is carried out in order to provide a personal recommendation. 
I can see from the correspondence that Miss B was the driving force in pursuing this OPS 
transfer. She demonstrated a clear plan and desire to transfer this pension. Even before she 
received a formal recommendation from SJP. But I wouldnt expect SJP to simply rubber 
stamp this transfer because Miss B wanted it. Its job was to consider whether it was in 
Miss Bs best interests taking everything into consideration. And, if it didnt think it was, to 
explain that to Miss B with clear reasoning. In short, I dont think SJP were wrong to follow all 
of the steps in its process to ensure that Miss B got the correct advice. 
SJP have shown us the literature it provided Miss B at the outset. That explains DB transfers 
and provides a clear and reasonable explanation. It made it clear to Miss B that SJP was 
unable to guarantee the timescale of the process. Which was fair. There are elements to this 
process that are outside of SJPs control. Nonetheless, I would still expect to see that SJP 
conducted itself in a way to ensure it acted in Miss Bs best interests. Which would include 
acting promptly in order to progress Miss Bs advice in a timely manner. 
SJP didnt start to give advice in February 2022 because it was aware that CETV1 would 
expire long before the process could be completed. It recognised that a different CETV could 
produce a different recommendation. Which I think was fair. Furthermore, when Miss Bs 
transfer request was considered by SJPs Business Assurance team (who would make a final 
determination on suitability) on 28 June 2022 it was unable to give an answer because the 
CETV was unknown by that stage. So I think that SJP clearly recognised the importance of 
having certainty about the CETV in order to provide Miss B with a safe recommendation. So 
ought to be able to process a transfer application within the guarantee period where it had 
the full period available.
In this instance though, SJP have shown us that it didnt receive evidence of CETV2 from 
Miss B until 25 April 2022. And that Miss B signed the agreement to go to abridged advice 
on 28 April 2022. Which was over a month after Miss B received CETV2 from her OPS 
administrators. 
SJP explain that this was because Miss B didnt want it to continue the process whilst she 
was challenging the drop in the CETV with her OPS administrators. Miss B disputes this and 
doesnt understand why SJP were not working on her transfer. So Ive considered the 
evidence to decide, on a balance of probability, what was most likely here.
Firstly, I think that Miss B ought to have understood that SJP werent looking into her transfer 
based on CETV1. SJP made it clear in its messages that it couldnt provide advice in that 
time frame and that it would need a new CETV. I have also seen correspondence between 
Miss B and her OPS administrators that make it quite clear that Miss B was unhappy with 
how much lower CETV2 was than CETV1. She was pursuing that with them, requesting that 
the matter be referred back to the administrators actuaries. So I dont think that, certainly initially, Miss B was accepting the lower CETV. 
Overall, Im persuaded that SJP were legitimately on hold until Miss B instructed them to go 
ahead with the advice process. Which was on 28 April 2022. So I dont think that SJP were 
responsible for the part of the guarantee period lost between 22 March and 28 April 2022. 
And SJP understood that the OPS administrator appeared to require transfer information by 
27 May 2022.
Ive considered whether SJP caused any unreasonable delays after 28 April 2022. Ive kept 
in mind that meant SJP had around four weeks until the OPS required the transfer 
application to be received. SJP have said that it didnt think that left enough time to secure 
the transfer. And given all of the necessary steps I outlined above, Im inclined to agree. I 
can see that SJP made Miss B aware of this fact. Which I think was fair. And that it 
suggested Miss B could enquire whether her OPS administrators would extend the deadline.  
Which she did.
Confirmation that the deadline would be extended until 27 June 2022 wasnt given until 
23 May 2022. This was actually quite a short extension as it was simply extending the 
ultimate deadline of 17 June 2022. So Im not that sure that this gave SJP any more of a 
realistic chance to complete its process at this point either. I think it could have made this 
clear to Miss B. But I think it was also clear that Miss B was in a hurry. So it wasnt 
unreasonable that SJP tried to make use of the limited time to progress her case. But I think 
it could have managed her expectations about that a little better than it did.
It provided abridged advice which didnt rule the transfer as unsuitable. And proceeded 
immediately to full advice. This happened in a relatively timely way, considering what is 
involved. But SJP didnt have a final personal recommendation for Miss B by the deadline of 
27 June 2022. It had conducted the analysis but the circumstances were still awaiting an 
assessment of suitability. I dont think its unreasonable for SJP to have assurance 
processes in place for recommendations that have such an impact on its clients. Its 
explained that the details were with its assurance team by 22 June 2022. And that SJPs 
adviser had requested Miss Bs case be expedited. SJP have explained that it requires up to 
10 working days to review and decide these cases. But Ive also seen that it had been 
looked at by 28 June 2022 (four working days after referral). When it was immediately 
rejected because it appeared that the CETV would have expired.
Here again, I dont think it was unreasonable of SJP to decline making a personal 
recommendation about an OPS transfer where the CETV was unknown. It had a Transfer 
Value Comparator (TVC) for CETV2. Which didnt indicate the transfer value being 
especially good value. And it had transfer analysis that indicated critical yields that didnt 
necessarily look achievable. I accept that these factors may not have been the reasons that 
would have justified a transfer. But needed to be weighed up. And it also meant that a new 
CETV, that may be of a lower value, would have an impact on whether or not it was suitable 
for SJP to recommend this transfer to Miss B.
Miss B has provided a considerable amount of correspondence about what happened on 
27 June 2022 when SJP sent transfer paperwork to the OPS administrators. I think that the 
basic facts here are quite clear. SJP sent incomplete transfer paperwork to the OPS. The 
transfer pack had a section to be completed by the receiving scheme and a section to be 
completed by the IFA, with a declaration that advice had been given. And these were not 
completed.
Whilst I can see that this meant that the OPS administrator couldnt accept the transfer, I 
dont think this was a mistake that caused CETV2 to be missed. I say that because I dont 
think it was an oversight of SJPs. I wouldnt expect it to complete the IFA declaration because it hadnt provided Miss B with her formal recommendation at that point. And it 
couldnt complete the receiving scheme part, because Miss B hadnt set up a receiving SIPP 
at that point either. Because she hadnt received a recommendation that it was suitable to do 
so. SJP simply werent able to complete these parts of the form.
I can see that SJP contacted the OPS to enquire about the minimum it needed to try to 
secure CETV2. And it appears that it did this in response to Miss Bs clear statements about 
wanting the transfer as soon as possible. I think that sending incomplete forms before a 
personal recommendation has been issued, and that recommendation considered and 
accepted, is jumping the gun. But it appears that the adviser expected that the 
recommendation would likely be to support a transfer. So was making an attempt to try to 
secure CETV2. Even though, it was destined to be unsuccessful. 
For these reasons Im not persuaded that I can say that the actions taken on 27 June 2022 
were what caused the CETV2 deadline to be missed. I think it was a combination of factors 
that led up until that point.
I think that SJPs reliance on a guaranteed CETV to provide advice is an indicator that it 
ought to be able to complete the advice process within a normal three month deadline 
window. Otherwise it would indefinitely be sending clients to the start of its process each 
time a CETV expired. But I can also see that the steps required in the process, primarily to 
ensure suitable advice and the correct protection for the client, and SJP, mean that it will 
always be tight. It will require most of the guarantee period as well as the absence of other 
delays. I think that the delay in SJP getting the agreement to give advice, caused by the 
uncertainty over whether or not Miss B would accept CETV2, meant that SJP didnt have 
enough time.
For these reasons, I dont think that SJP could reasonably have done anything else to make 
this transfer happen before the deadline for CETV2 expired. I would like to reassure Miss B 
that, where there were issues she raised or commented on, I have considered them all. She 
will notice that I havent commented on every specific point she may have made. Thats 
because our services aim is to provide a quick resolution with the minimum formality. So Ive 
focused on the things that I consider had the greatest bearing on what I think is the crux of 
Miss Bs complaint.
Like our investigator, whilst I dont think the issues on and after 27 June 2022 caused 
CETV2 to be missed, I agree that the way it was handled contributed to the distress and 
inconvenience Miss B suffered. I think it ought to have been apparent to SJP that it hadnt 
given Miss B a recommendation to transfer. So it wasnt really in a position to try to submit 
an incomplete application. And should have been clearer with Miss B that the deadline 
would, more likely than not, be missed. Whilst I understand the desire to try to help Miss B 
get what she wanted, SJP should have managed her expectation better. This failing caused 
her to think that shed secured CETV2. And to continue corresponding with her OPS 
administrator to argue her case. I think this led to additional inconvenience. And SJP should 
pay Miss B £250 compensation for this distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Miss Bs complaint. Albeit not for the reasons that she 
raised. St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc must pay Miss B £250 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 Gary Lane
Ombudsman