DRN-3286855
The complaint
Mr B complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) failed to notify him 
when his commercial motor insurance policy lapsed, causing him to be stopped by the police 
for driving without insurance.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
In October 2017, Mr B was stopped by the police for driving without insurance. Hes said he 
paid a fine of £300, received points on his licence and his van was recovered to a storage 
facility at a cost. Mr B says he assumed hed made an error by not renewing his policy so 
chose not to pursue the matter at the time. But hes said the situation had significant impact 
on him and his livelihood. 
Mr B says he was demoted due to the points on his licence which resulted in a significant 
reduction in income, and he was already in a very stressful and upsetting situation because 
his partner and their son were in hospital at the time.
In 2020 Mr B contacted Advantage to find out what had happened. It said the policy was set 
to auto renew, but during a call with his partner in 2016, an administration error caused the 
policy not to automatically renew the following year. It said a letter was sent to Mr B telling 
him in advance it wouldnt be automatically renewing his policy and that he needed to 
contact it if he did want to renew it. The policy lapsed in July 2017 because Mr B didnt get in 
contact. Advantage acknowledged it didnt notify Mr B that the policy had lapsed and said 
normally it would have done this. 
Advantage offered Mr B £250 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
error. It said it would consider any evidence of financial losses incurred as a result but said 
that Mr B didnt contact it for three years after the error was made. Advantage said if it were 
made aware sooner of the impact to Mr B, it could have explained what had happened to the 
police to help mitigate any impact.
Mr B didnt think Advantage had done enough put things right for him and brought his 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it 
be upheld. She thought that although Advantage had made an error in not setting the policy 
to automatically renew, they informed Mr B that the policy was going to lapse and gave him 
the opportunity to renew it manually.
As Mr B didnt respond to this letter, our investigator didnt think it likely that a further letter 
saying the policy had lapsed would have made a difference  even though she thought that 
letter should have been sent. She thought £250 was a fair reflection of the inconvenience 
caused by Advantages error in all the circumstances.
Mr B didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this will be hugely disappointing for Mr B. 
Ill explain my reasoning below.
Its not in dispute that Advantage made an error which stopped the policy automatically 
renewing. Nor is it in dispute that it didnt inform Mr B that the policy had lapsed in July 2017. 
Ive considered the impact of these errors, and whether Advantage is responsible for Mr B 
being stopped by the police and the consequences that followed.
Advantage wrote to Mr B in July 2017 to inform him that he needed to contact them if he 
wanted to renew the policy, and that it would be cancelled if it didnt hear from him. Ive seen 
this letter and Im satisfied it is clear that the policy wont auto renew and will cancel unless 
Mr B calls it. So, while Advantage made an error in taking the policy off the auto renew 
schedule  it did what it needed to to make Mr B aware his policy wasnt going to renew 
without further action from him.
Mr B says he didnt receive this letter and I dont question that. But Advantage has provided 
a copy which is correctly addressed - and evidence from its systems showing it was sent in 
July 2017. Im satisfied Advantage met its obligation to inform Mr B that the policy would end 
if he didnt contact them. Its possible that Mr B didnt receive the letter, but thats not due to 
any error on Advantages part.
Although Advantage informed Mr B that the policy needed to be renewed, it failed to tell him 
that the policy had lapsed  and I think it should have told him. Mr B says that if he was told 
the policy had lapsed, he would have been sure to renew it or find cover elsewhere and 
wouldnt have driven uninsured. I appreciate that in hindsight, this is the action Mr B would 
likely have taken. But unfortunately for Mr B, Im not persuaded this is the action he would 
likely have taken at the time.
I say this because Mr B wasnt aware of  and didnt respond to  Advantages renewal 
letter. He may or may not have received this first letter, but on balance I dont think its likely 
that a second letter would have made any difference. Mr B has explained that he was in an 
extremely difficult and upsetting situation at the time because his partner and their son were 
in hospital. Renewing his policy may not have been a priority for Mr B at the time - 
understandably so. 
But I think its more likely than not that Mr B wouldnt have renewed the policy even if 
Advantage had contacted him again as unfortunately his personal situation remained the 
same. Had the second letter been sent, Im not persuaded Mr B would have first seen it and 
read it and then secondly, acted on it. I think its more likely, because his mind was 
understandably on other things, that he would have been stopped by the police regardless, 
because at the time he wasnt thinking about needing to renew or take out a new policy.
The situation caused a significant impact on Mr B, but I cant reasonably conclude that 
Advantages errors were the main cause of that impact. And so, I dont find it responsible for 
the losses he incurred. Advantages errors did cause some inconvenience to Mr B, but I 
think its offer of £250 fairly reflects this, so I wont be requiring it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman