DRN-3173578
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to process an income payment 
from her pension in a timely manner. As a result the payment was made in the subsequent 
tax year. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2021. In that decision I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what Aviva needed to do in order to put 
things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for 
completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mrs J holds pension savings with Aviva. She is assisted in the ongoing management 
of those pension savings by a financial advisor. On 18 March 2019 her financial 
advisor requested that Aviva crystallise some of Mrs Js pension savings, paying her 
a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  otherwise known as tax free cash) and 
then an income payment from the remaining funds.
It appears that the input of that request wasnt straightforward due to the design of 
Avivas systems. The financial advisor says that the request was discussed with 
Avivas helpdesk to ensure that it was being input correctly and in the most effective 
way.
Mrs Js PCLS payment was made on 25 March as expected. However following that 
her financial advisor needed to provide a further instruction for the income payment. 
That instruction was given on 26 March. Mrs Js financial advisor spoke with Aviva on 
2 April to seek an assurance that the income payment would be made before the end 
of the tax year. The income payment to Mrs J wasnt actually made until 9 April and 
so fell into the following tax year.
Mrs J has said that, as a result of the delay to that payment, she would be unable to 
take further income the following year without incurring a tax liability. So she asked 
Aviva to make a compensatory payment to her equivalent to the additional tax she 
would need to pay.
This isnt an easy complaint to decide. Avivas processes for making the payment 
appear to be complex and far from straightforward. During the time we have been 
considering the complaint Aviva has itself at times been unable to accurately 
describe the steps that Mrs Js financial advisor needed to take to ensure the income 
payment was made. And that situation was no doubt made even more difficult by the 
time pressures that were presented by the approaching end of the tax year.
I think it is widely accepted that payments being requested at that time of year might 
take a little longer to complete than would be the case at other less busy times of the 
year. And it is for that entirely understandable reason that firms provide advisors with 
advance notice of the payment cut off dates that would need to be met to ensure 
payments are made before the end of the tax year. And here, Aviva says that the 
second instruction  for the income payment  was made after its published deadline. 
So it says it is entirely reasonable that the end of tax year deadline was missed.
But I think I also need to take account of the impacts that Avivas processing 
arrangements had on that payment. There seems to be no doubt that Mrs Js 
financial advisor started the process  for paying the PCLS and then the income 
payment  in good time according to Avivas published deadlines. And I am mindful 
of the testimony presented by the financial advisor that it discussed the payment on 
more than one occasion with Avivas helpdesk. So I struggle in this case to find any 
fault with the timeliness of the actions of the financial advisor.
I dont however entirely share the conclusions that the financial advisor drew from the 
phone call it had with Aviva on 2 April. Ive listened to a recording of that call and 
would conclude that the answer given by Aviva was at best non-committal. I think the 
Aviva advisor, perhaps intentionally, failed to give the financial advisor any guarantee 
that the payment would be made within that tax year. But I dont think that has much 
bearing on this decision  by that time I think it would be reasonable to conclude that, 
given the other pressures Aviva was no doubt facing at that time of the year, it was 
too late for any changes to be made to Mrs Js payment.
 
I think that the financial advisor started the payment process in good time considering 
Avivas published timetable. And I think that, from the testimony provided by the 
financial advisor, it had a reasonable expectation that Mrs J would receive her 
income payment in that tax year. So I dont think the delay caused to the payment 
was reasonable. It appears that the financial advisor acted promptly and correctly at 
each stage of the process  but Avivas system design failed to allow the payment to 
be made in a timely manner. I think that, since the process had started before Avivas 
processing deadline, Aviva should have been on notice that it might need to act 
quickly at the end to ensure the payment was made in the correct tax year.
So on balance I think that Mrs Js complaint should be upheld, and Aviva needs to 
pay her some compensation.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Mrs J thinks that my provisional decision provides a clear picture of the 
circumstances of the complaint and she is happy with the proposed resolution. Aviva doesnt 
agree with my provisional findings and has provided two responses. Although I am only 
summarising the contents of those responses below, I want to reassure Aviva that I have 
read them both in their entirety.
Avivas first response explained that it didnt agree with my provisional findings. In particular 
it explained that the transaction was part of a fully automated process led by Mrs Js advisor. 
So it says it wouldnt have been aware of the advisors intention to request an income 
payment and so couldnt prepare for that to be made. Its back-office staff are there to assist 
with the advisors instructions but cannot over-ride the automated process. It says that the 
income payment instruction wasnt made until 25 March. That was after its processing cut off 
of 21 March and so the payment was correctly made in the following tax year. It says there 
was no delay to Mrs Js income payment.In its second response Aviva said it hoped to explain more clearly how its processes were 
used to make Mrs Js income payment. It said that in order to pay Mrs Js PCLS and make 
an income payment some of her pre-retirement savings needed to be crystalised. So it says 
that its process required invested assets to be moved to a post retirement account to allow 
the generation of the PCLS  it says this was instructed on 18 March. When that transfer 
completed, on 23 March, the advisor was able to instruct the sale of the transferred pension 
savings to pay the income. The instruction was given on 26 March and completed as 
planned on 9 April. The second part of the instruction was given after the processing cut off, 
and so the income payment was correctly made in the subsequent tax year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Aviva has said. I do note that Aviva felt it necessary to 
provide two responses, in order to better explain how its processes work. I think that 
underlines what I said in my provisional decision about these processes appearing to be 
complex and far from straightforward. But I dont think that Avivas further explanations 
highlight any fundamental misunderstanding in the description I provided in my provisional 
decision of what happened.
I have previously said that Mrs Js financial advisor had a number of conversations with 
Aviva about how this transaction needed to be instructed. Whilst I accept Avivas explanation 
that those staff couldnt intervene on the automated process, I think at the very least they 
failed to provide sufficient clarity to the advisor about how long the end to end process would 
take to complete. I accept what Mrs Js advisor says, when he says he had a reasonable 
expectation from those, and subsequent, phone calls that the income payment would be 
completed before the end of the tax year.
Fundamentally, what Aviva has described to me, is a process that does not allow a 
consumer to put their pension into payment, and then take some income, via a single 
instruction. It is a two-stage process with a corresponding processing timescale. I cannot 
accept that timescale was made sufficiently clear to Mrs Js advisor when he discussed the 
transaction with Aviva.
So I remain of the opinion that the overall instruction, as discussed with Avivas back office 
team, was instructed well before the end of tax year processing deadline. It only failed to 
complete due to the design of Avivas processes. So I continue to think that Mrs Js 
complaint should be upheld, and Aviva needs to pay her the compensation I set out in my 
provisional decision, and repeated below for clarity.  
Putting things right
My aim in directing any redress would normally be to place Mrs J back into the position she 
would have been should the error not have happened. But given the complexities of the tax 
year arrangements, and that a further tax year has now passed, that will not be possible.
My understanding is that Mrs J didnt incur an income tax liability on the income payment 
that is the subject of this complaint  the tax that was initially deducted by Aviva was 
reclaimed from HMRC. But the delay to the payment meant that Mrs J was unable to take a 
further income payment that tax year without incurring a tax liability. So although Mrs J 
hasnt actually paid income tax that would not have been due had the payment been made 
in a more timely manner, she has effectively gone without a years worth of income.So given the above I see little benefit here in asking Aviva to try and make any corrections to 
the payment it reported to HMRC. The benefit of that would have been seen in the tax year 
2019 to 2020 that has already passed. And as Ive explained above I dont think Mrs J has 
actually incurred any direct taxation losses as a result of the delay.
But the delayed payment has undoubtedly had a relatively serious impact on Mrs Js 
retirement planning, meaning that her expected income was disrupted. I think it reasonable 
to assume that over time that disruption will be absorbed via further income planning, but 
that doesnt lead me to conclude it should be ignored.
So I think it is fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to make a payment of £500 to Mrs J to 
reflect the trouble and upset the delays have caused in disrupting her retirement planning. 
I think a payment of that amount is a fair resolution to this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman