DRN-4259734
Complaint
Mrs A complains she was mis-sold an investment she made in a bond issued by Basset & 
Gold Plc (B&G plc). She says she was led to believe that all funds were fully secured 
and security backed, but now knows that was not the case and therefore thinks she was 
misled. She would like to be compensated for the loss of capital suffered by the 
investment. 
Background
The B&G Plc Bond
Mrs A made two investments in B&G Plc bonds. The first (made in December 2017) was 
surrendered, and Mrs As capital returned in full. She has not received any return from her 
second investment (made in January 2018) in a B&G Plc 3 Year Fixed Monthly Income 
Bond. That investment is hence the subject of her complaint. Sales of these bonds were 
dealt with by Basset Gold Ltd (BG Ltd), a separate business from B&G Plc, the issuer of 
the bonds. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bonds. And it was 
responsible for advertising and marketing the bonds. Potential investors were also able to 
call BG Ltd, to discuss the bonds.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
(Gallium). B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 
February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Basset Gold Finance Ltd (BGF)  an independently authorised business, which was not
connected to Gallium  took over from BG Ltd at some point in 2018. Gallium says this
happened before the appointed representative agreement between it and BG Ltd came to an
end and has made submissions on this point  albeit inconsistent ones. For the remainder of
this background section I have referred to BG Ltd as the business Mrs A interacted with, but
the point of dispute is noted and I will consider in my findings whether Mrs A actually dealt
with BGF instead.
Mrs A and the investment in the bond
Mrs A invested a total of £50,000 in the bond. 
BG Ltds log of applications records the following:
The certificate for the bond records the application date as 25 January 2018. The certificate 
for Mrs As first bond investment records the application date as 29 December 2017  so it 
appears BG Ltds records relate to that first application. 
Type Date Type Date
Everyday Investor 2017-12-29 07:53:54 KYC Completed 2017-12-29 14:19:34
B&G T&C Confirmed 2017-12-29 07:54:39
Completed Investor Questionnaire2017-12-29 07:54:12Investor Tags Legal TagsMrs A has limited recollection of the application process, but told us: 
Interest rates were emailed to me after discussions with my appointed account manager on 
how to set up the account and transfer the funds then await the bond certificate. 
At the time she invested Mrs A was retired, and she says the money she invested formed 
part of her pension and savings. 
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay day 
lender, called Uncle Buck. Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration 
in March 2020 - and B&G Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mrs A 
has not had her invested capital returned to her.
The application process
I have seen screen prints of each stage of BG Ltds online application process. These show 
the online application journey that potential investors underwent. This consisted of two 
stages, designed to meet the rules restricting who the bonds could be promoted to and on 
how to test whether the investments were appropriate for the potential investor. The first was 
certification. The second was the appropriateness test. 
As noted above, there is no record of Mrs As second application i.e. the one relating to the 
bond subject to complaint. 
Galliums response to Mrs As complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mrs As complaint. It said BGF was regulated and authorised by the 
FCA from 2 January 2018 and, as Mrs As bond was issued after that date, BGF was 
responsible for the promotion of the bond. 
Gallium then made further submissions, once Mrs As complaint was referred to us. I have 
considered the submissions in full. I have also considered what Gallium describes as its 
position statement, which sets out general information on the background to complaints 
about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mrs As complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
Its difficult to say whether or not Mrs A qualified as a restricted investor as she is 
unsure how much she had in savings in at the relevant times. But it is unlikely she 
wouldve been aware the bonds had a significant risk associated with them, and had 
made investments in similar products in the last 30 months.
So had BG Ltd used the correct terms and description of a restricted investor, then 
Mrs A may not have got past this stage of the application. Due to the lack of 
information available, its very difficult to know whether or not Mrs A met the definition 
of any of the other categories  but what is in little doubt is that not enough 
information was sought to find this out.
The assessment of the appropriateness of the bonds for Mrs A was misleading and 
didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the FCAs rules.Had BG Ltds process met what was required under the rules and sufficiently asked 
Mrs A about her knowledge and experience then BG Ltd ought to have reasonably 
concluded that Mrs A did not have the necessary knowledge and experience to make 
the bond an appropriate investment for her. 
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mrs A wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mrs A to invest. For these reasons it was fair to 
uphold the complaint and for Gallium to compensate Mrs A for the loss she has 
suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary: 
Regardless of label, Mrs A was required to confirm that she met the requirements of 
a restricted investor and confirmed that she did. It is not fair or reasonable to 
conclude that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mrs A giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration.
The appropriateness test answers and the confirmations Mrs A gave were sufficient 
for Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mrs A made the investments on the understanding they had risk associated with 
them, and did not choose to surrender them when receiving the email in 2019 which 
warned of the concentration risk. So she would have proceeded with the investments 
regardless. 
Gallium also made submissions on what it describes as the interim period. On this point 
Gallium said, in summary:
Basset Gold Finance (BGF) was authorised by the FCA on 2 January 2018 and 
began to promote the bonds to investors from that date. In particular, it understands 
that the website and telephone line was the responsibility of BGF from that date. 
At no point was BGF an appointed representative of Gallium, and Gallium had no 
responsibility for the actions of BGF. Our investigator has not found that Mrs A 
actually spoke to anyone at B&G plc and BG Ltd for whose conduct Gallium had any 
responsibility, or that Gallium actually approved the content of the website through 
which Mrs A invested and which contained the certification and appropriateness 
questions which form the basis for the view. Rather, the available evidence suggests 
that Mrs A applied to invest through a website process approved by BGF.
Gallium also provided a witness statement from its former director, dated 16 February 2023, 
which says:
He understands that the only regulated activities that continued to be carried out by 
BG Ltd in the interim period, were that BG Ltd remained responsible for the making 
of telephone calls with investors or prospective investors concerning their bond 
investments.It is his understanding that: 
oSave in relation to telephone calls between Basset & Gold representatives 
and investors/prospective investors in the bonds, during the interim period all 
regulated activities relating to the financial promotions concerning the B&G 
plc bonds, as well as activities concerning the arranging of bond investments, 
were conducted by BGF. 
oBG Ltd continued to be responsible for the content of telephone calls between 
Basset & Gold.
On 4 January 2018, he received an email from the owner of Basset & Gold, which 
confirmed that Basset & Gold (she says this meant BGF) had been authorised by the 
FCA.  The owner requested a meeting to discuss the best way to transition the 
regulatory business away from Gallium to the new firm.
He believes the meeting took place on 11 January 2018. No notes are available but 
she recalls what was discussed. 
I asked  on another complaint  for various points of clarification on what is said in the 
witness statement, and for contemporaneous evidence to support it. At the time of issuing 
my provisional decision I had not received a response to that request. However, for the 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision  which I quote below  I was satisfied I could 
proceed with this particular complaint without that further information. 
My provisional findings
I recently issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings were as follows: 
Given what Gallium says about the interim period  that it is not responsible for the act(s) 
this complaint relates to - I have first considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whether we can consider Mrs As complaint. 
It is not clear how exactly Mrs As application came about, and therefore on what basis it 
proceeded. But it seems more likely than not Mrs A completed an online form. Ill consider 
this further later in this decision. But, for now, it is sufficient to say Mrs As complaint is about 
the arrangement of her investment in the bond and the exchanges she had with the 
representative in the period up to the arrangement of the investment being concluded. In 
short Mrs A says she was misled during those exchanges. 
Rule DISP 2.3.1R says we can;
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by 
a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, including advice, 
carried on by the firm in connection with them.
And the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which 
the firmhas accepted responsibility).
This guidance is drawn from the relevant legislation, which is paragraph 3 of s39 to the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMSA): the principal [here, Gallium] of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same 
extent as if she had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative 
in carrying on the business for which she has accepted responsibility.
So I need to consider whether Mrs As complaint is about a regulated activity, carried on by 
an appointed representative of Gallium, for which Gallium accepted responsibility. 
Is Mrs As complaint about a regulated activity? 
I am satisfied Mrs As complaint relates to a regulated activity. The bond was a security or 
contractually based investment specified in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). At the time Mrs A made her investment, the RAO 
said regulated activities include arranging deals in investments. Acts such as obtaining and 
assisting in the completion of an application form and sending it off, with the clients 
payment, to the investment issuer would come within the scope of Article 25(1), when the 
arrangements have the direct effect of bringing about the transaction. So I am satisfied the 
application process falls within the scope of Article 25(1). It involved making arrangements 
for Mrs A to invest in the bond, and had the direct effect of bringing about the transaction.
Was Gallium responsible for the acts the complaint is about? 
Under the appointed representative agreement in place between BG Ltd and Gallium, in 
relation to bonds, BG Ltd was allowed to carry out promoting activitieswhere the Company 
has approved the financial promotion. And Gallium allowed BG Ltd the right under its 
authorisation with the FCA to give advice in connection with advising, arranging, or dealing 
in investment products for present and prospective clients and in connection therewith to 
display, advertise, promote, . for the sole purpose of promoting the sale of the same. 
This agreement was in force during the period up to the date of investment  29 January 
2018. So, if BG Ltd carried out the arrangements, that is business for which Gallium 
accepted responsibility and the complaint can therefore be considered against it. 
I note Gallium, in its response to the view, says from 2 January 2018 BGF began to promote 
the bonds to investors and that the website and telephone line was the responsibility of BGF 
from that date. However  save for the witness statement, which is unclear on several points 
and in any event inconsistent with the position set out in response to the view  it has 
provided no evidence to support this point. 
I will turn to the witness statement shortly. The evidence available otherwise all shows it was 
BG Ltd  not BGF  which made the arrangements in this case. 
Mrs A made a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), having been 
told by Gallium that BGF was responsible (BGF is in FSCS default). The FSCS rejected the 
claim, concluding Gallium was responsible. 
I share the view of the FSCS. I have seen the following evidence:  
A letter to Mrs A dated 15 February 2018 confirming the investment had been made, 
and attaching a certificate. This letter was from BG Ltd and the address given was 23 
Finsbury Circus, London EC2M 7EA - BG Ltds registered addresses around that 
time. 
A copy of the Investor Terms and Conditions sent to Mrs A. These refer to BG Ltd 
throughout (making no reference to BGF) and say, at the outset Basset Gold Ltd 
(firm reference number 771886) is an appointed representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Ltd
In my view this demonstrates BG Ltd was responsible for arranging the investment, not BGF. 
I think the letter, in particular, is strong evidence BG Ltd  and therefore Gallium  is 
responsible for arranging the investment in the bond. 
Gallium says the available evidence suggests that Mrs A applied to invest through a website 
process approved by BGF. In my view it is not clear whether Mrs A applied online at all  a 
point Ill return to later  but I have not seen any evidence of the type Gallium refers to. As I 
have set out, I have not seen any evidence specific to this investment which makes any 
reference to BGF- all references are to BG Ltd.
To be clear, I have not seen any evidence to show BGF took responsibility from 2 January 
2018, as Gallium response to the investigators view says, or that it had any involvement in 
Mrs As investment. All the evidence I have seen supports a contrary position. 
All in all, I am satisfied Mrs As complaint is about acts for which Gallium accepted 
responsibility. They are therefore acts of Gallium and can be considered in a complaint 
against it.
The merits of Mrs As complaint 
As I am satisfied Mrs As complaint is one I can look at I will now consider all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.  
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
The bonds were non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting who they 
could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached similar overall 
conclusions to the investigator, for similar reasons. In summary:
There is limited evidence as to how Mrs As application proceeded, as BG Ltds 
records only refer to the first application she made, not the second application for the 
bond which is the subject of this complaint. But it seems likely  in the absence of any other evidence - an online application was completed, either in relation to the first 
bond and relied on again in relation to the second bond, or independently from the 
application for the first bond.  
Ultimately, Mrs A had to fall under one of the investor categories set out in COBS 
4.7.9R and COBS 4.7.10R in order to be eligible to receive a direct offer promotion of 
the bond. And there is insufficient evidence to show she would have met the 
definition of one of these categories or  additionally or alternatively - would have 
agreed to be put into one of them, if the process was consistent with the relevant 
rules. 
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium did not meet the 
requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the bond 
was not an appropriate investment for Mrs A.
In the circumstances, Mrs A would not or could not have proceeded or, acting fairly 
and reasonably, BG Ltd should have concluded it should not promote the bond to 
Mrs A. 
Overall, I am satisfied Mrs A would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations.
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mrs As complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mrs A would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mrs A for her loss.
Responses to my provisional decision 
In response to my provisional decision Gallium provided a general submission which 
contained some further evidence relating to what it describes as the interim period. This 
included:
A copy of the 4 January 2018 email from the owner of Basset & Gold referred to in 
the witness statement.
Copies of Galliums Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report for 
Basset Gold, for each month from February 2017 to February 2018. 
Copies of the documents applying to terminate BG Ltd as Galliums appointed 
representative, submitted by Gallium to the FCA on 1 March 2018, and some 
associated emails. 
Some email correspondence between Gallium and BG Ltds compliance officer about 
B&G Plc becoming an appointed representative of BGF, and the transfer of approved 
persons. 
A list of calls made by B&G Ltd which Gallium had monitored, month on month. 
Mrs A accepted my provisional decision.My findings
I have first reconsidered the interim period point. I have reconsidered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whether we can consider Mrs As complaint  i.e. 
whether Gallium is responsible for the act(s) this complaint relates to. I have not been 
persuaded to change my view on this point. 
I have carefully considered the additional evidence Gallium has submitted but, in my view, 
this only further supports the conclusion that Gallium was responsible for making 
arrangements for Mrs A to invest in the bond and the complaint is therefore one we can 
consider against it. 
The 4 January 2018 email from the owner of Basset & Gold referred to in the witness 
statement includes the following: 
As you know we have applied for authorisation with a new company a few months ago and I 
am happy to inform you that we have now been authorised.
 
As discussed we will transition the regulatory business away from Gallium to the new firm, 
but wanted to discuss with you the best way to get this done. I will be in London next week 
on Thursday if you would like to meet.
 
As far as ISA manager goes, this will stay as is, as agreed.
 
Please let me know if you have any matters you think we should take into consideration and 
as always any advice and guidance will be greatly appreciated.
In the January 2018 Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report the following 
questions are asked of Basset Gold:
Does the Appointed Representative stationery (including website) properly identify the firm 
as an Appointed Representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited? And have you provided 
copies to Gallium?
Have you attached a list of all investors you have promoted to this month?
Have all investors been categorised as appropriate to receive the financial promotions prior 
to promotion and such categories kept on file? 
Each of these questions was answered Yes. 
Attached to the January 2018 Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report is a 
report all the investment business undertaken that month  which includes Mrs As 25 
January 2018 investment. 
Although the report refers to Basset Gold and not specifically to either of the appointed 
representative businesses it clearly relates  at least insofar as what I refer to above - to the 
activities of BG Ltd, as it was BG Ltd  not B&G Plc  which operated the website, made 
promotions and arranged investments. 
The copy of the report we have been given also features a post-it note stuck to the report of 
all the investment business, which says: Pls note the total of money raised for B&G for Series 6 & 7/ They may need to consider new 
loan documents soon. Although probably will not be our issue as terminating end of Feb, but 
worth mentioning to them
Finally, I note the Call Monitoring List provided by Gallium shows it monitored 11 calls in 
January 2018  more than it had monitored in any previous month during its relationship with 
BG Ltd. 
In my view this is all evidence BG Ltd was arranging investments in B&G Plc bonds  
including the investment Mrs A made  at the time of Mrs As investment, and was doing so 
as an appointed representative of Gallium. I say this because:
The 4 January 2018 email only refers to an intention to transition away from Gallium 
to BGF, and makes a request to discuss how this might be done. It is not evidence of 
a transition to BGF having already taken place, and of BGF hence being responsible 
from that time. 
The Appointed Representative Monthly Compliance Report is evidence BG Ltd was 
still being described as an appointed representative of Gallium at this time, in 
stationery and on the website. It is also evidence Gallium was monitoring and 
recording promotions and arrangements being made by BG Ltd at that time. This is 
strong evidence Gallium accepted responsibility for the arrangement of investments 
at the time. 
The post-it note on the investment list is clear evidence Gallium understood it was 
responsible for the arrangement of investments until 1 March 2018. 
The fact Gallium was monitoring calls from BG Ltd to investors (or potential 
investors) is further strong evidence Gallium accepted responsibility for the 
arrangement of investments at the time  there is no other reason why such 
monitoring would be taking place. 
It also remains the case, as I set out in my provisional decision, that I have not seen any 
evidence specific to this investment which makes any reference to BGF. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, in making the arrangements. BG Ltd was carrying out 
business for which Gallium had accepted responsibility. So I remain of the view I set out in 
my provisional decision, quoted above (which, to be clear forms part of this final decision) for 
the reasons given there, and the further reasons set out above.  
Turning to the merits of Mrs As complaint again,Ive considered all the available evidence 
and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not been persuaded to change the view set out in my provisional decision. To 
confirm, my final decision is the same as that set out in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons. For those reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that 
Mrs As complaint should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mrs A would either not have 
proceeded to make the investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium 
acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is 
fair to ask Gallium to compensate Mrs A for her loss.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs A as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not invested in the bond.
I take the view that Mrs A would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs A's circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mrs A fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mrs A's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation 
payable.
Pay Mrs A £350 for the distress caused by the complete loss of her investment.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameBenchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional interest
B&G Plc bond Average rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my final 
decision8% simple per year from final 
decision to settlement (if not 
settled within 28 days of the 
business receiving the 
complainant's acceptance)
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mrs A agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take ownership, 
then it may request an undertaking from Mrs A that she repays to Gallium any amount she 
may receive from the investment in future.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Gallium totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically. If any 
distributions or income were automatically paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, they 
must be deducted at the end to determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs A wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mrs A's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mrs A would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
John Pattinson
Ombudsman