DRN-3599924
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way in which Society of Lloyds (SOL) has handled a claim he 
made under his caravan insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C has explained that on 8 June 2019 he and his family were staying at his caravan and 
went out for a little while. When they returned to the caravan the toilet had backed up, and 
sewerage had leaked within the caravan, causing damage to a number of areas. Because of 
the damage, Mr C made a claim under his caravan insurance policy.
Mr C feels SOL, and its appointed representatives, did a poor job of dealing with his claim. 
Hes said there were delays in the progress of the claim, as well as problems with SOL 
failing to accept particular areas of damage. 
And, when some work was completed, Mr C said this was of a poor standard. Mr C has said 
that his caravan has still not been put back into the position it was in prior to the loss. 
SOL has accepted there were avoidable delays in the initial stages of the claim. In
December 2019, it offered Mr C £250 compensation to recognise this, and said £3,200 had 
been offered for alternative accommodation. SOL also said the loss adjuster would contact 
him about issues with the work carried out.
A loss adjuster did contact Mr C about the work carried out. Mr C and the loss adjuster met 
at the caravan and went through Mr Cs concerns. These concerns were summarised as 
follows:
1) New carpet had been laid on top of old in the boiler cupboard
2) There were still sewerage stains on lower parts of wallboards
3) There was still mould and mushroom growth behind a unit
4) Some furniture had been turned round. Mr C wanted the wardrobe removed and the 
carpet replaced under it
5) There were now ridges in the hall and lounge floor that werent there before.
SOL put these concerns to the party that had carried out the work, who Ill call S. The 
repairer, S, said it hadnt carried out any work in the boiler cupboard  both pieces of carpet 
had been there before its involvement. But said it could replace this. It also said it had deep 
cleaned the property, but there were still stains on the wallboards as described above, and it 
could check, clean and spray behind the unit. 
Points four and five werent accepted. S said it didnt go into the main bedroom and touch 
any of the furniture  so it hadnt turned this round. And the ridges in the floor were because 
the new flooring Mr C had chosen was vinyl, not carpet. And the carpet had hidden the 
ridges before. 
SOL then went back to Mr C, and said it wanted to provide S with the opportunity to remedy 
items 1-3. Mr C was reluctant for this to happen but did agree. This was also in January 
2020. 
Mr C says the work wasnt completed. He asked S for his keys in March 2020, to go to the 
caravan, and S said it had never received the keys, until it then made a few calls and found 
them. This meant no work had been carried out in the three months prior. Following this, 
Mr C said SOL had a further opportunity to sort the problems. But in June 2020, the repairer 
still hadnt visited the caravan, despite him sending his keys to them. So, at that point, the 
relationship with the parties broke down, and Mr C said he was no longer happy S to deal 
with the situation any longer.
Mr C has explained that in October 2020, he asked a repair company to come and review 
his caravan and detail what work was outstanding. Which it did. It said:
There were additional areas of flooring in the shower-room, hallway, twin-bedroom 
and lounge that needed to be removed. 
There was damage to a wardrobe and dresser in the main bedroom  with these 
items needing replacing
The wardrobe in the twin-bedroom needed replacing
The fridge-freezer housing needed replacing
All internal walls that had absorbed sewerage needed removing and replacing.
But it didnt provide a quote for the work  noting this was because it didnt have time to 
carry out the job itself.
Because Mr C remained dissatisfied that his caravan wasnt back to pre-loss condition, he 
referred his complaint to this service, for an independent review.
Our investigators opinion
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. They said SOL 
should pay Mr C an additional £250 compensation, for delays between January 2020 and 
March 2020. And they asked for an independent expert to be appointed to review the 
caravan, and the policy, and provide an independent opinion on what needed to be done to 
repair the caravan, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr C accepted the recommendation for an independent expert. But didnt agree the £250 
was fair. He felt this figure was too low  because hed had to pay ground rent to keep his 
caravan on site  when he wasnt able to use it. But he said he would consider this figure if 
the independent expert was able to resolve the outstanding issues with the caravan.
Mr C has since told this service that some ground rent was waived, but he paid around £900 
in these costs. 
SOL accepted the investigators view and said it had always been willing to appoint another 
party to look into the matter. 
But an independent party wasnt appointed. SOL said it had trouble getting an independent 
expert to attend, given the location of the caravan in comparison to the location of the 
experts. So, the loss adjuster met Mr C at the caravan instead, to discuss outstanding 
issues. 
SOL provided a report, which reiterated points one to five above, that is had previously 
discussed with Mr C in January 2020. And reiterated its position on those. But it said the parties were still unable to agree a resolution. It mentioned Mr C had raised the suggestion 
of SOL paying his £14,000. And it didnt agree to this. 
Because the matter remained unresolved this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on upholding this complaint. 
Both parties have provided this service with numerous pieces of information on this 
complaint. And Ive considered them all. However, when explaining the reasons for my 
intended decision Ive only referenced information where this explains my current reasoning.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly, fairly and not unreasonably decline it. So, Ive 
thought about whether SOL, in dealing with this claim, acted in line with these requirements. 
And I dont think it did.
Cover under the policy
Ive seen Mr Cs policy documents. And Im aware the policy provides cover for loss or 
damage to the structure of the caravan, caused by an escape of water, from a fixed water 
installation. The cover is on a new for old basis and also includes £1,000 for contents items.
SOL has accepted that the claim is a valid one, caused by an escape of sewerage water. As 
SOL accepted the claim, I need to consider whether the claim was dealt with in line with this 
cover. As well as whether the progress of the claim was reasonable.
Initial scope of works
There is little evidence from the party that carried out work to the caravan, who Ill call S, as 
to what happened, and why. So, Ive based my current decision on the evidence I do have 
from the parties.
In August 2019, SOL agreed to the following work at the caravan, based on a quote from S. 
Replacement of all floor coverings throughout the caravan, due to damage and 
sewerage contamination
Removal and replacement of the shower, to replace the damaged flooring in the 
shower-room room
A deep clean, including the affected sub-floor, and upholstery in the lounge, including 
curtains
I consider this was a fair schedule of work in the first instance. Ive seen the report from the 
disaster restoration specialist that attended the caravan in August 2020. This made it clear 
the floor coverings needed to be replaced. So, it was reasonable for SOL to include this in 
the work it agreed to undertake.
Reports from the loss adjuster, testimony from the parties, and photographs of the caravan 
show that a deep clean was a fair and reasonable thing to do. I say this because they show 
the caravan had been contaminated by sewerage  with mould and blackwater present. As 
well as damage such as suspected sewerage marks on the wallboards and skirting. The aim of the deep cleaning was to remove all of these contaminants, including smell, and ensure 
the caravan was fit for use again. 
Given the above, Im satisfied the initial scope of works was reasonable, based on what was 
known at the time. However, if the deep clean didnt resolve issues such as the 
contaminated subfloor, skirting and walls, Id expect SOL to then consider an alternative 
method of putting the caravan back in its pre-loss condition.
SOL has shown that some additional damage to the caravan was pre-existing. And so, it 
didnt agree to work on these areas. For example, the seals between the roof and wall 
panelling had deteriorated, which had let water into the caravan, and damaged areas such 
as windows. Having seen the initial loss adjusters report which evidences this, Im satisfied 
that was fair. 
SOL has noted a previous claim for damage to the caravan. And that it settled this. Its 
raised concerns that Mr C may not have completed the work to the caravan following that, 
allowing it to deteriorate  and made it difficult to tell what was damage from a previous 
claim, or this one. But SOL hasnt provided any details of what that claim was for, when it 
was, or what the settlement included. And I havent seen anything to show the damage 
claimed for here was contributed to by a previous loss. 
Given the above, Im satisfied the scope of work initially agreed was reasonable at that time.
Quality of works carried out
I can see that SOL began the above work in September 2019. And Mr C was asked to come 
and sign of the work in December 2019. At that point Mr C raised concerns with the work. He 
didnt feel it put his caravan into a pre-loss condition. So, Ive considered the work carried 
out by SOL and its representatives. And I dont think it put Mr C back in the position he was 
in, before the loss.
Mr C met with the loss adjuster in January 2020, to point out his concerns. Ive seen an 
email SOL sent to S, putting Mr Cs concerns to it. This dated 8 January 2020. The concerns 
noted were as follows:
1) New carpet had been laid on top of old in the boiler cupboard
2) There were still sewerage stains on lower parts of wallboards
3) There was still mould and mushroom growth behind a unit
4) Some furniture had been turned round. Mr C wanted the wardrobe removed and the 
carpet replaced under it.
5) There were now ridges in the hall and lounge floor that werent there before
Some of these concerns were accepted by SOL, and S. These being items 1-3. S had 
responded to the above email and said it hadnt replaced the carpet in the boiler cupboard at 
all. It accepted there were water stains on the lower wallboards  even though these had 
been cleaned. And it said it would check whether there was mould and mushroom growth 
behind the unit. It thought it might be glue marks instead.
S didnt agree to items four and five. S said it hadnt done touched the furniture mentioned 
and said the ridges in the floor were because Mr C had chosen vinyl instead of carpet  so 
the ridges from the boards beneath were simply more visible.Given the above, its clear items 1-3 needed to be remedied. There should have been no 
marks on the wallboards after the cleaning. And because the cleaning hadnt been effective 
 SOL should have sought an alternative resolution to the damage. It had also been 
instructed to replace the floor coverings and clean the whole caravan. So, the boiler 
cupboard carpet should have been replaced, and any mould (if this was present) should 
have been cleaned.
SOL did offer to go back and resolve these issues. But this never happened  for reasons Ill 
discuss later in the decision. But, as these items werent sorted, they do now need to be 
remedied by SOL. 
Im satisfied items four and five dont need to be remedied by SOL. In terms of the wardrobe 
 I havent seen any evidence this was touched by S, or that it was damaged by the escape 
of water. I appreciate Mr Cs own expert said this wardrobe, and the one in the twin bedroom 
needed replacing. But the expert hasnt provided persuasive evidence that replacement is 
needed due to the insured event. In relation to item five, given it was Mr Cs choice of 
flooring, I dont think SOL are responsible for the ridges being visible either.
Mr C has said there were other problems he noticed in December 2019. These were:
The caravan still smelling of sewerage
The subfloor and skirting were very marked with mould and black water
Inside the seating area was water damaged
There was a piece of wood underneath the caravan holding some pipes up
When he checked the shower was working, there was no running water. The water 
instead leaked, including out of the boiler
There is little commentary from SOL on the other issues Mr C raised, including from the 
most recent visit in May 2022. So, Ive needed to consider the information I do have, and 
come to what I consider a fair, reasonable and pragmatic decision from there. 
Sub-floor and floor covering
Ive seen a report from a disaster restoration company  which noted the following in relation 
to this:
On close of the under carriage [sic] of caravan there were visible signs of mould, Blackwater 
and water marks on the under carriage side of chipboard flooring in bathroom, lounge, 
hallway, kitchen, boiler room cupboard and 2 of the bedrooms due to the mould and 
sewerage contamination through both sides of the chipboard, some of the chipboard flooring 
may require removal and replacing. Due to the level of mould and waste water was unable to 
uplift flooring on todays visit, as didnt want to spread any cross contamination to caravan 
contents.
S deep cleaned the subfloor. But Ive seen photos that show me these marks are still 
present. Once the deep cleaning had failed in this area SOL should have looked to a 
different method to repair the damage  and it hasnt. So, I intend of requiring SOL to resolve 
the damage to the subfloor.
Mr C has said that new floor coverings were fitted on top of these contaminated boards. Im 
satisfied this was the case  given the above information about the subfloor. I can appreciate 
how this is likely to have contaminated the new flooring. It has been fitted since at least December 2019, resting on a contaminated area. It therefore seems reasonable to me that 
SOL replace this flooring too. 
Wallboards and skirting
S accepted the wallboards remained waters stained following the loss. Mr C has mentioned 
the skirting too. It seems reasonable to me that the skirting would also be damaged, giving 
this would have been sitting just above the floor, which needed replacing  and on the 
wallboards  which had sustained damage.
The deep cleaning didnt remedy the problem. S accepted there were still water marks 
present. So, SOL should have come up with another repair method  to ensure these stains 
are no longer present. Given an attempt to repair these have failed, it now seems 
reasonable to replace these. 
Shower
As above, Mr C said that when he went to check that the shower, once replaced, was 
working as it should  running water wasnt coming from this  but instead leaked elsewhere. 
Its not clear if this issue is resolved now. But SOL did remove the shower when replacing 
the flooring in this room. And so, Id expect this shower to be replaced, and working again, 
following the repair S completed. But based on what has been said, it appears this wasnt 
the case. Again, its difficult to know the current position with this. But Im satisfied that if 
there is still no running water, SOL should pay for this to be repaired. 
Seating area
Mr C has said that inside of the seating area is damaged. With water having seeped into the 
woodwork and carpet there. Ive only seen one photograph of this area. And no detailed 
commentary from the parties. Mr Cs expert didnt add this in its list of what work remained 
outstanding. As I havent got any firm evidence this was damaged due to the insured event, 
Im not intending on requiring anything further be done here. Should the parties have any 
further evidence to provide, then I will be happy to consider it. 
Wood holding pipes up
Mr C has said there is a piece of wood under the caravan, holding pipework up. I dont find 
SOL needs to do anything about this. The scope of work didnt include doing anything to the 
outside or underneath of the caravan. So, I dont think it likely, based on what Ive seen, that 
SOL put it there.  And I havent seen any suggestion that the escape of sewerage water  
from the toilet having back up  caused any damage to pipes. So, I dont intend of making 
any award in this regard. 
Other
Mr C has raised concerns about other items  which were in the caravan when the sewerage 
leak occurred. This includes curtains, sofa cushions, mattresses, and a bed (he noted a 
bedpost was stained by the sewerage). There is very little evidence in respect of these 
items. So, Ive needed to come to my opinion, based on the information I do have.
An initial report from the loss adjuster explained that Mr C will be claiming for curtains and 
mattresses. In this report the loss adjuster said that given the low sum insured for contents 
on the policy, which is £1,000, replacement of contents would more likely be the most 
economic option  as opposed to cleaning. 
In a later report, it was noted that the mattresses and some cushions were off the floor when 
the leak happened and therefore wouldnt have been damaged. But, Im aware at this point that the caravan still smelt of sewerage. The caravan was suffering from mould and 
mushrooms at points during the claim too. Given this, whilst the items may not have been on 
the floor, it seems reasonable these would have become contaminated by the condition 
within the caravan. 
Ive seen a photograph of a bedpost with some damage on it  but its not possible to tell 
from just the photograph whether the damage is linked to the claim. It may simply be wear 
and tear. So, I dont find SOL need to do anything here. The parties are welcome to provide 
further information on this, for me to consider. 
With this in mind, my current thought is that SOL should provide Mr C with a cash settlement 
to replace the curtains and the mattresses and cushions, in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
Deep clean
As the caravan still has contamination present from the leak, its clear another deep clean 
will be needed, once the above is remedied. So, SOL will need to provide for this too.
Health and safety test
Mr C has highlighted he wants a health and safety test to be completed, to ensure that when 
all the work is complete, there are no contaminants left in the property from the sewerage 
leak and subsequent mould that was in the property. Given this claim has gone on since 
June 2019, and there are appears to be lengthy period of the property sitting in a 
contaminated state, it seems reasonable to me that this is completed, so Mr C can be 
provided with the peace of mind that his caravan is free of the sewerage that leaked into the 
property.
Given the above outstanding issues, Ive thought about what SOL should do to put these 
things right. I accept that the relationship with the original contractor has broken down to the 
point where it is no longer feasible for them to return and rectify the work. 
And in a recent meeting with a loss adjuster, Mr C expressed his wish for a cash settlement 
now. With this in mind, a cash settlement seems the most pragmatic option. 
Progression of the claim
Mr C has said his claim didnt progress as it should have. And there were delays in this 
moving forward. So, Ive thought about this too. As above, an insurer needs to move a claim 
forward promptly and fairly. I dont think SOL did this, in this case.
SOL acknowledged there were delays in the initial part of the claim. And I agree. Mr C had 
made his claim in June 2019, and in December 2019, at the point work was due to sign off, 
this wasnt ready. 
Following this, there were further delays. Between January 2020 and March 2020, work was 
supposed to be carried out, to fix problems with the original work. It wasnt until Mr C asked 
to see the caravan in March 2020 that it became clear no further work had been done, as it 
should have been. I would have expected this work to have been moved forward efficiently, 
so the outstanding work it was agreed would be dealt with, was completed. 
In April 2020, the caravan repair specialist noted the keys to the caravan had been lost in 
transit. In May 2020, it appears Mr C re-sent these to the relevant party. But later in June 
2020, when Mr C asked if he could collect the keys and look at the caravan, the caravan repair specialist noted the keys had gone to the wrong place, and it had just collected them  
so still nothing further had been done. Its not clear why these went to the wrong place  so I 
dont hold SOL accountable for this. However, I would have expected SOL to have chased 
for these and contacted Mr C about it  rather than him needing to chase the matter.   
Its clear that as this point there was a breakdown in communication between the parties. 
And I can appreciate why Mr C lost faith in the caravan repair company to deal with the 
claim. It had been involved in the matter for a year at this stage, work completed appeared 
poor and this still hadnt been resolved. Nothing happened on the claim after this, and the 
matter came to this service.
SOL offered Mr C £250 in respect of delays in the progress of the claim, up until December 
2019. And our investigator recommended a further £250 for delays between January 2020, 
and March 2020. So, £500 in total. Ive thought about whether this figure is fair and 
reasonable to reflect the trouble and upset Mr C has experienced. And I dont think it does. 
Im intending on requiring SOL to pay Mr C a further £250 compensation  so the total 
compensation is £750. I think this is a more reasonable figure. I say this because I think it 
more accurately recognises delays in the progression of the whole claim. Its clear this 
situation has been distressing and inconvenient for Mr C. Hes needed to chase the progress 
of his claim, and its been ongoing since 2019. Had the work been completed to the correct 
standard in the first instance  it seems the claim would have been concluded in December 
2019.   
Mr C has raised that he needed to pay ground rent for the caravan. He said the caravan site 
wrote some of this off. But he still needed to pay it around £900. And hes been unable to 
use the caravan, because of the above delays. And so, he felt it fair that SOL reimburse him 
for these costs. Ive thought about this  but I dont agree. Mr C would have needed to pay 
this ground rent for the caravan to be at the park regardless. And whilst Mr C wasnt able to 
use the caravan, Ive considered this in the compensation for trouble, upset and 
inconvenience above.
Given the above, Im currently intending on upholding Mr Cs complaint, and requiring 
Society of Lloyds to:
Pay a cash settlement to Mr C, based on market rates for both material and labour, 
for the removal and replacement of:
The carpet in the boiler cupboard
The wallboards, skirting and sub-floor, where these are water stained, or 
contaminated with black water and mould
The floor coverings which were laid upon contaminated sub-floor
Society of Lloyds should also pay a cash settlement for:
A deep clean of the whole caravan, to include the unit where C noted mould was 
present
The curtains, mattresses and cushions, in line with the remining terms and conditions 
of the policy
The repair work to the shower, so it has running water, if this isnt already resolved
A cash settlement to allow for a health and safety test to be carried out, to ensure the 
property is no longer contaminated with the sewerageSociety of Lloyds should provide 8% interest, simple per annum on this amount, from the 
date of loss, to the date of settlement. Less any tax properly deductible. If HM Revenue & 
Customers requires Society of Lloyds to deduct tax from this interest, Society of Lloyds 
should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for one.
Pay Mr C £750 compensation in total.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision. Mr C expressed his concerns about the above 
being paid by SOL in cash. This being because he was having trouble getting anyone to do 
the work on the caravan. SOL didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still upholding this complaint. Neither party has provided me with any 
comments or evidence that changes the outcome as detailed in my provisional decision. And 
so, the outcome remains the same, for the same reasons.
Mr C has raised concerns about SOL paying the award in cash, rather than completing the 
necessary work. And I do appreciate that. I considered that carefully when coming to my 
provisional decision. But Im satisfied a cash settlement is the most pragmatic resolution 
here. 
There has been a breakdown in communication with the insurer, and with the party that 
originally completed repairs on the caravan. As mentioned in my provisional decision, this is 
such that its no longer feasible for the original repairer to return and rectify the work. And 
SOL hasnt been able to get another expert to attend, given the caravans location. Its 
unlikely this will change. So, requiring SOL to repair the caravan is unlikely to move the 
situation forward in this instance. 
There are also pre-existing issues with the caravan, noted in the loss adjuster reports, which 
will continue to let in water if not resolved too. So, any repair completed will likely be further 
damaged  such as because of water entering through failed seals. And Mr C will need to 
resolve those issues.
Given the relationship breakdown here, Mr Cs previous representation to SOL about a cash 
settlement, the lack of other contractors, and the pre-existing damage to Mr Cs caravan, Im 
satisfied a cash settlement, as detailed below, is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
Given the above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint, and requiring Society of Lloyds to:
Pay a cash settlement to Mr C, based on market rates for both materials and labour, 
for the removal and replacement of:
The carpet in the boiler cupboard
The wallboards, skirting and sub-floor, where these are water stained, or 
contaminated with black water and mould
The floor coverings which were laid upon contaminated sub-floor
Society of Lloyds should also pay a cash settlement for:A deep clean of the whole caravan, to include the unit where C noted mould was 
present
The curtains, mattresses and cushions, in line with the remining terms and conditions 
of the policy
The repair work to the shower, so it has running water, if this isnt already resolved
A cash settlement to allow for a health and safety test to be carried out, to ensure the 
property is no longer contaminated with the sewerage
Society of Lloyds should provide 8% interest, simple per annum on this amount, from the 
date of loss, to the date of settlement. Less any tax properly deductible. If HM Revenue & 
Customers requires Society of Lloyds to deduct tax from this interest, Society of Lloyds 
should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for one.
Pay Mr C £750 compensation in total.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman