DRN-2921339
The complaint
Miss T complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs decision to close her account and demand 
immediate repayment of her loan which resulted in a default being applied.
What happened
In June 2018, Miss T applied for a loan with HSBC. HSBC approved the loan and it was paid 
into Miss Ts current account. Miss T made her monthly repayments successfully.
In May 2019, HSBC reviewed Miss Ts account as part of their ongoing monitoring. 
Following the review, HSBC decided to end their banking relationship with Miss T and gave 
her 60 days notice.
A few weeks after the notice to close letter was sent, Miss T phoned HSBC and queried 
whether her loan account would also be closing. HSBC confirmed the loan would need to be 
repaid in full. 
In August 2019, a default notice was sent to Miss T. The notice referred to payments being 
missed and asked Miss T to repay the loan in full by 27 August 2019. Miss T phoned HSBC 
and explained that shed never missed a payment. The advisor wasnt sure why Miss T had 
been sent the letter and therefore Miss T raised a complaint.
On 3 September 2019, HSBC issued a final demand to Miss T. This gave Miss T a final 
opportunity to repay the loan in full, less a rebate amount, by 20 September 2019. The letter 
confirmed that failure to pay could result in transferring the debt to HSBCs recovery team 
and disclosing information to the credit reference agencies including the default.
The loan wasnt repaid in full and therefore resulted in a default being applied. Miss T says 
this has caused her severe distress and caused problems with her career as shes been 
unable to refinance existing borrowing to help with her business.
The investigator who reviewed things didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. He 
explained that they were entitled to review accounts and close them  and the terms of the 
loan agreement allowed them to demand repayment immediately. The investigator thought 
HSBC had given Miss T sufficient notice about the loan needing to be repaid.
Miss T didnt agree. She said she was told to ignore the letters when she phoned HSBC and 
said if she knew the loan had to be repaid, she would have repaid it to avoid the default.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The review and closure of Miss Ts account
HSBC are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. 
Having looked at whats happened, Im satisfied HSBC was complying with their legal and 
regulatory obligations when they reviewed Miss Ts account. So, I cant fairly say theyve 
done anything wrong.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Miss T decided to stop banking with HSBC, she wouldnt have to explain why. HSBC 
can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of 
the account. HSBC have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Miss Ts account  
and gave the appropriate notice to Miss T to allow her time to find alternative banking 
facilities.
 
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. HSBC exercised 
their right to no longer offer Miss T banking facilities and I've seen nothing to suggest that 
theyve made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently.
 
The loan
Under Miss Ts loan agreement, HSBC have the right to default the loan in a few specific 
circumstances  and Im satisfied that their actions in this case were fair.
Ive seen the letters sent to Miss T from HSBC regarding the loan and Im satisfied it was 
clear Miss T had to repay the loan in full to avoid further action being taken. The latest letter 
sent to Miss T gave her the amount, less the rebate and the date shed have to pay by. I 
recognise Miss T says she was told by HSBC to ignore the letters, but based on the 
evidence Ive received, I cant fairly agree.
The first time Miss T spoke to HSBC about the loan was in June 2019. This was after Miss T 
received her 60 days notice to close letter regarding her current account. Miss T phoned 
HSBC and asked if her loan would be closing too. While I havent been able to listen to the 
call recording of the phone call, Ive seen the contact notes relating to it. The advisor told 
Miss T that the loan would need to be repaid in full.
In August 2019, Miss T received a default notice explaining the loan will need to be repaid in 
full by 27 August 2019. This letter referred to missing payments as the reason for the 
repayment of the loan  which was incorrect. Miss T phoned HSBC to query this because 
shed never missed a payment. I can appreciate why then to receive this letter, it would have 
been confusing. Again, I havent been able to listen to the phone call, but the notes confirm 
the advisor didnt know why Miss T had received this letter and offered to raise a complaint 
for her.
Ive considered Miss Ts previous conversation in June 2019. Im satisfied Miss T was 
already aware, before receiving the default notice, that the loan needed to be repaid in full. I 
appreciate the wording used on the follow up letter could have caused some confusion, but I 
cant fairly agree, based on the evidence, that Miss T was told to ignore it. 
In September 2019, before Miss T had received a response from her complaint, she 
received a final demand letter. This letter gave Miss T further information on how to repay 
her loan  the amount, less a rebate, and a final date to make payment. I havent seen any 
evidence to show that Miss T made any attempts to settle her loan  or chase up a response to her complaint. As the loan wasnt repaid in time, HSBC referred the debt to their internal 
debt recovery agents and applied a default to Miss Ts credit file.
Im satisfied Miss T had appropriate notice of the repercussions of not paying her loan in full 
 and I havent seen any evidence to show that she tried to mitigate her losses by offering to 
pay the loan either in full or partially. I recognise the wording on one of the letters may have 
caused some confusion, but I dont agree this, or the follow up phone calls, gave Miss T 
appropriate agreement to ignore the letters or avoid paying the debt.
Miss Ts loan was repayable on demand  but HSBC gave Miss T appropriate notice and 
time to repay the loan either in full or to discuss an appropriate repayment plan. Miss T didnt 
do that, and it therefore follows that HSBC applied a default which I think is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Overall
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC were acting in line with their legal and regulatory obligations 
when reviewing and subsequently closing Miss Ts account. They were also acting within 
their rights, under the loan terms, to terminate the loan facility and recall the funds. And on 
non-payment of the loan, HSBC were reasonable to apply a default and transfer the debt to 
their internal recoveries team. So, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman