DRN-2719844
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to act on her request to cash in 
her pension policy. They now say she must buy an annuity using the funds from her pension 
policy.
What happened
Mrs L had a pension policy which was due to mature on her 75th birthday in January 2020.
In mid-2019 Aviva sent Mrs L information about her policy which said Mrs L could either take 
the benefits of her policy in the form of a lump sum payment or the funds could be used to 
buy an annuity.
Mrs L says she spoke with Aviva in July 2019 and again in November/December 2019 and 
told them it was her intention to take the pension benefits as a lump sum.
Mrs L says she then called Aviva in January 2020 as she hadnt heard anything further from 
them. In the call Aviva said as Mrs L had passed her 75th birthday, the only option available 
to her was to buy an annuity using the funds. But they said theyd check with their technical 
team to see what options were available. 
Aviva later wrote to Mrs L to confirm the only option she had was to buy an annuity with her 
funds. Mrs L complained to Aviva. She said shed told Aviva in 2019 she wanted to take her 
pension as a lump sum, but theyd failed to act on her instructions. She also said her funds 
would have dropped in value since her first contact with Aviva in January 2020. Mrs L didnt 
think that was fair.
In their response Aviva said theyd sent Mrs L retirement packs six months before her 75th 
birthday and again in October 2019. The letters said Mrs L needed to act before her 75th 
birthday otherwise shed lose some of the financial options available to her. When looking in 
their records, Aviva said they couldnt find evidence of any previous conversations with 
Mrs L about taking her retirement benefits prior to her calling in January 2020.
Aviva confirmed Mrs Ls funds had been disinvested with an effective date of her 75th 
birthday and were held in an account. So, the funds hadnt lost any value since that time.
Mrs L remained unhappy with Avivas response and so brought her complaint to us. Our 
investigator said Aviva had made Mrs L aware of the consequences of not acting before her 
75th birthday. But our investigator said he hadnt seen enough evidence to suggest Mrs L 
contacted Aviva before her 75th birthday. So, he didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly.
Mrs L didnt accept our investigators opinion as she maintains she called Aviva in 2019 and 
made them aware of her intentions to take the pension funds as a lump sum. As Mrs L 
disagreed, the case has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L says she told Aviva she wanted to take her pension funds as a lump sum, but Aviva 
say they have no record of that, and now its too late. 
The issue to determine here is whether its likely Mrs L instructed Aviva to sell her funds and 
provide her with a lump sum before her 75th birthday.  
We asked Aviva for their contact records regarding Mrs Ls policy. Their records show Mrs L 
called them on 6 August 2019. The next call was recorded as being in January 2020.
Aviva say they are unable to locate a recording of the first part of the call in August 2019. But 
they have sent us a recording for the second part of the call. This relates to an internal call at 
Aviva where the current value of Mrs Ls fund was discussed with a view to passing that 
information on to Mrs L.
Mrs Ls recollection of the August 2019 call is that she told Aviva it was her intention to take 
the pensions benefits as a lump sum. Given that Mrs L was approaching her 75th birthday I 
find her account plausible. But the call recording isnt particularly helpful in determining what 
was or wasnt said during the call by either Aviva or Mrs L. Or whether Mrs L made it clear 
that she intended to take a lump sum payment before her 75th birthday. So, where evidence 
is conflicting or missing, I base my decisions on whats most likely to have happened on the 
balance of probabilities, using the evidence available to me. 
Aviva have sent us the call recording from January 2020. Near the start of the call when 
talking about her funds Mrs L says shell probably take them by the end of the tax year. She 
asked for and was given the current value of the funds to which she replied, I intend to cash 
these in some time around March, do I need to give you notice and how do I go about doing 
that? 
Avivas operator then told Mrs L it was unlikely shed be able to take the benefits from her 
plan as a full lump sum as shed passed her 75th birthday. Mrs L then said shed spoken to 
someone the previous year in November or December  which she later thought was more 
likely to have been in August or September. And shed been told it would be fine to take her 
benefits in that way.
Mrs L went on to explain she intended to take her benefits in March as she thought the 
policy would increase at that time of year when people invested before the end of the tax 
year.  
The call recording is consistent with Mrs Ls account and Avivas contact notes that Mrs L 
contacted them in August 2019. But the recording of the January 2020 call indicates to me 
that Mrs L didnt give Aviva a specific instruction to cash in her policy in 2019 and more likely 
spoke about her intentions in general terms. I say that because it appears she was waiting 
until March 2020 when she thought the value of her policy might increase before cashing it 
in. 
Mrs L says she told Aviva in August 2019 it was her intention to cash in the policy in March. 
But that wasnt an option available to her with her policy. She had to act before her 75th 
birthday if she was to take her pension funds as a lump sum. So, I think its likely had Mrs L 
explained her intentions, Aviva would have told her that she needed to act before the age of 
75. 
Aviva sent Mrs L a retirement pack in June 2019. The letter highlighted in bold text that Mrs L needed to act before her 75th birthday. Aviva sent a similar letter in October 2019 
again highlighting in bold text that Mrs L needed to act before her 75th birthday. I think the 
letters were clear. If the letter contradicted what Mrs L says she was told on the phone, Id 
have expected to see her make further contact with Aviva. But theres no evidence she did.
As Ive said, while I appreciate Mrs Ls recollection of events, I base my decision on the 
evidence available to me and what I think is most likely to have happened. I havent seen 
enough evidence that persuades me Mrs L asked Aviva to encash her policy before her 75th 
birthday. And I dont think on balance Aviva told Mrs L she could wait until March 2020 to 
cash in her policy particularly given that that wasnt an option available. The terms of Mrs Ls 
policy meant once she reached the age of 75 her options were limited. This was explained to 
Mrs L in the letters Aviva sent and in the contact she had with Aviva in January 2020. So, I 
dont think Aviva acted unfairly or unreasonably in this case.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman