DRN-2597670
The complaint
Ms G complains that TSB Bank plc discriminated against her when she applied for a loan.
What happened
Mrs G had a loan with TSB and in 2019 made an application to consolidate it and take out 
further borrowing. TSB took Mrs G through an affordability assessment, and asked her a 
number of questions about her income and expenditure  one of which included how much 
tax and insurance she paid on her current vehicle. 
Mrs G said that her vehicles tax and insurance werent outgoings for her because she didnt 
pay for them. She explained that her tax and insurance costs were covered by a disabled car 
scheme. And the cost of that scheme was taken directly from her disability benefit (personal 
independence payment, PIP), before it was even paid to her.
However, TSB said it was unable to progress Mrs Gs application without the tax and 
insurance information, so Mrs G approached her car scheme to see if she could obtain it. 
The car scheme couldnt provide that information though  because it had a blanket policy in 
place for all scheme vehicles which couldnt be broken down to individual tax and insurance 
levels. 
Mrs G relayed that to TSB, but it reiterated it wouldnt be able to progress her application any 
further without the tax and insurance costs. So Mrs G approached a different lender instead, 
and was able to take out a loan elsewhere.
Unhappy with what had happened, Mrs G complained to TSB and said it had discriminated 
against her because of her disability. She said no one using the disabled car scheme would 
be in a position to provide the tax and insurance information TSB had asked her for, and she 
said that meant other disabled people would find themselves prevented from borrowing with 
TSB too.
TSB responded to Mrs Gs complaint and said it had a responsibility to lend wisely and 
sensibly. It explained that it had to evidence affordability was there and lending was a viable 
option. And it said itd been obliged to ask about the tax and insurance costs. But Mrs G 
remained unhappy and referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. They didnt think TSB had acted 
fairly in asking Mrs G to provide the tax and insurance costs. And they didnt think the tax 
and insurance were actual outgoings for Mrs G either, given the car scheme costs were 
taken directly from her disability benefit before she received it. Our investigator wasnt 
persuaded that Mrs G would have met TSBs affordability assessment, but they did think 
TSB had put her to some distress and inconvenience as a result of its actions, so 
recommended it paid her £100 in compensation.
Mrs G disagreed with that recommendation. She disputed that she wouldnt have met the 
affordability assessment, and said TSBs processes meant no disabled person would be 
able to get a loan with it. TSB also disagreed with the recommendation, and said £100 
compensation wasnt reasonable given the investigator felt Mrs G wouldnt have passed the 
affordability assessment. TSB said it understood Mrs Gs frustrations, but said it had 
followed its usual rules when completing the affordability assessment, and the tax and 
insurance questions were only asked because Mrs Gs application was considered high risk.
So as no agreement was reached, the matter was passed to me to decide, and I issued a 
provisional decision setting out why I didnt think TSB had treated Mrs Gs application fairly. 
My provisional decision now forms part of this final decision, and it read as follows:
Mrs G has said that TSB discriminated against her. Its clear that she feels very strongly 
about this, and it is central to her complaint. So Ill start by explaining how Ill consider that. 
Discrimination has a specific meaning in law  it is conduct, contrary to what the 
Equality Act 2010 says. 
Mrs G is in receipt of PIP, a government benefit which is subject to assessment against a 
qualifying criteria. I havent seen medical evidence relating to Mrs Gs disability, but in view 
of her being in receipt of PIP, I am satisfied that a government department has assessed her 
health and has found her to have a disability. 
So, for the purposes of this complaint, I am satisfied that Mrs G has a disability. And as that 
is one of the protected characteristics of the Act, it means she is protected by its provisions. 
It is therefore relevant law for me to consider when deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
It is not my role to make a specific legal finding that TSB has, or hasnt, acted in breach of 
the Act. Findings on such questions of law are matters for the courts. However, in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable, I will take into account what the law says TSBs obligations are, 
among other relevant matters. 
A number of different types of discrimination are set out within the Act  direct, indirect, and 
discrimination arising from a disability. I dont think direct discrimination is relevant to the 
circumstances of Mrs Gs complaint, because TSB didnt refuse to proceed with her lending 
application just because she was disabled. But, unlike direct discrimination, indirect 
discrimination or discrimination arising from a disability is permitted where it can be 
objectively justified. 
However, the Act explains that a service provider (which TSB constitute in this complaint) 
should take reasonable steps to avoid its provision, criterion or practice putting disabled 
people at a substantial disadvantage compared to those who dont have a disability. And 
service providers should anticipate the different requirements or adjustments that disabled 
people might need too. That is not to say service providers should take steps which would 
fundamentally alter the nature of their service, but reasonable adjustments should be made 
where appropriate to do so. 
Did TSB treat Mrs Gs application fairly?
A lenders main responsibility is to provide a borrower with a product that is affordable and 
meets their needs. So when a consumer asks to borrow money, a lender will carry out an 
affordability assessment to help it decide whether its prepared to lend or not. The way in 
which lenders carry out such assessments may vary. But, generally, a lender will consider a 
range of different information about a consumers financial circumstances  some of which 
might be gathered through an income and expenditure assessment.
When Mrs G applied to consolidate her existing loan and take out further borrowing with TSB, it asked her to provide information about her vehicles tax and insurance costs. 
TSB has told this service that it was obliged to ask for that information because of the stage 
Mrs Gs application had reached, and because the lending shed asked for might have been 
considered high risk. I appreciate this, but as Mrs G had explained, the tax and insurance 
costs for her vehicle were taken directly from her PIP benefit as part of a disabled car 
scheme before she even received it. 
Mrs G had further explained that, even without the car scheme in place, she would have 
been exempt from paying road tax because of her disability. So I am minded to agree with 
our investigator here and find that the tax and insurance costs were not actual outgoings for 
Mrs G and, therefore, not something TSB needed to take into account if deciding if the loan 
was affordable. 
TSB has also said it asked about the tax and insurance costs because it was concerned 
about what would happen if Mrs Gs benefits were to stop. I havent been provided with any 
evidence to show that Mrs Gs benefits were due to reach the end of their term during the 
lifetime of the loan shed applied for. But even if I had, I understand that the car scheme 
would have given Mrs G a period in which she was able to return the car. So Im still not 
persuaded that the road tax or insurance would have been actual outgoings for her. It seems 
to me that TSB made assumptions about Mrs Gs circumstances rather than considering 
what she had said.
TSB says its system required an answer to be input into the tax and insurance questions 
before it could, or would, move on. I acknowledge that, and I appreciate TSB would have 
needed to ask those same questions to anyone else who had got to the same point in an 
application. But I must keep in mind that Mrs G had attempted to obtain the tax and 
insurance costs from the car scheme provider. And had told TSB that despite her attempt, 
she was unable to provide it. 
Separate to the above, TSB has shown this service that its lending policy considers PIP an 
unacceptable form of income. It has told us its reasoning behind this is because PIP is 
designed to cover additional living expenses that a person with a disability may incur, and 
because it doesnt routinely include variable, and often unique, costs when considering 
expenditure thresholds. 
I appreciate TSBs rationale here, but Mrs Gs disability related benefit would not have been 
assessed on the basis of specific expenditure she had. Such benefits are based on notional 
allowances, which are assessed according to conditions as opposed to specific individual 
needs. And while Mrs G may have had additional living expenses because of her disability, 
TSB was prevented from fully exploring that because of the system it had in place. It 
assumed that the whole of her PIP was used in expenditure rather than  as it would with 
customers whose income didnt come from disability-related benefits  assess her income 
and expenditure.
So, TSB couldnt progress Mrs Gs application and fully consider it in light of her own 
individual situation, and I havent been provided with any information to demonstrate that 
TSB attempted to make any reasonable adjustments to its practices to accommodate the 
different requirements that Mrs G had. I dont think any limitations in TSBs IT systems 
override its obligations to treat Mrs G fairly. Mrs G had already explained that, by reason of 
her disability, she didnt pay vehicle tax and insurance. I dont think it was fair that TSB 
insisted on her providing it with information it knew wasnt applicable to her, and she didnt 
have, before it would progress with her application. If TSB has implemented a system that 
doesnt allow flexibility to adjust its processes for customers whose circumstances arent 
typical by reason of disability, it must accept that will on occasion  as here  result in unfairness.
I know that Mrs G thinks she would have been accepted for TSBs loan had her application 
been able to progress. But the outcome of her application wasnt guaranteed. And TSB did 
need to carry out an affordability assessment to help it decide whether it was prepared to 
agree to the lending. However, no lending decision was ever made, and I am unable to fairly 
conclude that Mrs G would have been considered suitable for the loan. 
As Mrs G has since gone on to borrow elsewhere there would be little use in say, for 
example, TSB manually assessing and underwriting her lending application now to 
determine whether it would, or should, have accepted her application.
I do recognise, and of course appreciate, TSBs position in wanting to be a responsible 
lender and its duty to provide products that are affordable. But for the reasons given above 
and in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think it took Mrs Gs individual 
circumstances into account. And I dont think it was fair that her application was unable to be 
completed due to issues arising from her disability which were incompatible with TSBs 
systems and which it couldnt adjust. So I agree with our investigator and dont think TSB 
treated her application fairly. 
I do appreciate that Mrs G feels discriminated against, and I can see she was caused both 
frustration and upset because of what happened. I also think that TSB didnt give enough 
consideration to Mrs Gs individual circumstances, or listen to her explanation about the tax 
and insurance costs. 
Mrs Gs vehicle costs were different to those of some other customers, because of her 
disability. And I think TSB should have been more prepared to consider Mrs Gs own 
particular circumstances, taking into account what she told it and recognising that her 
application might be different to that of other customers because of those circumstances. 
After all, it was carrying out an assessment of Mrs Gs own, specific, expenditure. So I think 
its fair that TSB compensates Mrs G for the upset and frustration it caused her. 
Putting things right
Compensation is designed to be a fair and proportionate reflection of the impact a 
businesses actions have had on someone. But it isnt designed to be a punitive measure, 
and any award I make in this complaint will need to reflect that.
Mrs G was caused some unnecessary inconvenience, in having to approach the scheme 
provider for further information when shed already told TSB why her cars costs werent an 
actual outgoing for her. And she was caused upset because of the way TSBs questions 
made her feel. So, having taking the circumstances of this complaint into account, I think an 
increased award of £350 is fair compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused by 
Mrs Gs application not being assessed fairly.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both sides responded to my provisional decision.  
Mrs G agreed with it and accepted I could not make a finding on whether TSB would have 
approved her application. She reiterated that she had felt hurt and let down by TSB, and 
wanted to make it known that she had since paid off both of her loans.
TSB disagreed with the provisional decision but said there was little else it could add to what 
itd already said. TSB did however say that the compensation felt excessive and it was not reflective of the inconvenience Mrs G had been caused. It also said it would have been 
unlikely to agree the loan even if the additional information had been available, so overall the 
outcome would have been unchanged for Mrs G.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, for 
the same reasons.
I am pleased that Mrs G understands why Im unable to make a finding on whether her 
application with TSB would have been accepted and I acknowledge that shes since paid off 
her borrowing. I would however, like to reassure her that I took the impact that the 
circumstances of this complaint had on her into account when deciding how much 
compensation I felt was warranted. 
TSB has ongoing concerns about the validity of compensation in this complaint. But TSBs 
actions did have an impact on Mrs G; not just because of the inconvenience she was 
caused, but also because of the way she was made to feel. I appreciate TSB thinks it would 
have been unlikely to agree the loan even if Mrs G had provided the tax and insurance 
information. And, had Mrs Gs application been able to progress, I accept TSB may have 
ended up reaching such a decision. 
However, the point I illustrated in my provisional decision was that Mrs Gs application was 
never able to progress to the point of a decision being made about it. That appeared to have 
been because TSBs systems did not allow it the flexibility to adjust its processes for a 
customer whose circumstances werent typical by reason of their disability. And in the 
circumstances of this complaint, that resulted in unfairness. 
So, despite the objections presented by TSB, for the reasons given above and within my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my previous findings. I remain of the 
opinion that £350 is a fair amount of compensation to reflect the impact TSBs actions had 
on Mrs G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to pay Mrs G £350 
in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman