DRN-3819931
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as Q, is unhappy with the service it received from 
HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding restrictions placed on its business accounts and the 
recalling of its Bounce Bank Loan (BBL). Q is also unhappy that HSBC didnt record 
telephone calls that took place between its director and HSBCs relationship manager.
One of Qs directors, Mrs Q brings this complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
In June 2020, Q successfully applied to HSBC for a BBL and received the loan funds shortly 
afterwards. Later that year, Q successfully applied for a Coronavirus Business Interruption 
Loan (CBIL) with another lender, the funds from which Q received into its HSBC business 
account. 
This prompted HSBC to contact Q and to explain that it wasnt permitted to have a BBL and 
a CBIL simultaneously and to request that Q repay one of the loans. In June 2021, one of 
Qs directors spoke with the companys HSBC relationship manager, at which time it was 
agreed that Q would be allowed to keep both loans on the understanding that Q would repay 
the BBL in full in February 2022. 
However, in December 2021, Q received notice from HSBC that they were no longer willing 
to offer banking services to Q and that Qs business accounts would be closed in two 
months time. Shortly afterwards, Q received a further notice from HSBC that they were 
terminating the BBL agreement and demanding immediate repayment of the outstanding 
BBL amount. Qs directors werent happy about this, or that HSBC had restricted Qs 
business accounts in the lead up to making their decision to no longer offer banking service 
to Q, and so raised a complaint on Qs behalf.
HSBC looked at Qs complaint. They confirmed to Q that a BBL and CBIL couldnt be held 
simultaneously and explained that Qs accounts had been restricted while HSBC complied 
with their UK statutory obligations. HSBC also reiterated that the decision to no longer offer 
banking services to Q still stood. Qs directors werent satisfied with HSBCs response, so 
they referred Qs complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that HSBC had acted 
unfairly in how it had managed the situation, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Q remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law and 
doesnt operate as such. This means it isnt within my remit to declare that HSBC have or 
havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way - such declarations would be for a 
regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. Instead, this service is an informal, 
impartial dispute resolution service with a remit focussed on fairness of outcome. 
Qs directors have explained that when they took the CBIL with another lender, it was 
explained to them by that lender that it was permitted to hold a BBL and a CBIL 
simultaneously. However, its clear from the website of the British Business Bank (BBB), 
which managed both the BBL and CBIL schemes, that this wasnt the case. As follows:
Businesses are not permitted to access more than one of either the Bounce Back 
Loan Scheme, CBILS, CLBILS or the Covid Corporate Financing Facility (CCFF) 
scheme at the same time.
Regardless of what Qs directors were or werent told by the other lender that provided the 
CBIL to Q  the details of which fall outside the scope of this review  I feel that it was 
incumbent on Qs directors to have understood that it wasnt permitted for Q to receive a 
CBIL having already received a BBL.
The receipt of the CBIL into Qs HSBC business account led to a review of Qs accounts by 
HSBC which ultimately resulted in its decision to no longer offer banking services to Q. This 
is a commercial decision that Im satisfied HSBC were entitled to make, and I note that its 
included in the terms of HSBCs business accounts that HSBC can close a customers 
accounts, usually with two months notice  which Im satisfied that HSBC provided to Q in 
December 2021.
However, it doesnt necessarily follow from the above that the closure of Qs accounts was 
taken by HSBC fairly, and Im aware that Qs directors would like to better understand the 
reasons that HSBC made the decision to cease offering banking services to Q as they did. 
HSBC arent obliged to provide any further information to Q than theyve already provided. 
But, in order for this service to assess the fairness of HSBCs actions, HSBC have provided 
their reasoning to us. And, having considered this information, Im satisfied that HSBCs 
decision to no longer offer banking services to Q was reasonable and that HSBC havent 
acted unfairly in taking that decision or in the actions that resulted from it. 
I realise that this explanation may not fully satisfy Qs directors, but as explained, HSBC 
arent obliged to provide any further information about their reasoning to Q, and its beyond 
my remit here to consider asking them to do so. I hope Qs directors can take some comfort 
knowing that someone impartial has considered HSBCs rationale on their behalf. 
Qs directors have explained their HSBCs relationship manager agreed with them in June 
2021 that Q could keep both the BBL and the CBIL funds on the understanding that Q would 
repay the BBL in full in February 2022, and theyre unhappy that HSBC dont retain 
recordings of this and other calls that they held with their relationship manager in this regard. 
HSBC have explained that because the calls took place on the relationship managers 
mobile telephone, these calls werent recorded. However, call notes as inputted by Qs 
relationship manager do exist. These include a call dated 30 June 2021, where the 
relationship manager notes that he explained to Qs director that Q is in breach of scheme 
rules as it cant have both a BBL and a CBIL, and where repayment of the BBL is discussed. 
Upon reading these notes I can appreciate how Qs directors may have felt that the keeping 
of both the BBL and CBIL funds by Q had been accepted by their relationship manager, at 
least up until February 2022 when Q intended to repay the BBL in full. But I dont feel that 
this point supersedes the fact that Qs holding a BBL and CBIL together wasnt permitted by 
the rules of either scheme, and that HSBC retained the right to review the position and to end the business relationship with Q at any time  which HSBC ultimately did on the basis of 
a rationale which, as previously confirmed, Im satisfied was fair and reasonable.
Finally, Qs directors are unhappy that HSBC allowed money to be received into Qs 
business account while the account was restricted so that money couldnt be moved out of 
that account, and that HSBC then used the money that had built up in Qs business account 
to offset the balance Q owed on the BBL. 
But such offsetting was permitted by the BBL agreement, and I dont feel that its 
unreasonable for a lender thats owed a significant amount of money, as HSBC was, to allow 
money to be received into a restricted business account. And while I can appreciate that this 
may have put Q into a difficult financial position, I can only reiterate the point Ive made 
previously above, which is that ultimately it was the responsibility of Qs directors to have 
understood and mitigated against the fact that Q was engaging in borrowing that wasnt 
permitted by the rules of the schemes which Q was borrowing against.
All of which means that I dont feel that HSBC have acted unfairly or unreasonably as Qs 
directors maintain, and it follows from this that my final decision is that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing HSBC to take any further action. I hope that Qs directors will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision here that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman