DRN-3121851
The complaint
Mr D complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with a 
loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided a loan to Mr D as follows: 
Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentAPR Date 
repaid
13 February 2018 £500 18 months £113.28 990.1% 2 June 2018
Mr D told us that when Loans 2 Go provided the loan he already had a lot of outstanding 
debt and was struggling with the repayments. He also complained that the interest rate on 
this loan was too high and he believes he was over-charged.
In its final response letter Loans 2 Go didnt uphold the complaint and so Mr D brought his 
complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She didnt think Loans 2 Go should have 
provided Mr D with the loan as his credit spending represented a significant portion of his 
monthly income and wasnt sustainably affordable for him. 
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It mainly said that all its checks 
showed that Mr D had enough disposable income to repay the loan sustainably. It told us 
that it spoke to him before approving the loan and made him aware of all the key loan terms 
such as the total amount repayable and the early settlement option. Loans 2 Go said that 
Mr D was satisfied and confirmed he could make the repayments.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr D would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did Loans 2 Go 
make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr D 
irresponsibly. The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or 
affordability check. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Loans 2 Go had to think 
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr D.
Loans 2 Go had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D 
would be able repay his loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Loans 2 Go 
had to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the 
length of the loan term, the repayment amounts and the borrowers overall financial 
circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Loans 2 Go was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loan  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
This is because the regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
I have reviewed the information Loans 2 Go gathered when it agreed to provide this loan. It 
did some background checks and verified that Mr Ds minimum income was approximately 
£1,703 monthly. After looking at the credit report information it gathered, Loans 2 Go 
increased the overall amount Mr D had said he was spending each month and allowed for a 
total monthly expenditure figure of around £1,420. It also added a buffer of 10% of Mr Ds 
verified expenditure in order to allow for fluctuations in his monthly income or outgoings. 
Relying on this information, Loans 2 Go said that the contractual loan repayment for this loan 
should have been affordable.
I dont need to comment on whether the checks Loans 2 Go carried out were reasonable 
and proportionate in the particular circumstances of this loan because I think it shouldve 
seen from the information it did gather that Mr D was already facing serious money 
problems. And I think Loans 2 Go saw enough on the information in front of it to realise that 
this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for him. Ill explain why I say this. Loans 2 Go was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably make his loan 
repayments over the loan term  not just whether the loan payments looked affordable on 
a strict pounds and pence calculation. I dont think that Loans 2 Go made a fair lending 
decision on this occasion.
I think Loans 2 Go wouldve been able to see that Mr Ds loan application was a 
continuation of what seemed to be a pattern of reliance on this type of credit. 
Loans 2 Go recorded in its notes that Mr Ds credit commitments cost him £334 and his eight 
open accounts were up to date. But Loans 2 Go has sent me the results of its credit checks 
and Ive been able to look at the same information that was available to the lender when it 
was considering whether to approve this loan. And I think Loans 2 Go couldve seen that its 
credit checks appear to show that in reality Mr D already needed to spend around £500 each 
month just to service his existing debt  which was already a large part of his net income.
In arriving at this figure I have allowed for Mr D paying around 5% of his monthly outstanding 
balance on his credit card as anything less than this would effectively just extend the debt 
and add to the long term cost of that credit. 
I think that the amount Mr D was already spending on his existing credit commitments was 
such a significant proportion of his take home pay it was a clear indication that Mr D was, in 
reality, already experiencing financial difficulty. I think Loans 2 Go ought reasonably to have 
been aware that taking further, costly lending was unlikely to help Mr D. The monthly 
repayments for this loan meant he would likely need to use more than a third of his pay just 
to keep up with his monthly repayments owed to creditors. 
I've taken into account the possibility that Mr D might have repaid some of his other short-
term unsecured loans over the 18 month term of this loan. But Mr Ds credit history suggests 
he had struggled to manage his finances effectively in the past and he had a record of using 
credit to supplement his income. Loans 2 Go could see from the number of credit searches 
on Mr Ds record - 7 searches in the last 6 months and 1 in the last month - that it looked like 
he had been actively seeking additional credit throughout the period he had also been 
borrowing. So it should have realised that this pattern of lending suggested that he was over-
reliant on credit and this was a further reason not to lend.
Also bearing in mind that the loan purpose was stated as other I dont think Loans 2 Go 
wouldve had any reason to think that this loan wouldnt simply add to Mr Ds overall 
indebtedness. 
Thinking about all of this information, I dont think Loans 2 Go could reasonably have 
satisfied itself that providing this loan to Mr D wouldnt put him in a worse position by 
increasing his overall debts. And it shouldve realised that maintaining this level of debt 
wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr D. 
So, I am planning on upholding Mr Ds complaint that he should not have been given the 
loan.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr D in some other way. 
Ive thought about what Mr D has said about the high cost of the loan. I think there was a 
large amount of interest payable on the loan and I can appreciate that Mr D might now feel 
this was unfair. But I think its fair to say that the loan agreement set out reasonably clearly 
both what the interest rate was and how much he would have to pay if the loan ran to term. 
Interest was waived when he closed the loan and he received a discount for early settlement. Taking everything into account, I think Mr D was aware he was taking a high cost 
loan on terms he seemed happy to agree to at the time. So I cant fairly say that the high 
cost of this credit is a reason for me to uphold this complaint and I dont plan to award any 
additional redress for this. 
But, I dont think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to provide the loan to Mr D. And as Mr D 
has been further indebted with an expensive loan that he shouldnt have been provided with, 
Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Loans 2 Go did wrong. 
So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right.
I hope that setting out my reasons as I've done helps explain more clearly why its fair and 
reasonable to uphold this complaint and I invite Loans 2 Go to reconsider its position in light 
of what I've said above.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr D told me he had nothing further to add.
Loans 2 Go asked me to reconsider my view on affordabilty of the loan. It didnt agree that 
Mr D had been spending a significant proportion of his income paying for exisitng debt - and 
said that the results of its credit checks were on the whole very positive.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Loans 2 Go for responding so promptly to my provisional decision. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Id like to assure Loans 2 Go that I've thought carefully about everything again 
before coming to my final decision. 
Loans 2 Go hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about 
this case. Id already considered all the main points mentioned above when thinking about 
my provisional decision. 
I have addressed in my provisional decision all the points which have a bearing on the 
outcome. 
I appreciate that Loans 2 Go takes a different view to me. 
But I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my 
provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr D to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr D shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount he borrowed. 
As the loan balance has already been settled and shows as £0.00, then Loans 2 Go should 
do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr D received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Mr D made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr D having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ds credit file regarding this loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps set out above to put 
things right for Mr D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman