DRN-3051285
The complaint
Mr T complains about the suitability of advice from an appointed representative of
PlutusGroup (now Gate Capital Group Ltd  Gate) in 2016 to transfer two defined benefit
(DB) pension schemes to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He accessed some of his
tax-free cash entitlement and invested the remainder with Organic Investment Management
(OIM). References to Gate in this decision include the actions of its appointed
representative. 
What happened
Mr T was seeking advice to understand what benefits he could draw in the form of tax-free
cash, and whether it was possible to stagger the timing of those drawings to assist his
business. He initially approached a different firm for whom the Gate adviser also worked,
which then introduced him to Gate for DB transfer advice.
In August 2016 Gate began a fact find and risk profiling exercise with Mr T. This recorded
that he was aged 54 and in average health (which I understand to relate to type 2  non
insulin dependent diabetes). He was self-employed running his own business from which he
drew a salary of around £15,400pa net, with £233 per month disposable income. He was
divorced, but with a new partner, and his two children were in their twenties and not
financially dependent.
Mr T had a target income of £20,000 at his selected retirement age of 67 (state pension
age). This is presumed to be gross of tax, as a lower target of £15,000 net was later
recorded on Gates suitability letter. He wasnt making any ongoing pension contributions. A
form recording his priorities, which wasnt signed, was marked as follows:
[Highest] Taking benefits now
The ability to take a flexible and varied income in retirement
The opportunity for potential future investment growth
Providing the highest possible benefit in the event of your death
Providing a flexible death benefit to successors as a method of passing wealth
Ensuring that pension is reviewed and to receive retirement advice
[Lowest] Providing a known and secure (guaranteed) income for life
Gate assessed Mr Ts attitude to risk as balanced/medium, being someone who could
achieve an average gain of 5.64%pa but would be able to ride out a 14.75% drop in his 
investment in a 12-month period. Other than his two DB pension schemes, there were no
other savings or investments recorded and he didnt own his own home. He would potentially
sell his business to supplement retirement income. At the time it was recorded he had a
credit card on which he paid the balance off each month.
Gate issued a suitability report on 22 November 2016 which recommended that Mr T
transfer his two DB schemes into a new Intelligent Money SIPP, and subsequently invest
into a portfolio managed on a discretionary basis by OIM. The transfer was recommended
based on the following factors:
He wanted to initially draw £15,000 tax free cash to invest into his business with up to 
a combined total of £45,000 to be drawn over the coming months
He wanted to maximise death benefits and flexibility for his two children
He wanted flexibility in his retirement income to dovetail with other income and tax
He wanted to receive ongoing advice as he had insufficient knowledge to deal with 
his pension himself
He didnt wish to take out a loan to meet his immediate cash needs because he didnt 
feel he could service it
Smaller DB scheme: this had a transfer value of about £43,800 and was said to be in deficit.
Gate explained that the critical yield to provide benefits equivalent to the deferred pension
was 7.3%pa based on nil charges. So the annual management costs of the new scheme
(estimated to be 0.5%pa) were in addition.
The alternative was to leave the benefits to revalue to age 65 when theyd provide a
projected income of £3,813pa (before tax-free cash). However Gate said it had carried out
more realistic cash flow modelling based on Mr T taking benefits from income drawdown,
which suggested he could match the scheme pension by investing at a rate of 4.7%pa and
not run out of funds until age 105. His average life expectancy was stated to be 86.
Larger DB scheme: this had a transfer value of about £134,000, and was also said to be in
deficit. Gate explained that the critical yield on the same basis was 5.1%pa. At age 65 this
scheme was projected to pay £7,408pa (before tax-free cash). However the alternative cash
flow modelling suggested Mr T could match that pension by investing at a growth rate of
1.6%pa and not run out of funds until age 105.
Gate concluded that Deferring benefits would usually be considered the best option, but it
wouldnt enable him to provide better for his children, or release any of his benefits at that
time. The death before retirement lump sum from scheme 1 was only £4,407, and scheme 2
didnt stipulate a benefit in that situation. And if he took immediate retirement directly from
the DB schemes, this would set an income into payment and provide less tax-free cash than
the alternatives.
As Mr T didnt have an immediate requirement for the maximum tax free cash, phased
drawdown was also discussed as an option. The adviser said that the greater flexibility, fund
options and access to a Discretionary Investment Manager (DIM) justified the use of a SIPP
over cheaper pension plans such as stakeholder pensions.
Gate said the due diligence it had carried out into OIM said that it was:
A boutique investment house that does not manage its own funds and wasnt 
constrained in its investment selection  it will select other DIMs to work with.
Fees higher than some of the alternative model portfolio managers because fees from 
the investment in their own funds subsidise the cost of portfolio management.
Investment philosophy based on sound, diligent analysis - concentrating on ongoing 
macroeconomic themes and sector-based trends.
Low grade investment choices removed through automated quality assessment tools.
Investment scope covers commodities, credit, equities, foreign exchange and indices, 
to traditional stocks and exchange traded funds.
Only interaction the team have is ongoing optimisation and execution of the output, 
eliminating any emotional ties to the investment.
Truly independent with access to excellent research facilities.
Portfolio manager has over 13 years experience, with the appropriate wealth 
management professional qualifications.
In recommending OIM the adviser concluded that Mr T would like a proportion of your
portfolio not invested in equities, but to still have the capacity for good potential returns. He
went on to explain that:
Liquidity Risk refers to investing in assets that cannot be immediately sold or in investmentsthat may carry a penalty for exiting the investment earlier than expected. This could be
relevant to some of the underlying investments held in your portfolio that are considered
alternative investments. However, these are felt appropriate for you because you have
stated that you do not need and have not highlighted a specific objective to immediately
access your investments and they are expected to provide you with greater growth from a
less volatile investment in the longer term.
The advisers due diligence into OIM had been based on specific questions he put to it 
between May and August 2016 (rather than simply accepting OIMs marketing material 
without question). Organic assured Gate at the time that it would not be managing any funds 
directly (two funds which it did go on to manage  the Long/Short and Bond fund were 
created after the advisers due diligence had been completed). Gate went on to check out 
the pedigree of those running the business, and its external compliance consultants  
recording its overall conclusions in a summary document which it has provided to the 
ombudsman service.
Mr T accepted Gates recommendations and an application for the new SIPP was submitted. 
On the application Mr T completed an expression of wish for 50% of the death benefits to go 
to his then partner, and 25% shares to each of his son and daughter. Higher DB transfer 
values were achieved of £158,792 and £48,115 to the new SIPP on 5 January and 24 March 
2017 respectively. After tax-free cash sums totalling £29,000 were taken, the remainder was 
invested into OIMs balanced portfolio, which was mapped to Mr Ts attitude to risk, in those 
same months.
Intelligent Money issued a commencement illustration confirming that it charged £150pa plus
0.4%pa of the funds to administer the SIPP, and an initial 0.25% investment charge. The
illustration showed that these charges would reduce the investment growth on average by
0.5%pa to retirement. Including Gates own fees (if the 1%pa was also taken), this increased
the overall reduction on average to 1.8%pa.
Gate took an initial fee of 4% of the second transfer out of the SIPP, but apparently not the
first. It may have taken the fee for the first transfer out of the OIM portfolio, but it hasnt been
possible for me to verify this. I also cant verify if Gate was set up to collect an intended
ongoing advice fee of 1%pa from OIM. In any event, in late April 2017 the agency on Mr Ts 
SIPP was moved back to the advisers separately-regulated firm, for whom he was now
an appointed representative.
Mr T has no recollection of signing new terms of business when he moved to the advisers 
subsequent firm, However he confirmed he had originally signed terms of business as a 
direct customer of that firm under its old name, in April 2016 (before it referred him to Gate).  
Those terms of business state that any advice provided will be confirmed in writing, and that 
the services provided ranged between the following:
Transactional Only: With regard to investments which we have arranged for you, these will not
be kept under review unless we agree otherwise with you; but we will advise you upon your
request.
With Service Provision: We will provide services to you as more fully outlined in our initial and
post sales agreement.

Following implementation of the financial plan and investment portfolio, if you require our services
we offer an ongoing review and monitoring service. Your prior consent is required for this service.
For providing our ongoing review service we charge up to 1% per annum of your investment or
fund value to meet the costs of ongoing policy serving. [sic]
Its unclear whether these existing terms of business would still apply when the adviser went 
on to act, in a different capacity, as an appointed representative for this firm after April 2017. But even if they did, there appears to be no evidence that the adviser gave further advice or 
more fully outlined an ongoing service provision in any further agreement with Mr T. 
By November 2017 a snapshot of the OIM portfolio shows that it was invested as follows
(Ive obtained the information in italics from researching contemporaneous fund factsheets,
or where these arent available, the current factsheets):
Investment name Charge Initial fund Nov 2017 %
Organic Bond Fund - commercial, govt, below 
invest grade (to 30%), emerging markets (40%)
Fund managed by OIM1.66% £ 51,151.91 £  52,610.27 31.5
Organic Long/Short Alpha Fund  at times may 
be exclusively invested in financial derivative 
instruments (linked to shares)
Fund managed by OIM2.74% + 
15% 
perf. fee£ 31,494.25 £  30,776.09 18.5
Organic High Yield Fund - bonds and other debt 
securities, regardless of credit rating2.25% £   9,718.40 £  10,094.85   6
First Trust US Large Cap ETF- tracks US equity 0.65% £ 18,280.00 £  19,554.60 12
First Trust EuroZone ETF - tracks Euro equity 0.65% £ 10,717.82 £  12,511.53   7.5
First Trust UK ETF - tracks UK equity 0.65% £   7,494.82 £    7,961.76   5
iShares MSCI Emerg Mkts ETF  tracks 
emerging markets equity0.18% £   6,238.76 £    7,220.39   4.5
iShares Asia Pacific ETF- tracks Asia Pacific eq. 0.60% £   6,677.53 £    6,465.39   4
iShares UK Gilts 0-5yr ETF 0.07% £   4,820.04 £    4,779.54   3
iShares USD Treasury notes 7-10yr ETF 0.07% £   3,246.85 £    3,089.21   2
iShares EUR Govt bonds 7-10yr ETF 0.20% £   3,182.47 £    3,373.56   2
Lyxor EUR 2-10yr Inflation ETF- long French/ 
Ger inflation-linked bonds, short French/Ger 
sovereign bonds of adjacent durations0.25% £   3,194.28 £    3,307.62   2
Cash £    4,103.51   2.5
Weighted annual charge: 1.37% £165,848.32
(plus management fee 0.30%pa, custody fees 0.10%) 
This marks an apparent departure from OIMs original investment mandate, in terms of the
first three funds on this list particularly. The first two were directly managed by OIM  and the
overall exposure to below-investment grade bonds was higher than Gate considers it was
led to believe from OIMs literature.
In December 2018, OIMs permissions as an investment manager were revoked by the
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). In a supervisory notice1 it said holdings in noninvestment
grade and illiquid assets within the two funds that OIM managed had become too
high, and OIM hadnt sufficiently heeded warnings from the FCA to that effect.
In late September 2017 and mid-June 2018, further funds were sold from the OIM portfolio to
provide an additional £7,500 and £10,000 tax-free cash to Mr T. Taxable income payments
of £10,000 and £5,000 were also taken in April 2019 and March 2020 respectively. Intelligent 
Money wrote to the advisers subsequent firm confirming instructions had been given at the 
time of these payments. However Mr T states he has no letters giving advice on those 
withdrawals or the ongoing suitability of the portfolio. All he has been able to provide is 
letters from the adviser at the subsequent firm to him in March 2019 explaining about OIMs 
collapse, and how the residual amounts in his portfolio will be returned to the SIPP.
Meanwhile, Gate has provided letters that it says it sent to Mr T in May 2017 to make clear 
that it would no longer be responsible for the ongoing suitability of his investments. It 
1 https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/supervisory-notices/first-supervisory-notice-organic-investment-
management-limited-2019.pdffollowed this up with letters marked as URGENT and MOST URGENT in April and July 
2018 when issues with the OIM portfolios had become apparent. 
These letters said that Gates investment committee had identified concerns with OIMs 
management, and it wanted to ensure he had taken the matter up with his adviser. They 
emphasized that Gate would not accept any future claim on performance or liquidity from 
Mr T. Gate now says these letters discharged any obligations owed to Mr T, given the 
general principle that consumers should take responsibility for their decisions (Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000, s.3B). However Mr T has told us he has no recollection of 
these letters.
Mr T seems to have had the bulk of his OIM investment returned to his SIPP in two 
payments made in February and August 2019. 
Mr Ts complaint
Mr T first complained to the advisers subsequent firm in August 2018, but that was 
redirected to Gate who then responded. It doesnt appear the advisers subsequent firm ever 
responded to a complaint against it, and (like OIM) it is now in default to the FSCS. My 
understanding is that Mr T doesnt currently have a parallel complaint with FSCS in respect 
of the advisers subsequent firm. The complaint Gate responded to included the following:
- One of Mr Ts priorities was to provide pension death benefits for his children.
- The DB schemes should have been considered as a major part of his retirement 
planning, and he didnt have capacity to bear the loss of transferring away.
- The risks associated with the underlying investment werent fully and clearly explained, 
and Gate took no steps to satisfy itself that Mr T understood them.
- Gate didnt gather sufficient and clear information regarding Mr Ts circumstances, 
attitude to risk, needs and objectives.
- It didnt consider the suitability of the OIM portfolio as part of its advice.
- Had it done all of the above, Mr T wouldnt have transferred out of the DB schemes.
Gate responded that the advice had been in line with Mr Ts goals and objectives at the time,
given the low level of death benefits his existing DB schemes would have provided. It said
his capacity for loss and the loss of safeguarded benefits in the DB schemes were all
explained during conversations and in the suitability report he signed. It considered the new
SIPP provider was cost effective and the OIM portfolio (as marketed) wasnt the highly
speculative investment Mr Ts representative argued it was. It was described as a balanced
portfolio, which by definition met his medium risk profile.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. During a call with Mr T he confirmed that
it was important to Mr T that his children received benefits from his pensions if he died both
before or after retirement. Mr T explained that about £15,000 of the tax-free cash was spent 
on his business, but £30,000 was used to support his then partner some 12-18 months after 
the advice  support that he didnt know at the time of advice hed need to provide. Mr Ts 
representative later clarified that this was for her medical treatment.
The adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. He initially considered that a
transfer of the DB schemes was unlikely to offer value for money  the critical yields were
too high in relation to what he considered to be a reasonably achievable investment return of
3.8%pa, simply to match the DB pensions. That investment return was taken from the future
discount rates published on our website for loss assessment calculations. However he was
persuaded that Mr T wanted to access the tax-free cash available from his pensions for
various expenses, which he was unwilling to finance through borrowing. And that Mr T also
wanted to ensure that any benefits remaining on death were passed to his daughters, given
that he had no need for the spouses benefits attached to the DB schemes.Despite this our adjudicator considered the recommendation for Mr T to invest in the OIM
portfolio was unsuitable, for similar reasons to the FCAs findings in its supervisory notice
against OIM. Whilst Gate had no direct control over OIMs ongoing investment decisions, the 
investigator thought it should have conducted better due diligence into the OIM portfolio at 
the outset  bearing in mind that Mr T invested from January 2017, but the issues with 
illiquid investments had already been identified by the FCA in December 2016. Gate should 
have identified that the portfolio wasnt suitable for Mr T based on the assets held within it.
Gate didnt agree with the adjudicators view, but wasnt in a position to make any further 
comments as it was seeking legal advice. Mr Ts representative said it agreed with the view, 
without comment.
I issued my first provisional decision on 13 March 2021, concluding that Mr T could suitably 
have transferred his larger DB pension. This had the lowest critical yield, satisfied his most 
immediate tax-free cash need (stated to be £15,000) and went a long way toward achieving 
the aim of more flexible death benefits. But that finding was contingent on Mr T not 
transferring his smaller DB pension. This had a significantly higher critical yield, and leaving 
it intact gave him the capacity to take the medium risk necessary for the larger DB transfer to 
pay off whilst achieving an overall low-medium balance across his retirement planning.
Mr Ts representative also accepted my first provisional decision, again without further 
comment  even though it took a different position on whether Mr T would have transferred 
both DB schemes. 
Initially, I had taken the same overall position as the adjudicator that Gate should have done 
more due diligence into OIMs DFM proposition. But my conclusions in this respect have 
largely changed as a result of significant further evidence of contemporaneous due diligence 
which Gate supplied after the first provisional decision (and has been incorporated into the 
narrative above). 
Gate argued that OIM should have been regarded as a suitable DIM at the time of advice, as 
it was going to use regulated and diversified UCITS funds - and both the fund manager and 
Organics owner had around 15 years experience in the industry. OIMs balanced model 
portfolio was in line with Mr Ts medium risk profile and cost effective versus the alternatives. 
The example bond investments OIM mentioned in its answers to Gates due diligence 
questions appeared suitable. But Gates view was also that having below investment grade / 
unrated bonds within funds didnt make them unsuitable for a pension  given the overall 
liquidity requirements UCITS had to adhere to when investing in bonds.
My revised conclusions Mr Ts complaint as a whole were set out in a second provisional 
decision dated 6 July 2021. My findings from that second provisional decision follow in full 
under the heading below for completeness. In summary I continued to think that Mr T could 
only have been suitably advised to transfer the larger of his two DB schemes  but I didnt 
hold Gate responsible for the underperformance of the OIM portfolio.
My second provisional findings  6 July 2021
Was the larger DB transfer suitable?
It doesnt appear that Gate took an initial fee for this transfer  at least not from the SIPP 
and it had the lower critical yield of the two when based on no charges. In my first provisional
decision I said that the figure of 3.4%pa (after tax-free cash was taken) to normal retirement
age of 65 would increase by 1.8%pa for the SIPP and DFM costs, plus a further 1%pa for
the ongoing adviser fee Gate intended to charge (but now claims it didnt).Gate now questions whether an estimate based on charges applied in 2017 is a fair
reflection of the situation in 2016. Either way, all estimates advanced so far  particularly
when the SIPP and advice fees are included  significantly exceed the advisers estimate in
the suitability report that charges would only be an extra 0.5%pa.
Mr Ts transfers completed in January-March 2017. At that time COBS 19.1.2 in the FCA
handbook required a Transfer Value Analysis (including critical yield). The FCA introduced a
new measure of the Transfer Value Comparator (TVC) in October 2018, but both measures
still provide a relatively risk-free comparator to the option of transferring. This merely
reflects the regulators view that the starting position for any DB transfer is that it will not be
in the consumers best interests (COBS 19.1.6). On that basis, the critical yield was the
primary measure for Gate to take into account here.
I take a similar view to the investigator that Mr T would need to take at least a medium risk in
order to achieve the critical yield on this particular DB transfer. Gates own analysis showed
that Mr T was unlikely to achieve growth of more than 5.64%pa at his attitude to risk. (To be
clear, this is the 3.64% figure Gate refers to in its response with assumed inflation at 2%
inflation added back on, as Gates figure was an estimated real return.) But unlike Mr Ts
smaller DB transfer (which Ill discuss below), I think this return was just about achievable.
Gate categorised Mr T as medium risk, but he appears to have had no previous investment
experience. Im not satisfied that being a well-informed and determined company director
speaks to this. None of his pension provision was on a defined contribution basis and the 
suitability report refers to his lack of rainy day funds. Whilst I appreciate he was still about
ten years from retirement and could afford to take some risk, Mr Ts circumstances would fit
more in my view with low to medium on the risk scale for his pension planning overall. But
within that overall banding, I consider he could reasonably have taken a medium risk with
this transfer, as it was balanced out by other less risky, sources of income at the lower end
of the scale such as his state pension and other DB scheme.
As I explained in my first provisional decision, the prospects for achieving the necessary
growth would have been improved by transferring into a drawdown arrangement with
charges closer to the stakeholder pension level, and investing in managed funds which didnt
require frequent rebalancing (which attracts further charges). This doesnt literally mean a
stakeholder pension  it means a low-cost SIPP with drawdown options, where the total
charges are comparable to the stakeholder regime (a maximum of 1.5%pa). I consider this
sort of proposition would have been viable with the size of Mr Ts larger DB transfer.
Bearing in mind the possible downside Ive carefully thought about whether Mr T could risk
the more substantial of his two DB transfer values with a drawdown strategy. Putting this
scheme at risk would leave him with about £11,000 of guaranteed income from his state and
other DB pension against the £20,000 gross he desired. At this point I should say Gate has
argued that transferring both schemes allowed Mr T to meet his income needs without
including the state pension. I havent seen where that was agreed as an objective, or that it
would be logical not to include the state pension as part of his income provision.
He and his representative have both confirmed that maximising death benefits for his
children was a driver for transferring. Whilst Mr T did rank death benefits above security of
his pension at the time of advice, he also ranked it below having an opportunity for
investment growth. I note his expression of wish was also for 50% of the death benefits to go
to his then partner  and we know he was keen to support his partner financially with
£20,000 of the tax-free cash [this was a typographical error in my second provisional 
decision and should read £30,000]. This suggests that providing a sustainable income whilst 
Mr T was alive  to not only support himself but potentially his partner  was a relevant 
factor. And as the adviser himself noted, the situation changes considerably with the 25% 
[tax-free cash] drawdown and does not allow for any real benefit to his surviving children.Mr T was unlikely in my view to exclusively draw annuities from all of his pension plans 
unless he was certain he wanted to secure a partners pension for the rest of his life or was
happy only leaving the balance of any guaranteed period to his children. Thats likely to have
meant that income drawdown for some of his pension provision was more attractive to Mr T
than perhaps other investors with his risk profile. And as Gates figures have shown, there
could have been more scope to exceed the DB scheme through drawdown  albeit at the
risk of running out of money if he significantly exceeded his life expectancy.
Weighing this up, I consider there was enough justification for Gate to recommend Mr Ts
larger DB transfer. Providing enough risk was taken it had a lower and potentially achievable
critical yield. And even if Mr T didnt quite achieve the critical yield, he may still have
achieved another objective of providing some lasting benefit to his family if he died early.
Was the smaller DB transfer suitable?
Im not persuaded that Gate demonstrated an adequate case for transferring this pension. Its
critical yield was significantly higher. And its inappropriate for Gate to argue that the critical
yield was below the regulators mid-projection rate unless a reasonable estimate for charges
is included. I again note Gates concern about OIMs charges exceeding the TER figure it
disclosed. But even if Mr T took tax-free cash and a reduced pension, the added impact of
nothing but stakeholder-friendly plan charges (1.5%pa including all fund, product and advice
costs) would have increased the yield from 4.9% to 6.4%pa.
Gate also says I should use the critical yield figure to Mr Ts intended retirement age (67).
This figure wasnt known at the time, but it appears Gate believes it would have lowered the
critical yield (although using a later age actually increased the critical yield on the larger
transfer). If it did lower the critical yield, in my view that would simply reflect an expensive
late retirement factor used by the scheme, which could equally mean that it may have been
better for Mr T to draw the DB pension at age 65 and pay tax on it for two years, than suffer
a late retirement factor affecting the pension for the rest of his life.
A critical yield of at least 6.4% to age 65 on this smaller transfer, when charges were taken
into account, was significantly higher than Gate said Mr T could reasonably expect to
achieve  and I dont believe Gate can argue that it was achievable. The initial fee Gate took
from the SIPP, even spread over the next 10 years, in effect added 0.4% on the critical yield.
There was apparently an aim to consolidate pensions and reduce charges, but I think Gate
should have explained that there were in effect no charges at all for retaining any DB
pensions that Mr T reasonably could.
I accept that bettering the annual pension figure wasnt the only concern, as there was some
(albeit small) possibility Mr T might die before hed received a single payment  and his
children might then be significantly worse off. However I think that Gate should have
considered that this concern would have been adequately mitigated by transferring the larger
DB pension  thus giving Mr T enough flexibility in both income and death benefits whilst at
the same time avoiding exposing all of his pension provision to the same risks.
I said in my first provisional decision that the smaller DB transfer also doesnt seem to have
been necessary to meet Mr Ts short/medium term tax-free cash needs. Gate argues that it
had always been Mr Ts intention to take £45,000 tax-free cash and that the analysis should
be based on the original transfer values. 25% of the originally-quoted transfer value from the
larger DB scheme would only have produced £33,500, with £10,900 available from the
smaller transfer. Mr T has subsequently been able to take £46,500 of tax-free cash.
Ive thought about this carefully, but its also reasonable to assess the advice based on what
the adviser documented about Mr Ts intentions. The comment You would like to raise acapital sum of £45,000 over the next few months to assist with your business growth lacks
the specificity of the sum of £15,000 that is said to be required immediately. If all of the
money was required within only a few months of the suitability report  which itself pre-dates
the actual transfers  I find it more likely that Mr T would take all the tax-free cash as soon
as it was available, to ensure it was ready for use. Yet the adviser actually explored phased
drawdown with Mr T because he apparently didnt require all the tax-free cash at once.
As we know, Mr T only withdrew a total of £29,000 within about four months of the suitability
report (so double the initial sum of £15,000, but within the tax-free cash he was expecting to
get from the larger DB transfer). The remainder was withdrawn over the next 15 months, and
in effect used for his partners medical treatment  something that wasnt discussed at the
time of the advice. Unsurprisingly as Mr T is still working, relatively little taxable income has
been needed from the SIPP to date  so Im mindful that if Mr T hadnt transferred both DB
pensions then some of the cost of supporting his partner or his business could have been
met from drawdown income on the larger transfer.
In my view when taking into account Mr Ts attitude to risk, not all of his aims could be
simultaneously met. If he wanted to ensure that some of his pension went to his children on
his death, that involved taking risks that meant he (and his partner) might end up with less
income during his lifetime. So these risks needed to be carefully balanced. And I think there
was justification here for Mr T not to put all his eggs in one basket.
Gates notes record that Mr T originally came to it to investigate whether he could stagger
taking tax-free cash from his DB schemes  i.e. not take it all at once. The adviser then
noted, The client didnt accept our suggestion of looking at each pension at different times.
Not only are the two comments incongruous, the subsequent one is lacking the explanation
the adviser should have been providing in the suitability report. He should have explained
that it was suitable advice to delay transferring the smaller DB scheme to retain the underpin
of a guaranteed pension, until perhaps a need for further tax-free cash was unavoidable.
If Mr T had followed this advice, he would have had up to £39,700 tax-free cash initially from
the larger scheme (owing to a recalculation of its transfer value). I dont agree that this
involves viewing the advice with hindsight. Its a reflection of the situation Mr T would have
been presented with had he been suitably advised to act more prudently at the time.
Gate suggested that Mr T would potentially sell his business to supplement his retirement
income, but now says I shouldnt speculate on this possibility. It cant have this both ways.
Its very difficult to quantify the value of a company that is built up around the individual who
generates its business, if they were to cease to be involved. I notice the amount from a
potential business sale is stated as unknown in the suitability letter, and Mr T was only
deriving £14,400pa of income from it. If he was looking to invest fresh money into the
business, it remains unclear whether it was self-sustaining (or whether he would see a return
on the investment he made). The adviser raised the same concern in his notes: The
unknown return on a new investment in his business is a risk. There isnt much here to
indicate that Mr T would be comfortably off in retirement from the sale of that business.
Regarding Mr Ts health, the suitability letter said you are in average health and you do not
smoke. You have not offered any information suggesting that your health is not good, such
as medication being taken or specific illnesses. This is consistent with Mr Ts recollection
that his diabetes was under control and wouldnt have a significant impact on his life
expectancy. So notwithstanding that some flexibility with death benefits was desirable, Im
not satisfied succession planning should have been at the total expense of any security of
Mr Ts own pension income so that he could have a comfortable retirement.
I consider Gate should have explained to Mr T that he could hedge his retirement planning
between the guarantees provided by the smaller DB pension and the greater flexibilityafforded from transferring the larger one  flexibility that could have included, where
necessary, covering the relatively small additional amount of cash hes actually taken using
net-of-tax income from the SIPP. And had it given this advice, I think Mr T would have seen
the logic and sense in that approach  and been willing to follow it. So Im upholding Mr Ts
complaint in respect of the smaller DB transfer.
Separately, was the OIM portfolio suitable?
If Mr T had only transferred the larger DB scheme, and even allowing for the subsequent
increase in transfer value, he would have had about £143,000 to invest after his immediate
tax-free cash needs (possibly falling to about £119,000 later on if he did take the maximum
tax-free cash in the short term). This was a reasonable amount to invest, at least initially -
although I think it would have been below the size that some (but not all) DIMs would accept.
Im mindful that the possible benefits of DIM do increase with larger fund sizes as it allows
for more diversification than an adviser and their client may be able to manage through
giving and accepting regular recommendations.
Im also mindful that Mr T was evidently not a particularly sophisticated investor who would
understand the need for more advanced hedging strategies that DFM can often involve. He
had evidently never made investments even in stocks and bonds before. However there is a
range of DFM offerings available and these can include the model portfolios provided by big
name pension providers.
I think the issue here was how much more expensive the OIM portfolio was likely to be than
one of these more standard offerings, because as Ive said above, high charges would have
been detrimental to Mr Ts larger DB transfer achieving its critical yield. And whether  had it
been managed in the way OIM had indicated, the portfolio would have been appropriate to
Mr Ts level of understanding and experience.
Gate has provided the OIM balanced model portfolio factsheet for the third quarter of 2016
(based on data at 30 June 2016). This describes the portfolio as a blend of bonds, exchange
traded funds (ETFs), global equities and European registered mutual funds (UCITS). Whilst
it contains no performance data or details of the specific assets the portfolio would invest in,
I understand that to be because the portfolio had just been established. It did however say:
We are becoming increasingly enthusiastic with assets that have a lower correlation to traditional
asset classes, along with those that exhibit less price action, as our drivers for both performance
and capital preservation. We are looking at Gold, diversification of duration in Developed
Government Debt and increasing asset class diversity within our Corporate Debt exposures.
A current portfolio composition was shown where the largest holding (37%) was in
corporate bonds. Equities totalled 30%, followed by market neutral assets (15%),
government bonds (12%) with lower amounts in commodities and cash. And contrary to the
assertions Gate made in its suitability report to Mr T about OIM not managing the sub-funds,
the factsheet already said (with my emphasis) A proportion of the portfolio may be invested
in funds in which [OIM] have an agreement to manage such funds.
The factsheet gave no indication of any limit on how many of the sub-funds OIM could
directly manage, what hedging strategies were going to be adopted in the non-correlated
assets, and how diversified the corporate bond exposure was going to be. However at the
same time it didnt suggest a particularly large component of hedge funds and other
advanced strategies was likely to be employed in the portfolio. And Gate has made the point
that having some below investment-grade debt in a portfolio wouldnt take it outside the
overall risk range of an investor like Mr T. I dont necessarily disagree with this point, within
reason.
However in my view the somewhat sketchy information provided about the intended assetswould have put more onus on Gate to do thorough due diligence before recommending OIM
was employed to manage his portfolio. That requirement was increased yet further when on
24 January 2017 (in between the payment of Mr Ts two transfer values) the FCA issued a
scam warning2 about DIMs potentially being open to the risk of scams involving nonstandard
assets, including illiquid bonds.
We now know that the FCA was also investigating OIM by this point, but I accept Gates
argument that this wasnt made public until much later on. So Ive considered whether the
due diligence Gate had already carried out would have provided reasonable assurance that
the OIM portfolio would be managed appropriately, including in light of the FCA scam
warning. Its relevant for me to take into account that since my first provisional decision Gate
has uncovered further emails between the adviser and OIM answering bespoke questions.
Its unfortunate this evidence wasnt provided sooner as I now think my first provisional
decision would have been different.
In a response dated 23 August 2016 (after the above factsheet), OIM confirmed that it
may invest in funds within the model portfolios where we play the role of an investment
adviser but not the role of the management company. And: We can confirm that [OIM] will
not be investing in any assets that fails outside a standard asset" definition. Funds (ETFs
and UCITS) that we will invest in are also not allowed by mandate and rules to invest in non
"standard assets".
Although OIM wasnt in a position to detail every bond it was proposed the funds invest in at
that time, it gave the examples of Ladbrokes for high-yield bonds and Gazprom for emerging
market equity. OIM confirmed it was invested in ten exchange-traded funds (ETFs) which
was to be its minimum number, giving examples. OIM also explained how its compliance
structure involved external companies  and set out that the alternatives it would invest in
would be commodities such as gold and silver. I also acknowledge its comment, We will
endeavour to keep TERs as low as possible; realistically below 0.8%, which includes
Organics management charges but could be as high as 1.00%.
These were reasonably comprehensive answers to the advisers questions, and the
approximate banding of charges OIM provided does limit the extent to which OIM would
have been more costly than a more conventional pension arrangement such as a model
portfolio with a big name pension provider. OIMs own annual charge within this of 0.30%
including VAT was competitive. Once the SIPP charges of 0.4%pa and the advisers fees
were included the whole proposition would arguably become a little more expensive than
necessary, but not appreciably such that the prospect of potentially better performance
wasnt a relevant factor. And I note that the only fixed cost (which affects lower fund sizes
more) was only £150pa to the SIPP provider.
The adviser did raise concerns at the time about OIMs balance sheet and received
reassurances that it was improving  but also took comfort in the fact that OIM didnt have
direct custody of client funds. He remained concerned at what would happen if OIM ceased
to operate, and was looking to confirm that the situation had improved in the next filing of
accounts. He complied a summary of his due diligence, which included the following:
whilst one could see external compliance as a negative, this adds a layer of independence and 
removes a layer of conflict which many larger firms do not have.
There is a risk of inappropriate allocations based on manager bias and opinion. But the 
investment managers are subject to investment committee and compliance department controls 
and checks to monitor asset allocations and adherence to mandate/overall risk profiles. Allocations 
need to be monitored.
2 https://www.fca.org.uk/news/news-stories/pension-scheme-operators-risk-smarter-scamsIt is possible to place a reliance on the trustees of the SIPPs or SSAS providers, UCITS 
management companies/auditors, to ensure the quality and appropriate nature of the assets being 
bought. Portfolio checks required, at least when performing client reviews.
Organic are nimble enough to move in and out of ETFs, UCITS, individual holdings and are not
too large in [assets under management] that they are almost forced into selecting certain
managers and products that can accommodate large investments.
OIMs enthusiasm for non-correlated assets subsequently seems to have gone beyond the
assurances it gave to the adviser at the time. That was likely aided by the fact that after
starting out to advise the managers on two of the funds to which it gave its name  the
Organic Bond Fund and the Organic Long/Short Alpha Fund  at some later point OIM then
became the manager of the funds. It had originally informed Gate that its role in managing
(some of) the ETF and UCITS funds would be no more than an advisory one. And all three
of the funds to which Organic gave its name brought the overall charges beyond the level it
had originally indicated.
Its worth saying that in the event the fund managers had always followed OIMs advice
without question, that would be tantamount to OIM managing the fund  and Im not satisfied
that Gate could rely on the SIPP provider itself to spot whether this was happening. But I do
think Gate would reasonably expect the fund managers themselves to observe liquidity
requirements and apply their own scrutiny independently of any advice they took from OIM.
And on balance, I dont think its necessarily wrong for a DIM to be able to give input into
asset selection for funds for which it was a major customer and that it would be aiming to
use to achieve an appropriate balance across the whole portfolio.
Given the lead time thats always necessary when recommending DB transfers I cant fairly
say that the adviser failed to keep his due diligence reasonably up to date. The two funds
OIM went on to manage were only established during December 2016, after the suitability
report and very shortly before Mr Ts first investment. And as documented, the adviser
concluded OIMs operation was something to be monitored rather than being of such
immediate concern that Mr T shouldnt invest at all. Such monitoring would be good industry
practice with any DIM, and would take place at intervals during the year (as day-to-day
management had been passed on to the DIM).
However Mr Ts funds were received by OIM in January and March 2017, and by 10 May
Gate was writing to him about his recent request (which I understand to have been in April)
to change advisers. I dont consider this left enough time for the monitoring measures Gate
had decided to put in place to have effect, so I cant fairly say this should count against
Gates selection of OIM as the DIM in this case.
Ive also considered the content of the FCAs supervisory notice, which wasnt published
until December 2018. The FCA had become concerned about some of the things which the
adviser himself noted in his original due diligence, including OIMs low staff count (which had
become lower still) and reliance on an external compliance function. But the adviser had
originally perceived that there were potentially benefits as well as risks in OIM being a
smaller, more nimble operation. He had mitigated against those risks, at least whilst he was
with Gate, by setting out to monitor OIMs actions.
Furthermore its clear that Gate did later become concerned about these changes, as
evidenced in its letters to Mr T. But as Mr T was no longer its client, it wasnt in a position to
advise him to encash his portfolio. It can be always be argued with hindsight that the adviser
should have put more weight on the compliance issues in his due diligence. But on balance,
I dont think the level of due diligence carried out was negligent, or the originally proposed
charges were so detrimental to the suitability of the recommendation, such that Gate should
now be expected to compensate for OIMs departure from the mandate as set out, as well as
Gates own failings.However Gate should have some responsibility to compensate Mr T for being exposed to the
investment risk involved in one DB transfer. And I also dont think this is simply a case of that
responsibility ending the moment Mr T switched to the advisers subsequent firm. I will
discuss what fair compensation looks like in view of both OIM and the subsequent firms
involvement next.
Responses to my second provisional decision
I should again note that Mr Ts representative accepted the second provisional decision 
without further comment.
Gate responded on 27 July 2021. In summary, it said:
It cannot see why the member would want to transfer out of a DB scheme, only to 
buy an annuity (at historically low levels of around 1/3 of what they were 15 years 
ago) to try to replicate or beat the scheme benefits.
So the critical yield would be a red herring here. Thats why the FCA introduced an 
alternative measure  appropriate pension transfer analysis. It shouldnt be assumed 
a transfer is unsuitable just because the critical yield is too high.
My conclusions should not be based on the fact that Mr T was subsequently able to 
avoid drawing the £45,000 it considers he needed from the SIPP for several years. If 
a client says that they require £45,000 over a period of a few months, with £15,000 
being required immediately, how is one sum more specific than the other?
Mr T did say at the time that the minimum of £45,000 was not just to support his 
business, but also for personal reasons  as recorded in the advisers discussion 
notes. It thinks this is a reference to the medical expenses of Mr Ts partner.
Mr T would have transferred both DB schemes come what may, something he has 
in fact confirmed to the ombudsman service himself  and via his representatives 
who accepted the adjudicators view saying this.
Its view remains that the advisers subsequent firm could and should have divested 
Mr T of the OIM investments well before they did. If the adviser did not act, this was 
simply negligence. By remaining Mr Ts adviser, the adviser assumed responsibility 
for this. This is borne out in why Mr T complained initially to that firm. (It appreciates 
that as I have attributed the losses in the portfolio to OIM, this point may not matter.)
I appreciated the difficulty Gate had in understanding why I had reached a different outcome 
to the adjudicator in respect of the smaller DB transfer. So I sent an email to Gate on 
9 September clarifying the comments Mr T had made to our adjudicator in a phone call on 
2 July 2019. We dont have a recording of this call, but the notes the adjudicator made  as 
Ive set out in the background above  were that Mr T wasnt aware at the time of advice of 
the need to spend £30,000 on his partners medical expenses.
As Mr T told us he spent £15,000 on his business  the immediate sum referred to in Gates 
fact find  I said it was reasonable to assume that he spent the rest of the £29,000 he 
withdrew in the immediate aftermath of the advice on clearing his £7,000 credit card debt (or 
to build up personal funds). He didnt need to make both DB transfers in order to do this  in 
fact the further sums he has gone on to withdraw could have been accommodated from 
withdrawals of some income as well as the maximum tax-free cash from the larger DB 
transfer.
I reiterated that no logical explanation has been given by Gate for why, having originally 
initiated an enquiry to Gate himself about phasing in the drawing of his benefits, Mr T was then suddenly said to be unwilling to defer the second DB scheme  at least until it was 
unavoidably needed. 
Gate briefly commented further in response to my email, wanting to make clear that Mr T 
said on numerous occasions the full £45,000 would be needed  and he wanted 
guaranteed access to those funds. He did in the fullness of time, withdraw more than 
£45,000 from his pension. Gate also added that there was no mention of a girlfriend/partner 
at the time of advice. And Mr T did benefit from phased drawdown, as these sums were 
available  but remained invested until they were needed.
In Gates view, the adviser did challenge Mr T as to the requirement for the full £45,000  
which was when he said that some of it was for personal reasons. (The implication I think 
being Gate believes the adviser was not in a position to pry further.) If I was suggesting that 
the adviser encouraged Mr T to take more tax-free cash than he immediately required, Gate 
considered that to be a biased conclusion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts representative didnt provide any further arguments for me to consider, but Ive 
considered the comments has Gate made carefully. Whilst they havent changed the overall 
conclusions I reached in my second provisional decision, I will explain my findings further 
below.
It's important to remember that the starting presumption the regulator requires firms to make 
when advising on DB transfers is that a DB transfer wont be suitable. It should only consider 
a transfer if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer is in 
the clients best interests (COBS 19.1.6G, with my emphasis).
Arguably, the fact that Mr Ts children (or even his partner, if they didnt marry) would not 
benefit from a spouses pension from the DB schemes already provided some justification to 
transfer. I took that into account in deciding the larger DB transfer was suitable advice. The 
other reason why that transfer was suitable was that it appeared to provide more than 
enough tax-free cash to meet Mr Ts immediate needs.
The larger DB transfer went a long way to addressing Mr Ts requirement to preserve some 
capital in the event of his death, given that he wasnt married. But as I explained in my 
second provisional decision, I dont consider it was suitable advice to pursue this aim to the 
ultimate detriment of Mr T having any guarantees left on his private pension income. I dont 
consider Mr T had a high enough risk profile for it to have been reasonable for him to rely on 
income drawdown for all his retirement income (other than the state pension).
It seems to me that the adviser appreciated this also  as it was not solely for the purpose of 
preserving death benefits that he gave his advice. He believed that he had substantiated a 
need for Mr T to access tax-free cash to such a degree that both transfers would always be 
necessary  and that it was worth sacrificing all guarantees on Mr Ts pensions to achieve 
this. But I dont think on a fair and reasonable basis, all discussion should simply end there. 
Its very easy to record that Mr T required guaranteed access to at least £45,000 tax-free 
cash  and I have no reason to conclude that Mr T didnt likely say this at the time. But as 
Ive said above COBS 19.1.6G meant the adviser had to clearly demonstrate, with enough 
evidence at the time, that a somewhat vague reason for needing all the cash over a 
somewhat indefinite time-frame made an irreversible loss of guarantees suitable at that immediate point. I appreciate Gate is suggesting the adviser attempted to do this and was 
faced with the answer personal reasons.
Gate both suggests that these reasons might have been Mr Ts partners medical expenses, 
but also says it didnt know about his partner at the time of advice. Whilst I agree she wasnt 
written on the fact find, I reiterate that she was nominated to receive some of the SIPP death 
benefits. Yet Mr T told our investigator  and again I have no reason to doubt this  that he 
was unaware he would need to spend £30,000 on medical expenses at the time of advice.
Mr T saying that he required £15,000 for his business, and the remainder either for his 
business at a later date or for other undefined personal reasons (even Gates notes vary on 
this over time), did justify a transfer of the larger DB scheme, in my view. But it did not justify 
both transfers, at least without further clarification. If  as Gate is suggesting  Mr T wouldnt 
have been willing to divulge further information, I dont think that makes a difference here. 
He hadnt yet demonstrated enough of a need for more than the £33,500 tax-free cash the 
larger DB transfer would give him. So Im satisfied Gate should have advised him to make 
the larger DB transfer only. 
Importantly, the advice had to be supported by reasons in a suitability letter. So Gate should 
have explained that Mr Ts overall medium attitude to risk meant that in order to be reliant 
on drawdown for the bulk of his retirement income, it was suitable for him to retain the 
guarantees on the smaller portion that he didnt immediately need. As the adviser didnt 
explain this, Im not persuaded by Gates argument that Mr T would always have preferred to 
have all his benefits in phased drawdown, and lose guarantees before he strictly needed to. 
The adviser had never explained why the higher critical yield on the smaller DB transfer 
meant that, in all likelihood, the risk of Mr T losing out on guaranteed income he might need 
to rely on in later retirement was too great. For example, if the drawdown strategy failed in 
sub-optimal investment conditions, he ran out of money and was left to largely manage on 
the state pension only.
I note what Gate says about the relevance of the critical yield, but as it itself admits, there 
has always been a regulatory requirement to refer to the cost of securing benefits outside 
the DB scheme as an annuity  now its called the transfer value comparator. That clearly 
indicates the regulators view that its still important for investors (many of whom do not have 
particularly high attitudes to risk) to have an indication of how much growth they will need to 
achieve to compete with a risk free alternative. They need to have the complete picture of 
the risks they are taking in exchanging one fundamentally different type of pension for 
another. 
Thats simply what the critical yield on the smaller transfer was saying here, even if Mr T was 
to a partial extent a candidate for drawdown because of his personal circumstances. This 
figure suggested it was more worthwhile Mr T taking what risk he could afford to take on the 
larger DB transfer, and leaving the smaller one intact  because it provided him with a safety 
net to take that risk. Despite what Gate says about the limitations of using this measure, Im 
satisfied it is relevant (and reasonable) to compare the two critical yields in this way.
That doesnt of course mean Gate would need to rule out a transfer of the smaller DB 
scheme at every stage up to retirement. But I dont think it could clearly demonstrate, using 
contemporary evidence, that this transfer was suitable given the somewhat vaguely 
quantified needs Mr T had in November 2016. 
Notwithstanding that a significant sum (£30,000) was later provided to his partner, its 
notable that Mr T appears to have avoided accessing particularly substantial amounts in 
taxable income payments from the SIPP over the years it has been running, and indeed only did so relatively recently. A DB pension would be reduced on an actuarially equivalent basis 
for early payment. So in my view, the moment would not yet have arrived when he found he 
had an unavoidable need to access the smaller DB scheme too. 
As I set out previously, I believe the relatively small shortfall in tax-free cash by not making 
the smaller DB transfer could have been covered by a modest amount of taxable income 
withdrawals from the proceeds of making the larger transfer into drawdown. The loss of tax 
efficiency in withdrawing that additional amount would be outweighed in my view by retaining 
the guarantees as part of Mr Ts overall retirement planning.
I dont think reaching this view is a matter of hindsight, as its prompted by a lack of specific 
reasoning in Gates original advice, as required by COBS 19.1.6G. As the advice lacked 
reasoning, my review of the evidence has included (but is not solely based on) considering 
Mr Traynors subsequent actions, to weigh up what is most likely to have been his 
requirement for cash at the time of the advice, and how he would then have acted having 
only made one DB transfer.
Finally, I understand Gates point that Mr Ts representative accepted the adjudicators 
original view (that Mr T would have transferred both DB schemes come what may). 
However Gate didnt accept the redress the adjudicator proposed at the time, for reasons I 
largely now agree with. Our process is an inquisitorial rather than an adversarial one, so in 
considering Gates objection to the investigators view Ive reviewed everything holistically. 
In doing so I found I didnt actually agree with the adjudicator that Mr T would always have 
made both transfers. I dont think its fair or reasonable to conclude that Mr T would have 
gone against the suitable advice which Gates adviser should have given him. After all, he 
had gone to Gate for its view on what he should do. The fact that Mr Ts representative also 
agreed with my revised view also doesnt strongly suggest that it was firmly of the view that 
he would have made both DB transfers either. And I note that Mr Ts original complaint 
actually asserted that he didnt have capacity to bear the loss of transferring away from the 
DB schemes, and he wouldnt have done so had he received appropriate advice.
Should Gates compensation be limited by the involvement of other firms?
Under DISP 3.6.3G I may apportion compensation between two or more respondents, where
all the associated complaints are in front of the ombudsman. Owing to the default of two of
the firms involved to FSCS, that isnt the case here. But I may also decide in some
circumstances that it isnt fair or reasonable to make an award for 100% of the consumers
losses against the respondent subject to the decision. Whether its appropriate to reach that
conclusion here depends in my view on the extent to which OIMs mismanagement of the
portfolio was foreseeable and mitigated by the due diligence Gate undertook into OIM at the
time. And in this case I think the substantial evidence Gate has provided of its due diligence
does mean that fair compensation shouldnt include the losses caused by OIM.
What I set out in the putting things right section below also takes into account that no 
further advice appears to have been given by the advisers subsequent firm after April 2017 
on the ongoing suitability of OIM as a DIM. That means its not a straightforward argument to 
make that the advisers subsequent firm has its own liability to Mr T and as a result the 
period of calculation could be capped to the date that further advice was given. And if (as 
Gate suggests) no 1%pa trail commission was taken from the OIM portfolio, it is in turn 
harder to allege the advisers subsequent firm had any obligation to provide ongoing advice. 
I understand Gates point that, even though there appears to be no freshly documented 
agreement for that firm to provide ongoing advice, by taking agency over Mr Ts SIPP it was 
obligated to do so. That isnt an unreasonable point. But it will be familiar with the concept of the client entering into a retainer for the firm to provide such advice, and if that is absent 
that is why I say Mr T may not have a straightforward claim (eg against FSCS) that it should 
have given advice.
Ive also considered the letters Gate sent Mr T. In respect of its first letter in May 2017,
simply saying to Mr T that it isnt liable for his ongoing losses doesnt make it so  thats a
matter for me to decide. And that letter doesnt give a reason for Mr T to need to mitigate a
loss. In the subsequent April and July 2018 letters, Gate said it had concerns about OIM but
not what those concerns were. However it does in effect give him a reason to speak to his
current adviser.
Mr T cannot recall these letters, which were correctly addressed to the flat where hes
confirmed he lived at the time  so I think its highly likely they would have been successfully
delivered. But by March 2019, hes evidenced the adviser at his new firm was also writing to 
him. Those letters also refer back to earlier communications, so its likely that at the very 
least, the adviser was in discussion with Mr T about OIM going into administration in 
December 2018  shortly after the FCA published its notice. This doesnt, in my view, 
change what Ive said above. The absence of any retainer for the advisers subsequent firm 
to give advice didnt prevent it contacting Mr T with notices it likely received about OIM, as it 
had agency over the SIPP  and was left as the contact point for those notices.
Gates letters to Mr T in 2018 were sent significantly after the point it says it was successfully 
able to liquidate its own clients. The FCA final notice indicates that by October 2018 
redemptions on the funds had significantly increased  for a reason that must be unrelated 
to the as yet unpublished notice. The fund performance graphs Gate has provided showed 
that there were significant downward spikes in the prices of the funds OIM managed 
between February and May 2018, presumably caused by rapid selling to satisfy demand  
and the fund prices then started falling steadily.
So within a reasonable time of Mr T being able to act on these letters, if (as is likely) he 
received them, I think there might reasonably have been some concern at whether he could 
successfully redeem the investments, or do so at a fair price. I wouldnt necessarily expect 
Mr T to make a knee-jerk reaction and sell the whole holding, as he or his adviser wouldnt 
necessarily know if they were making a mistake. They werent to know that the FCA was 
about to publish a highly critical document. So their next course of action would take some 
consideration and they may well have concluded that Mr T had already missed the
opportunity to exit the investments at minimal loss.
To break the chain of causation I would usually expect to see evidence of advice from
another party, or a clear reason to suggest that Mr T was no longer reliant to any extent on
the original advice he received from Gate. I do consider that time arrived by 19 August 2019,
because by then most (or all) of the likely value in the OIM portfolio appears to have been
returned to Mr Ts SIPP. Then then gave him a reasonable opportunity to take further advice
on reinvesting liquid funds, which he doesnt appear to have sought. So Ive also taken this 
into account.
As I explained in my second provisional decision  and Gate has now acknowledged  the 
impact of taking into account OIMs contribution to Mr Ts loss is that Gate wont have to pay 
compensation based on any missed opportunity to liquidate the OIM portfolio at an earlier 
point.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr T as close as possible tothe position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr T wouldnt have transferred his smaller DB pension, for the reasons Ive explained 
above. Im satisfied that Mr T would have followed what would have been logically explained 
advice to meet those aims, and better protect his income in retirement than the 
recommendation Gate actually made.
I dont consider there should be any compensation to pay at all in respect of the larger DB 
transfer. I say this because the June 2016 factsheet for OIMs balanced portfolio says that it 
was to be benchmarked against the following indices (on a total return basis):
40% - Barclays Capital Bond Composite Global Index
60% - MSCI World Index
This is essentially a 40% bond / 60% share benchmark, and not dissimilar to the FTSE UK
Private Investors Income Total Return Index that I would refer to as a proxy where Mr T was 
willing to take broadly medium risk with this part of his pension arrangements. So if OIM had 
managed the portfolio to that benchmark, Im not satisfied Mr T would have suffered a 
material loss. 
For any remaining compensation in respect of the performance of the DFM arrangement
Mr T would need to look to the FSCS, given the extent of Gates due diligence into OIM in
this particular case.
For the smaller DB transfer, a fair and reasonable outcome here would be for Gate to put
Mr T, as far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice to
transfer. Gate should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension
transfers3.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
Gate may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ts
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
As part of this calculation, the value of the defined benefits given up should be compared 
with the original transfer value from the smaller DB scheme (£48,115.00 on 24 March 2017), 
with the latter having been increased up to the date of my final decision in line with the 
composite benchmark that OIM was to manage Mr Ts portfolio to on a total return basis: 
40% - Barclays Capital Bond Composite Global Index, 60% - MSCI World Index. 
In the event that sufficient data isnt available on either of the indices making up that 
benchmark, I will accept if Gate uses as a close substitute the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index. Updating the £48,115 transfer value to the date of the decision 
reflects the fact that Gate isnt responsible for Mr T not reinvesting the proceeds of the OIM 
liquidation back into the markets.
3 https://www.fca.org.uk/publications/finalised-guidance/fg17-9-guidance-firms-how-calculate-redress-
unsuitable-defined-benefit-pension-transfersThe total return on shares and bonds has generally been positive since March 2017  the 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index for example growing by 30%
overall. So had Mr T not suffered the falls in value under OIM, I consider it would 
subsequently have proved possible for him to take most if not all of the £46,500 tax-free 
cash he has accessed from the proceeds of his larger DB transfer alone (with any residual 
amount as small income payments from that transfer).
For that reason I consider the redress calculation for the smaller DB transfer should be
carried out as a prospective loss based on the normal retirement age of the DB scheme, in
line with the usual pension review methodology.
If there is a loss, compensation in respect of that loss should if possible be paid into Mr Ts
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the overall gross loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date
Gate receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be
added at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Gate to pay Mr T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ts complaint and require Gate Capital Group Ltd to pay him compensation as 
set out in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman