DRN-4150668
The complaint
Mr K complains about the MBNA Limiteds (MBNA) response to his claim under section 75
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint last month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MBNA, but I agree that this complaint should be upheld, and I think
they need to fund the cost of replacing the floor. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case
here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit
Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Section 49 (1) of the Consumer Rights Act (2015) says that:
Every contract to supply a service is to be treated as including a term that the trader must
perform the service with reasonable care and skill.
I think there has been a breach of contract here as I dont think the trader has performed the
service with reasonable care and skill. Notes from the trader confirm the sofa was dropped
during delivery, and an Independent Assessment has concluded that damage caused by
heavy furniture being dropped and dragged upon the oak flooring is substantial and has not
only indented the surface but, on a balance of probability, dislodged the foundations
supporting the sub-floor and floor. It was the independent assessors view that the whole
floor would probably need to be uplifted and replaced.
It seems MBNA have now accepted that damage has been caused as a consequence of the
breach of contract. Theyve offered to pay for the floor to be replaced but only if they can
deduct the £3,000 the trader offered Mr K in October 2021 that they feel may still be
available.
I dont think thats fair as its a clumsy resolution for Mr K. He would need to negotiate with
the sofa supplier, MBNA, and the flooring supplier, and its not been confirmed that the
settlement from the sofa supplier is still available either.
Section 75 gives Mr K an equal right to claim against MBNA as against the sofa supplier.
That section of the Act was established as there was a recognition that there was often an
inequality in negotiating power between the consumer and the supplier. I dont therefore
think it would be fair to put Mr K back in the same position of having to negotiate with the
supplier and/or pay money to reclaim some of it from the supplier. I think MBNA should take
full responsibility for resolving the issue for him.
It is for MBNA to then decide if they wish to pursue the supplier for that money and, given
that they would have settled the whole claim, I think their chances of doing so successfully
would be enhanced.
I understand that Mr K would prefer to be given the money so that he could arrange his own
replacement floor, in his own time. I think MBNA need to cover the consequential costs of
the floor replacement, but there is no requirement for them to provide the money in advance
of the redress, and by paying for the installation directly I think that protects Mr K from any
subsequent inflation of the instalment cost.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell MBNA
Limited to pay the new floor supplier directly for the cost of the installation. The supplier
should be chosen by MBNA on the basis of two up to date quotes, for the same specification
of work, that Mr K will need to provide.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr K said he was happy with the proposed decision and that I can get another two flooring 
specialists to quote and have MBNA pick the preferred installer and pay them in full once the 
work is complete he added that this will likely be into next year now. He also said  if 
MBNA wish, Im also still happy for MBNA to deduct the £3000.00 from (the) quote they have 
of £9726.00 and make a final payment £6726.00 to me, for full and final settlement.
MBNA said they were happy to accept my provisional decision and just ask that the two 
quotes Mr K provides are on letter headed paper with the companys address and contact 
details, and should include:
A fixed total price  not a daily rate
Breakdown of all work to be done and materials
How long the price is valid for
If the price includes VAT
Once the work is completed, we will make a payment direct to the new floor supplier.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think MBNAs requirements are unreasonable and I havent seen any reason to 
change my provisional decision. If MBNA want to accept Mr Ks counter offer, that is a 
decision for them.
Putting things right
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MBNA Limited to pay the 
new floor supplier directly for the cost of the installation. The supplier should be chosen by 
MBNA on the basis of two up to date quotes, for the same specification of work, that Mr K 
will need to provide. The quotes will need to conform to the requirements listed above under 
Responses to my provisional decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman