DRN-1657044
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr W says Canada Square Operations Limited (then known as Egg) mis-sold him the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Ws case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr W says the PPI was added to his card without his knowledge. Egg shouldve made Mr W 
aware he had a choice about buying the PPI. From the information Ive seen I think Mr Ws 
PPI policy was bought through an internet application. Ive seen some screen shots showing 
the application process at the time. And that included the options Yes and No, for the 
consumer to select or decline PPI. One of these options wouldve had to be selected before 
moving onto the next stage of the application. 
Ive also seen a copy of the information Mr W entered during his application with Egg, this 
includes his personal details and responses to any questions. The information shows that 
PPI was selected during the application process. So whilst there is no application form 
based on the evidence we do have I think its more likely Egg made it clear that Mr W didnt 
have to take out the PPI, and that he chose to take it out. Considering how long ago the sale 
was its understandable he no longer remembers it.
Ive also seen copies of statements from Mr Ws credit card account. These show that 
the charge for the PPI was listed as a separate entry. So if Mr W hadnt agreed to take out 
the PPI, or it was added without his knowledge, I think he would have questioned this 
with Egg when he saw the payments on his statements.
Egg didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr W got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.
Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like Mr W was 
affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  so it wouldve been useful 
for him if something went wrong. Mr W says he wouldve received some sick pay from his 
employer at the time. But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay he wouldve 
received and for up to 12 months if he was unable to work because of accident or sickness. 
It also wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if he lost his job. So I think he wouldve found 
the policy useful.It also looks like the PPI was affordable for Mr W. And as the policys premiums were paid 
monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said but this hasnt changed my mind about not 
upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Canada Square 
Operations Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman