DRN-2835646
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about a delay in transferring an ISA to Elevate Portfolio Services 
Limited (Elevate) from another provider. 
Mr and Mrs J say that as the transfer took longer than expected, they suffered a financial 
loss and would like compensated for the difference in value from when it should have taken 
place to when it was completed.
What happened
On 11 February 2020, Mr and Mrs Js independent financial adviser (IFA) entered 
instructions to transfer an ISA from another provider (who I will call Company A) to Elevate. 
It is understood that the IFA entered the incorrect name of Company A at this point.
On 18 February 2020, Elevate received the signed transfer forms and attempted to 
process the transfer via Altus which is commonly used system to transfer investments 
between providers. This was rejected the next day as the transfer couldnt be supported 
via this method.
On 20 February 2020, Elevate sent the forms to the address shown on the transfer forms. 
On 6 March 2020, Mr and Mrs Js IFA called Elevate to ask Company A for an update.
On 11 March 2020, Elevate called Company A but they couldnt get through, so they sent 
an email. Elevate chased again on 25 March 2020 and 5 April 2020, to which they 
received automatic acknowledgements.
On 8 April 2020, Elevate tried calling Company A on another number they had located, but 
there wasnt a response.
On 9 April 2020, Company A contacted Elevate by email to say that they hadnt received 
the transfer forms, therefore they werent able to provide an update.
On 9 April 2020, Elevate responded asking if they would accept certified copies of the 
transfer forms and for confirmation of which address the forms should be sent to.
On 4 May 2020, Elevate called Company A as they hadnt received a response to the 
email of 9 April. Company A confirmed that they would need original transfer forms.
On the same day, Elevate sent an email to Mr and Mrs Js IFA informing them of the above
Elevate emailed Mr and Mrs J s IFA on 27 May 2020 and 3 and 10 June 2020 as they 
didnt receive a response to the above
On 10 June 2020, Mr and Mrs Js IFA emailed Elevate to ask if they could email the forms 
and Elevate confirmed that Company A wanted the original forms to be sent in.
On 25 June 2020, Elevate called Company A and it was confirmed that they hadnt 
received any new paperwork.
On 25 June 2020, Elevate contacted Mr and Mrs Js IFA to ask when the new forms had 
been sent.
On 30 June 2020, Elevate received a revised transfer form from Mr and Mrs Js IFA and sent 
these on the same day to Company A.
On 16 July 2020, Elevate received the cheque and email confirmation was sent to Mr 
and Mrs Js IFA.
Unhappy with how Elevate had handled their transfer, Mr and Mrs J referred their complaint 
to the service and one of our investigators reviewed the complaint.
As Elevate hadnt issued a final response to Mr and Mrs J, the investigator asked them for 
information and comments on the complaint. Elevate provided details and their comments 
about the delays in the transfer.
The investigator looked at the information and comments and issued their view to Mr and 
Mrs J. The investigator didnt think that Elevate had acted unfairly and didnt do anything 
wrong. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr and Mrs J have asked for an ombudsman to look at 
their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs J but I agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator for much the same reasons and wont be upholding the complaint. I know that 
Mr and Mrs J feel strongly about their complaint and I will explain why I have reached this 
decision.
It is important to note that the role of the service is not that of a regulator and we dont have 
powers to punish a business for doing things wrong or making mistakes. 
The service will look at a complaint and if a business has made a mistake, we will ask them 
to put the consumer back into the position that they should have been in had the mistake not 
occurred. The service will also look at any trouble and upset the mistake may have caused.
Mr and Mrs Js complaint is about delays to the transfer of the ISA and I will look at the role 
that Elevate had in this process.
In their submission to the service, Elevate has said that the initial request to start the transfer 
of the ISA from Company A to Elevate was made by Mr and Mrs Js IFA and that an 
incorrect business name was input for Company A.
Elevate has said that another business name for Company A was input and this meant that 
the process could not initially be completed.Ive looked at what Elevate has said and think that, on balance, this has largely been the 
reason for the delay. I have noted that the time that the transfer request started, this was at 
the start of the Pandemic and continued through lockdown.
I think that some of the delays can be attributed to the way that businesses were working, 
and this resulted in consumers, including Mr and Mrs J experiencing delays.
Turning back to the transfer form that Elevate received on 18 February 2020, I can see that 
they sent this onto Company A on 20 February 2020. Elevate have said that their process is 
to wait 14 days before chasing for an update.
The service cant tell a firm how to run their business operation, but I dont think this 
timeframe is unreasonable in the circumstances. I can see that Elevate were in contact with 
Company A from March through to June when new forms were received.
I can also see that there was an error in the form with the national insurance number 
contained an incorrect digit. This was corrected and the transfer was completed on 16 July 
2020.
In his submission to the service, Mr J has said that someone has dropped the ball and a 
delay of five months is unacceptable. 
I sympathise with Mr J that the transfer took place longer than anticipated but I dont think 
that Elevate can be held responsible for the delay. 
From what I have seen, they were not responsible for the initial transfer request containing a 
different business name to Company A. I can see that they have tried to contact Company A 
at various times and Im not going to ask them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman