DRN-3928005
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected his claim against 
it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
Mr L is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr L bought solar panels for his home in autumn 2014. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Shawbrook, and so that business is liable under the Act for the acts and omissions of 
the installer. Mr L says the installer misled him into believing that the panels would be self-
funding, which they werent. He also says that the failure of the panels to produce as much 
money as estimated amounts to a breach of contract.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that the installer had 
misrepresented the system to Mr L and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC 
did not agree, and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I am minded to uphold this complaint. I will 
explain why.
There are two contracts: the original, dated 29 September 2014, is for 16 panels, and a new 
contract, dated 16 October 2014, is for 13 panels. I will consider both of them. Each 
document is one page long. Each has been signed by Mr L, so I am satisfied that he read 
them when they were given to him.
The original contract gives the cash price of the panels as £6,785. Next to that it gives a 
breakdown of the income the panels will generate and the estimated savings on Mr Ls 
electricity bills, and then gives the total benefit as £894.86. This is described as Total 
Returns Year 1.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mr L could be 
forgiven for overlooking it while just looking at the contract and comparing the price with the 
expected benefits. So for now I will focus on just the cash price as it appears on the contract 
(but I will refer to the interest later on).
Mr L took out a 15-year loan to pay for the panels. I wouldnt expect him to be able to divide 
the amount borrowed, £6,785, by 15 in his head while reading the contract. But even divided 
by only ten, that still comes to £678.50 a year, which is obviously less than the estimated 
benefit in the first year (which as Ive said was £894.86), and that would have been easy for 
him to work out. (In fact, the cash price divided by 15 years is £452.33.) So this contract 
gave the impression that the income and savings from the panels would be more than 
enough to cover the loan payments.
The second contract gives the cash price as £5,989 and the estimated first year benefit as 
£727.07. Again, this also shows that the estimated benefits each year would exceed one 
fifteenth of the cash price (£399.27).
I think that both documents were capable of misleading Mr L into thinking the panels would 
pay for themselves, as while they allowed comparison of the benefits with the cash price, 
they did not show the interest on the loan or the total amount repayable under the loan.
The interest and the total amount repayable did of course appear in the loan agreement, 
along with the amount Mr L would have to repay each month. These figures are set out 
clearly. The total to repay over 15 years was £13,404.50, at £74.47 a month. That comes to 
£893.64 a year, which is almost exactly the same as the benefit figure in the first year as 
shown in the original contract (£894.86). The loan agreement was signed on the same date 
as the original contract, so Mr L had sight of both of them at the same time. So even if he did 
compare the contract with the loan agreement, he would still have seen that the panels were 
expected to make enough money to cover his loan payments (at least when averaged out 
over the year, if not necessarily in each of the winter months).
So I am satisfied that Mr L was told at the point of sale, on 29 September 2014, that the 
panels would be self-funding, even when taking the loan interest into account.
That turned out not to be the case. The MCS certificate, dated 16 October 2014 (which is of 
course for 13 panels rather than 16), says that the 13 panels were expected to generate 
2,862 kWh a year. But by March 2021 they had generated 11,863 kWh, which works out as 
only 1,845 kWh a year, or 64% of the estimate. So there is obviously a problem with the 
panels. They are not performing as they should.
That in itself is not necessarily a misrepresentation. I propose to treat it as a breach of 
contract, in that the panels are not fit for purpose and are not of a satisfactory condition, or 
were not installed with reasonable care and skill. Shawbrook is liable for that.1
Before I deal with the remedy for that breach, I will turn to the variation of the contract a 
couple of weeks later, in October.
If Mr L had compared the loan agreement with the new contract, he would have seen that 
while 16 panels would pay for themselves, 13 panels would not. But I dont think he should 
have been expected to go back and look again at a loan agreement which he had (perhaps) 
already inspected when he signed it, to compare it again with the new contract as varied and 
then realise that the panels would no longer be self-funding after all. I think that the new cost 
and benefit figures should have been set out for him again, before the new contract was 
executed. That wasnt done. So I dont think he would necessarily have realised that the 
panels actually installed would not be self-funding. I therefore think that they were mis-sold.
I cant say that this was definitely a misrepresentation, because the installers representative 
attending in October probably didnt say that the 13 panels would still pay for themselves. 
1 I may however change my mind and decide that there was a misrepresentation after all if it turns out 
that the panels actually have nothing wrong with them and are working properly, because that would 
indicate that their performance was exaggerated.But I am satisfied that when Mr L agreed to the variation, he was still relying on what he had 
been told in September; he was induced into entering the contract by the promise that the 16 
panels would be self-funding; and he would probably not have proceeded with the purchase 
if he had realised that the 13 panels would not be self-funding in that they would not cover 
the loan payments. So I propose to take all of this into account when deciding what is fair 
redress for the breach of contract (rather than as a separate head of damages for 
misrepresentation).
For the above reasons, I am currently minded to uphold this complaint and to require 
Shawbrook to put things right for Mr L in the following manner.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ls complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by making sure that Mr L 
doesnt suffer a financial loss. In my view that would mean that the solar panel system 
should generate roughly what was promised in the original contract, dated 29 September 
2014, which estimated the systems annual performance at 3,523.52 kWh. (The system is 
generating 52% of that.)
So Shawbrook must:  
a) calculate the difference between what the panels have generated as income (through 
the FIT and savings) for Mr L and what the original sales paperwork set out as being 
the annual total income savings, and
b) add simple interest to that amount at the rate of 8% a year, and pay the total to Mr L 
(either directly or via the CMC).
To ensure that Mr L doesnt lose out going forward, Shawbrook must then:
c) calculate the average annual underperformance percentage so far based on a 
generation figure of 3,523.52 kWh a year, and assume that the panels will continue 
to underperform at that rate through to the conclusion of the finance agreement,
d) recalculate the total income savings for each year going forward until the conclusion 
of the finance agreement, having applied the percentage reduction identified in 
paragraph c) above,
e) pay Mr L the difference between the revised amounts calculated in paragraph d) 
above and the total income savings set out in the September 2014 sales 
paperwork.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr L first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I will direct that 
Shawbrook must pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional findings
Mr L accepted my provisional decision. Shawbrook did not respond. So there is no reason 
for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
I will add that Shawbrook must show its working once it has carried out the calculation 
described above.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Shawbrook Bank Limited to put things 
right in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman