DRN-2624948
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt put forward a chargeback request he 
made to recover money transferred via his bank card.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr A opened an account with a financial services company which he 
believed were regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Over the next few 
months, Mr A made several money transfers to this company using his bank card. However, 
when Mr A later tried to withdraw money from the financial services company, he was unable 
to do so.
Mr A contacted the FCA who informed him that the company were not regulated by them 
and who advised Mr A to recover the money by requesting a chargeback through his bank.
Mr A contacted Barclays who took information from Mr A about what had happened. 
Barclays then sent a letter to Mr A requesting some more information. Mr A responded to 
that letter, but Barclays then said that his chargeback request couldnt now be processed 
because it was now outside of the timeframe permitted by the chargeback rules.  Mr A 
wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr As complaint. But they felt that they had been correct in not moving 
forwards with the chargeback request on the basis that time had elapsed, so they didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that Barclays felt that the 
chargeback request had little chance of success, and that a business is not obliged to make 
a request they believe will be unsuccessful. So, they didnt uphold the complaint either.
Mr A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To begin Id like to clarify what a chargeback dispute is. Its a process by which some 
disputes are resolved between the card issuer, in this case Barclays, and merchants, in this 
case the financial services company, under the relevant card scheme rules. 
 
These rules are set by the card provider  in this case Visa - whose symbol is on the card. 
Visa has an agreement with banks and building societies as to how its cards are used, and 
this agreement covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made. The rules are quite 
strict, and Barclays doesn't have the power to change them. 
Its also important to note that a chargeback claim isnt a right that a customer has  its a 
voluntary act, and this means that Barclays werent required to ask Visa for the transactions 
to be reversed via the chargeback scheme - although it is considered good practice for 
Barclays to do so, if they think the chargeback claim is likely to succeed. 
But Barclays didnt think that the chargeback claim was likely to succeed in this instance, 
and so they werent obliged to proceed with the claim. 
I note that Mr A has said that he has learnt that the company in question isnt FCA regulated. 
However, Ive checked the FCA register and can confirm that the company are FCA 
regulated and that the FCA reference number which the company provides on their website 
is correct.
The FCA register does state that there have been instances of this companys website being 
cloned, which means that the potential for scams does exist. But I havent seen evidence 
that thats the case here, and I say this because I have seen email correspondence between 
Mr A and the company in question that appears to be genuine.
So, Im satisfied here that Barclays werent acting unfairly or unreasonably when they 
concluded that the chargeback claim wasnt likely to be successful.
I realise that this will be frustrating for Mr A, especially as Barclays explained to Mr A that 
they werent going ahead with his claim because the timeframe within which to do so had 
expired.
But Barclays have acknowledged that they made an error in communicating this to Mr A, and 
have awarded Mr A £200 compensation because of this. Compensation is a subjective 
issue, and one person might consider an amount reasonable which another person does 
not. But the £200 that Barclays have awarded here feels fair to me, and I must note that this 
is commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances.
It follows then that I feel that a fair outcome has already been reached here, and so I wont 
be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action at this time. I realise 
that this wont be the outcome that Mr A was wanting, but I hope he can understand, based 
on everything I have explained above, why I have made the decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman