DRN-3681182
The complaint
Mr P complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
He says that HSBC didnt do enough to protect him from loss when he became the victim of 
a scam and would like HSBC to pay him back the money he lost as the result.
What happened
Mr P was researching investment opportunities online when he was contacted by a company 
(G  the scammer) which persuaded him to invest in cryptocurrency. He was convinced to 
purchase crypto from B  a legitimate crypto exchange. 
Mr P made three separate payments totalling £20,200 for the purchase of crypto.
He also made payments of £99,890 to his account with R, which also formed part of the 
scam. 
Mr P realised he had become the victim of a scam and complained to HSBC.
HSBC didnt uphold his complaint, so he brought his complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator considered the complaint and thought that it should be upheld. HSBC did 
not agree  it thought that Mr P should be liable for 50% of the loss due to his own 
contributory negligence.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their view, so the complaint was been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
When I reviewed the complaint, I made some changes to the outcome that our Investigator 
reached  one of the payments Mr P appeared to have made was actually made to his other 
account with HSBC, and so didnt form part of the loss.
I also explained that HSBC should bear 50% of the loss for the payments that went to R.
I communicated this to HSBC, but it didnt agree, so I will now make my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
I will deal with the payments made directly from Mr Ps HSBC account to purchase the 
crypto first. 
Was Mr P the victim of a scam?
Having reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied that Mr P was the victim of a scam here. He was 
contacted by a supposedly legitimate business G. At the time, there was no warning on the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys website about G  however this has since been added, and so 
I dont think there is any doubt that G is a scammer.
Ive listed the payments made to purchase crypto directly from Mr Ps HSBC account below.
Date Merchant Payment type Amount
01/06/2021 B Debit card £5,100
08/06/2021 B Faster payment £7,100
16/07/2021 B Debit card £8,000
I understand that Mr B received some funds back from the scammers  a payment of 
£3967.31 and £2,913.77  no doubt to prove legitimacy of the scammer to entice Mr P to 
make further payments.
This leaves Mr P with a total loss of £13,318.92 from this part of the scam.
Recovery of Mr Ps payments
After Mr P made his payments, I wouldnt expect HSBC to do anything further until it was 
notified of the scam. For the payments Mr P made by debit card, there was only one method 
of potential recovery of the payments  instigating a chargeback to the merchant. 
Chargeback is a process by which disputes are resolved between card issuers (in this 
instance HSBC) and the merchant (B).
However, even if a chargeback was attempted, this would likely not have been successful. 
This is because the seller of the crypto, B, was a legitimate crypto exchange and provided 
the services which were requested of it, which was the crypto itself. Therefore, the 
subsequent loss of the crypto to the scammer is a separate matter  and so a successful 
chargeback would unlikely have been possible  so I dont think that these payments were 
recoverable once they had been made.
Similarly, the faster payment Mr P made would likely not have been recoverable as the 
service of providing crypto had been completed.
Should HSBC have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that HSBC reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all of the payments Mr P made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss 
before it happened.
Mr P authorised the scam payments in question here  he was tricked into instructing HSBC 
to make the payments  so I accept that the payments he made were authorised payments 
even though Mr P was the victim of a scam. This means that while Mr P never intended the 
payments to go to the scammers, he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, HSBC should have taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be 
struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This leads me to consider the payments that Mr P has made  and if HSBC should have 
intervened.
HSBC say that as Mr Ps account was a sole-trader, he should not have been making 
personal investments from this account. Had he been doing so from a personal account, the 
payments would have been much more likely to flag. It says the size of the payments were 
not that unusual for a business account, and that Mr Ps turnover was quoted as being 
£159,445.00.
Ive reviewed Mr Ps historic statements in order to determine if the payments he made 
should have triggered a response from HSBC in order to meet its obligations Ive set out 
above. In the 12 months prior to the initial payment Mr P made to B, the highest payment 
Mr P had made was to HMRC for just over £3,000. The next highest payment was for £2,000 
which was made to another account in Mr Ps name. This does not show the high turnover 
that HSBC suggests. 
So I think that the payment of £5,100 was unusual, and shouldve stuck out to HSBC as 
being uncommon considering the pattern that had already been established, especially given 
that by January 2019, HSBC should already have had a good understanding about how 
scams like the one Mr P fell victim to work.
With this in mind, HSBC should reasonably have contacted Mr P to establish whether the 
transaction posed any possibility of placing Mr P in financial harm before processing it. But it 
did not do so. Had HSBC done so, I wouldve expected it to have questioned Mr P about the 
payment he was making  including what he was making the payment for and surrounding 
context and to proceed accordingly. The intention being to disrupt or uncover a potential 
fraud or scam. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr P was coached by the scammers  or told to lie 
about what the payment was for  so I think that had HSBC questioned him I think that it 
would quickly have uncovered that the payment was very likely to have been a scam, and 
given Mr P a warning that he was very likely being scammed. HSBC goes on to say that there is no evidence that a single phone call from it would have 
persuaded Mr P that he was likely to be the victim of a scam and that he would not have 
been persuaded of this until much later.
While it may be that Mr P may not have been persuaded by an intervention from HSBC, it 
didnt actually intervene anyway, so I fail to see how it can conclude that he would not have 
been persuaded it was a scam until a later date.
HSBC was the financial professional here  not Mr P. It had a lot more insight into the 
operation of these kinds of scams than the average consumer. It should know about the use 
of fake trading websites, the pressure to pay more, and the inability to withdraw substantial 
amounts of supposed profits which would be clear indicators that of a scam. Along with the 
fact that crypto isnt traceable, so once it has been sent to someone else it can be stolen. 
These are just some of the common signs HSBC could reasonably have brought to Mr Ps 
attention and Im satisfied a warning from his trusted bank would have likely stopped Mr P 
from sending any further payments. 
So, I think that HSBC couldve prevented the loss that Mr P has suffered from the outset.
Should Mr C bear some responsibility for the loss?
I understand that HSBC thinks that Mr P should bear some of the responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence  it says that this amount should be 50% of the loss he has suffered. 
HSBC says that there were a number of red flags that should have alerted Mr P that he was 
the victim of a scam  and that as someone who invested previously should have realised 
that the behaviour of the scammers was amiss. It also says that Mr P made no specific 
research about the company he was dealing with.
Ive thought about what HSBC has said  but I disagree. Mr P did conduct his own research 
into the company he was dealing with  and at the time, the reviews of G which could be 
found online were good. There was no current warning on the FCA website either. And 
although Mr P may have had previous investment experience, HSBC were the experts here 
 and had more knowledge on the intricacies of these types of scams. 
It follows that I am satisfied no deduction for contributory negligence should be made in this 
case. 
Should HSBC bear some responsibility for the payments made to Mr Ps account with R?
Between 7 December 2021 and 24 Dec 2021, Mr P also made nine payments totalling 
£99,890 to his own account with R. From this account, these funds were also lost to the 
scam.
I think that HSBC should also bear some responsibility for this loss too. This is because had 
HSBC initially intervened as I would have expected, these transfers would never have taken 
place as the scam should have been unravelled from the first payment Mr P made of £5,100. 
While I dont think that R is totally blameless here, I do think that HSBC should bear 50% of 
the responsibility too. 
HSBC should therefore also pay Mr P £49,945.00 for its part in this further loss.
Putting things rightAs Ive explained above, I dont think that Mr P would have made any of the payments in 
question here had HSBC done what it reasonably ought to have done.
Therefore, HSBC should refund Mr P £13,318.92, which is the total loss of the three 
payments made, minus the credits Mr P received from the scammer. HSBC should also 
check to see if Mr P was charged any transaction fees alongside these payments  and if so, 
refund these to Mr P.
HSBC should also pay Mr P £49,945.00 for its part of the further loss. 
This brings the total amount HSBC should pay to Mr P to £63,263.92.
HSBC should also compensate Mr P for the loss of funds. Mr P has provided details of 
another investment in which he says he would have placed the funds he lost to the 
scammer. He already has holdings within this investment. 
HSBC should therefore pay Mr P 5.2% per annum from the date that the payments were 
made, until settlement (less any lawfully deductible tax)  although it may wish to verify the 
investment performance independently before doing so.
I have considered if Mr P should receive any additional award for distress and inconvenience 
 but while I understand that there is an emotional impact in cases like this, ultimately it was 
the scammers that were to blame here, not HSBC. So, Im satisfied the compensation Ive 
set out is fair in this case, and I dont make any additional award.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman