DRN-3175924
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) mis-sold a whole of life (WOL) 
policy and a guaranteed insurability option (GIO). 
What happened
In October 1993, Mr and Mrs P took out a joint life assurance policy (WOL) which included 
life and critical illness cover and an initial sum assured of £30,000. They also took out a 
separate joint Cover Master (also WOL) policy providing life cover only with a sum assured 
of £50,000. The policies were surrendered in 2008. I understand this is because of a change 
of circumstances which meant Mr and Mrs P needed to reduce their expenditure. 
Mr and Mrs Ps representative complained to Phoenix about the WOL policy with critical 
illness and a sum assured of £30,000 (but not the Cover Master policy). They also 
complained about the GIO which was taken out in 1998. It is the sale of these two policies 
that Im asked to consider in this decision.
  
Phoenix responded to the complaint in January 2020. In respect of the WOL policy they said 
that a fixed term assurance plan for a term of 21 years would have been more appropriate. 
This would have ensured that they had cover until Mr Ps retirement age. They offered to 
refund the excess amount of premium above what a term assurance plan would have cost 
(including 8% simple interest but minus basic rate tax and less the surrender value). After 
comparing this with the cost of the WOL plan actually taken out, they calculated that no 
compensation was due. 
In respect of the GIO, Phoenix said that this would not have been sold had a term assurance 
policy been taken out. Therefore, Phoenix offered to refund the premiums paid (plus gross 
interest at 8% simple but minus basic rate tax and the surrender value). 
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept the offer and asked us to investigate. Their representative 
explained the offer wasnt reasonable. The Investigator issued their view explaining why they 
felt a fixed term plan with critical illness cover for a term of 21 years would have been more 
appropriate. She explained why she felt Phoenixs offer was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
 
Mr and Mrs Ps representative didnt agree with the Investigators view. The representative 
said there was no justification for comparing the cost of a fixed term assurance plan with 
critical illness cover over a 21-year term. He said theres no explanation for the length of the 
term other than it being Mr Ps retirement age and it isnt clear that they would have wanted 
cover to stop when it included critical illness cover. He also said Phoenix made this 
assumption even though they originally recommended a WOL plan and the chances of 
suffering a critical illness increase as one gets older. Therefore, the representative said 
Phoenix should refund the premiums deducting only the actual cost of the critical illness 
cover. 
Therefore, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the fact find from 1993 to see what the advisor understood of Mr and Mrs Ps 
personal and financial circumstances at the time. The advisor recorded that Mr and Mrs P 
were married, with young children and self-employed. In respect of their financial 
circumstances, the advisor recorded the income and expenditure, as well as their liabilities.   
Additionally, the advisor recorded Mr and Mrs Ps existing policies. The advisor noted the 
level of cover Mr and Mrs P already had and the amount of cover needed. He found there 
was a shortfall.
I can also see the advisor recorded Mr and Mrs Ps objectives. The top priority noted on the 
form was for provision in the event of death or serious illness. The advisor circled that Mr 
and Mrs P wanted income in the event of illness, injury or death. The agreed priority under 
the summary of advice section was noted to be family protection and critical illness (as well 
as savings).
 
Therefore, Im content the advisor took steps to obtain enough information about Mr and Mrs 
Ps objectives, financial and personal circumstances in order to make a recommendation. 
Taking the circumstances into consideration, Im satisfied there was a need for critical illness 
cover and life cover given the shortfall. I can see from the fact find the advisor recommended 
a Cover Master plan with £50,000 sum assured and a Money Master plan for £30,000 sum 
assured. Phoenix have provided a copy of the application form which shows Mr and Mrs P 
took out the Cover Master policy which was a joint life policy based on first death. As well as 
a living assurance policy with a sum assured of £30,000 which was a joint life and critical 
illness policy based on first death or critical illness. 
I appreciate what Mr and Mrs Ps advisor has said about alternatives. I understand Mr and 
Mrs P cancelled three savings policies so its likely there was some discussion about the 
policies they might have for future planning. Nevertheless, in response to the complaint 
Phoenix felt that a fixed term assurance plan for a term of 21 years would have been more 
appropriate and they compared the cost of this type of policy to the WOL policy (with critical 
illness and sum assured of £30,000). 
I understand what Mr and Mrs Ps representative has said about the length of the term (as 
summarised above). In addition to this, he has referenced other decisions made by other 
Ombudsman at our service in which they found there wasnt sufficient evidence that the 
consumers would have taken out a fixed term assurance plan for a specific term. Those 
Ombudsman had asked the businesses to refund the premiums less the critical illness cover. 
I have considered what hes said carefully, however, its important that I consider the facts of 
this case and take the individual circumstances into account. Having reviewed the fact find, I cant see any note recorded for how long Mr and Mrs P 
needed protection for. However, the advisor did record that Mr P expected and preferred to 
retire at 65. Also, that Mrs P expected and preferred to retire at 60. The form also does show 
they wanted protection for income. As this income would stop when they reached the 
retirement age  Im content there is enough evidence in this case to say that it was 
reasonable for Phoenix to conclude that a fixed term assurance plan with critical illness for a 
term of 21-years would have been a suitable recommendation at the time. Ive already set 
out what the fact find shows about Mr and Mrs Ps need for critical illness cover and Im 
content this element was appropriate. 
Additionally, Phoenix have confirmed the GIO policy was attached to the WOL plan now 
deemed unsuitable. This means that had a fixed term assurance plan been sold in 1993, Mr 
and Mrs P would not have purchased the GIO policy. And I agree with whats been said 
here.
 
Putting things right
Phoenix have shown that Mr and Mrs P havent suffered a financial loss as a result of being 
sold a WOL plan as opposed to a more appropriate fixed term assurance plan. However, 
they wouldnt have needed to purchase the GIO and Phoenix should put Mr and Mrs P in the 
position they would have been had they not taken this out. 
Phoenix offered to put things right in their final response. To confirm, Phoenix should refund 
the cost of each premium, plus interest at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
surrender. They should then deduct the surrender value and add 8% simple interest from the 
date of surrender to the date of settlement.
If Phoenix considers it legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest, it must make 
the appropriate payment to HM Revenue and Customs and send a tax deduction certificate 
to Mr and Mrs P with the compensation payment. Mr and Mrs P can then reclaim any 
overpaid tax from HM Revenue and Customs if they are eligible to do so.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that Phoenix Life Limited should pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs P as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman