DRN-4109296
The complaint
Miss C complains that Bank of Scotland plc did not achieve a fair price when selling  a 
number of properties she had voluntarily surrendered.
What happened
Miss C had four buy-to-let mortgages with Bank of Scotland. Each of the secured properties 
was a leasehold flat in the same building. She also owned a residential property in the 
building.
Miss C had disputes with the freeholder of the building. She said they were applying 
excessive and unreasonable service charges. After unsuccessfully trying to sell the 
properties herself, Miss C voluntarily returned the properties to Bank of Scotland. 
Bank of Scotland eventually sold the properties to the landlord, leaving a significant shortfall 
to repay.
Miss C complains that Bank of Scotland has not treated her fairly once it was in possession 
of the properties:
Bank of Scotland knew about the disputes shed had with the landlord. It had a duty to 
query and investigate that the landlords service charge demands were reasonable and 
legitimate costs.
Bank of Scotland did not check with Miss C what service charges had already been paid. 
And it did not take into account that the settlement it paid included payment towards the 
reserve fund for major work. The bank did not make any enquiries about the reserve 
fund balance or what major works had already been carried out at the properties. 
The service charge demands were for substantial contributions to the reserve fund for 
work that would be undertaken and completed after the landlord had bought the 
properties. Bank of Scotland should not have accepted these costs were legitimate or 
should have negotiated so that those costs were excluded on the basis that the works 
would only be completed after the properties had been sold and would therefore only 
benefit the landlord. 
The landlord was deliberately making service charge demands with the intention to drive 
down the value of the properties, making it impossible to sell to anyone other than the 
landlord, which is what eventually happened.
Bank of Scotland had not acted to obtain the best price possible for the properties. It 
failed to recognise that the landlord would stand to benefit significantly by owning the 
freehold and leaseholds. It should have used this to negotiate on the price. 
By completing the sales during a Covid lockdown it had significantly reduced the market 
value of the properties.
Bank of Scotland had not considered her offers of sale properly. If it had done so, it 
would have received higher sales prices and it would have received those amounts 
about 18 months before it actually sold the properties.
She understood she would remain liable for the mortgages until the properties were sold 
and accepted there would likely be a shortfall. She did not expect Bank of Scotland to 
allow the landlord to manipulate the position so it sold to the landlord at significantly 
under the true value. That is unfair.
Bank of Scotland has refused to disclose any information about the service charge 
demands or sale of the properties.
The service charge demands induced Bank of Scotland to sell to the landlord at under 
market value. The demands were made when the prices of the properties were being 
negotiated and were intended to down value the properties.
The investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld.
Miss C did not accept what the investigator said. She made a number of points, including:
With the knowledge it had, Bank of Scotland ought to have challenged and questioned 
the service charges as it had understood the service charges were being used to drive 
down the prices. The bank would not necessarily have had to start legal proceedings.
She had corresponded with the bank about the landlords conduct. It had failed in its duty 
to achieve the best sales price by failing to question the validity of the service charges as 
it knew they were affecting the saleability and market value.
Thew bank knew the service charges and reserve fund payments were the reasons why 
she had voluntarily surrendered the properties. 
 While the general position might be that the bank did not have a responsibility to 
challenge the service charges of section 20 costs, in view of the information available to 
the bank it should have rung alarm bells and gone beyond its usual procedures.
She did not agree that challenging the landlords costs because any legal action would  
have significant cost implications for the bank and her without guaranteeing a favourable 
outcome.
Once it took possession of the properties, the bank became the legal owner of them. The 
bank was then the leaseholder. Acting reasonably, it should have taken a closer look at 
the service charges and section 20 costs being demanded. It was not possible for Miss C 
to do so as she was no longer the leaseholder. 
The bank did not ask Miss C what the service charge accounts were at the time of 
surrendering the properties. Had it done so it would have realised there was a significant 
amount already paid to the reserve fund, which had not yet been carried out. She 
suspects the further section 20 demand was for works shed already paid for. Had the 
bank investigated this it would have been straightforward for it to challenge and reduce 
the demands without legal action being necessary. It would follow that the bank would be 
able to negotiate better sales prices and reduce the shortfall left on the sale of the 
properties. .
This matter has been left open to abuse by the landlord without any challenge by the 
only person who could challenge it  the bank.Even if legal proceedings were the only option, the potential costs are less than the 
decrease in market value caused by the service charge and section 20 costs. The banks 
own surveyor commented that due to the high service charges the properties were not 
sellable to anyone other than the landlord. This reasoning makes it unjustifiable for the 
bank not to have questioned the demands being made.
The duty to obtain the best price would include a duty to protect the market value of the 
properties and that would include taking legal action, as the only conclusive way for a 
leaseholder to challenge the landlords costs.
The bank sold the properties together with flat 1. The negotiations for the sale and 
purchase to the landlord included flat 1. The bank and its surveyor should therefore have 
been aware of the increased market value of the sale of all of the leaseholds (Miss Cs 
four flats and flat 1) to the freeholder, which she had explained to it. The banks surveyor 
did not take this point into account when advising on the sale prices for the properties. 
This point should be considered again.
She did not agree that a sale to a relative would not have been successful. He had a 
plan to qualify for enfranchisement. And the shortfall would have been significantly lower. 
Had she been made aware of the correct process she would have made an application.
Section 20 costs could have related to works after a sale which would not benefit the 
leaseholder. The bank should have negotiated this out of the purchase price.
The bank negotiated the purchase price to exclude the unchallenged service costs. This 
unfairly reduced the sales prices while giving the landlord the benefit of acquiring all of 
the leaseholds below market value, paying less stamp duty on the transactions.
The bank could have waited to sell the properties on the open market once the Covid 
restrictions were easing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought very carefully about this complaint. I recognise the importance of this matter 
to Miss C and the huge financial impact it has had on her. I appreciate how unsatisfactory 
she has found the conduct of the freeholder  and I can see why she feels they have 
manipulated their position for their advantage. But it doesnt follow that Bank of Scotland has 
made a mistake or not treated her fairly. After considering everything weve been given by 
both sides, overall, I dont consider that Bank of Scotland acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
the circumstances. Ill explain why. 
jurisdiction
For the avoidance of any doubt, I am satisfied that we have jurisdiction to consider the 
complaint. I consider that Miss C met the definition of a micro enterprise at the relevant time 
under our rules. 
what the bank was supposed to do
Bank of Scotland had a duty to achieve the best possible price for a property that might 
reasonably be paid. It should instruct at least two valuations, with one being independent. In some circumstances it might be reasonable for a lender to challenge or query service and 
other charges applied by a freeholder if they were affecting the value of the property. But 
that would only be the case if the lender had good reason to do so. For example, if such 
action could be resolved quickly, with a degree of certainty that the issues could be sorted 
out and that any costs incurred would be recouped by any increased purchase price. 
A lender should also balance getting the best possible price with selling the property quickly. 
It wouldnt be fair for it to accept a low price just to achieve a quick sale. But equally, it 
wouldnt be fair for it to decline reasonable offers in the hope that a better offer will come 
along. What is fair and reasonable will depend very much on the individual circumstances. 
should the bank have challenged and queried the charges?
I accept that Bank of Scotland knew that Miss C was in dispute with the freeholder  and had 
been for some time when she surrendered the properties. I think this is an important point. 
But I dont consider it necessarily helps Miss Cs case.
Miss C had been in dispute with the freeholder for a number of years. The avenues open to 
the bank to dispute the charges applied by the freeholder were the same as those that were 
available to Miss C when she was in possession of the properties. 
Miss C has told us that between 2011/12 and 2017 she spent a lot of time and money in 
legal fees disputing the charges applied by the freeholder. She reached a settlement 
agreement with the freeholder. But she said they breached the agreement and continued to 
claim unreasonable and excessive service charges. She did not have the financial means to 
take the matter to court. 
In the circumstances, it would have been reasonable for Bank of Scotland to consider that 
any challenge to the freeholders charges was likely to be protracted  and even if it was 
successful in challenging the charges levied by the freeholder, it would not necessarily 
prevent new charges being applied. There would also likely be legal costs in pursuing any 
claims (even if it did not go to court/tribunal), the potential to be liable for the freeholders 
costs, and potentially new charges, along with interest and fees being applied until the 
matter was resolved.
So we have a situation where Miss C had made the reasoned decision to surrender the 
properties because the ongoing dispute with the freeholder was costly and difficult to resolve 
 to the extent that it made owning the properties unviable. And despite her best efforts, 
Miss C was unable to sell the properties. It would have been reasonable for the bank to take 
all of that into account. But I think it would be difficult for me to conclude that having done so, 
the only conclusion open to it would be that it ought to challenge the costs being claimed by 
the freeholder. Just because the bank had more resources than Miss C does not mean that 
there was a blank cheque to pursue a dispute against the freeholder.
On the face of it, I can see that a lender  acting reasonably  would start from the position 
that there was long running dispute with the freeholder that was likely to be difficult, slow and 
potentially costly to resolve. And that even if a resolution was obtained to the existing 
charges, it would not necessarily resolve the matter as a whole. 
Overall, I consider it was not an unreasonable decision for Bank of Scotland not to challenge 
the service charges any further than it did. This was an option open to it. But it was far from 
clear that it would result in an improved outcome for both Miss C and/or the bank. So it was 
reasonable for it not to do so.
reserve fundLooking at the evidence the bank had, I cant see it had any reason to consider that the 
section 20 costs were duplicated or not legitimate. It had sufficient detail about the intended 
work to make a decision about whether the costs being claimed were reasonable. Based on 
the information available to it, and the justification given for the costs, it was reasonable for 
the bank to pay the amount claimed by the freeholder.
best price
Bank of Scotland had each of the properties valued by an estate agent and a suitably 
qualified surveyor. It marketed the properties for sale in line with the valuations. But it either 
received no offers or no viable offers for the properties. So in March 2020, it attempted to 
sell the properties at auction  but again it received no offers.
Bank of Scotland said it was going to relist the properties at auction. But it decided to 
withdraw the listing because it was concerned about the impact of Covid 19 on demand for 
the properties and as the freeholder had obtained an injunction against the bank to allow 
access to the properties. So the bank decided to have the properties revalued. This was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
The freeholder made an offer to buy all of the properties. The total sale prices eventually 
agreed were lower (£842,000 in total) that the revaluation amounts (£932,500 for a 90 day 
sale)  but it was within 10% of the estimated value.
This was not a straightforward case for the bank. But I consider it acted reasonably. As Ive 
explained, I  consider it was reasonable for the bank not to challenge the charges applied by 
the freeholder  it was far from clear this would result in a better outcome for Miss C. And it 
took reasonable steps to sell the properties for the best possible price, but balancing that 
against other factors. 
While I understand Miss Cs position that the freeholder manipulated the situation to buy the 
properties at undervalue, Bank of Scotland was concerned with obtaining the best possible 
price. I consider it was reasonable for it to consider that the best outcome was to accept the 
freeholders offer at that point, rather than prolong things any further and potentially expose 
Miss C to further costs. There is no persuasive evidence that there was any other interest in 
the properties. 
I can see that the bank did take into account disruption caused by Covid lockdowns and 
restrictions into account. But it was reasonable for it to sell the properties when it did. There 
was no real evidence that delaying things further would improve the prices achievable for the 
properties. 
Miss C said that the bank failed to take into account that in addition to the four buy-to-let 
properties, it was selling a fifth property in the same block. That meant there was an 
additional advantage to the freeholder in owning all the properties in the block. Miss C said 
the bank had failed to take that into account in its valuations. The difficulty I have here is that 
it is not clear, in the circumstances that would have made any real difference to the value of 
the properties  and we do not have any evidence that it would have.
Bank of Scotland said that the offer from Miss Cs relative was not acceptable because it 
was not sufficient to repay the debts in full, it could not establish if the offer was fair, and it 
had not received any formal offer from the relative. Looking at the evidence we have, I 
consider this was a reasonable decision. It was for Miss Cs relative to make a formal offer of 
they wished. I dont consider that it would be fair for me to say that the bank ought to have 
done more in the circumstances here, where a potential offer was discussed, but with no 
indication it had any prospect of success.Miss C said the bank negotiated the purchase price to exclude the unchallenged service 
costs. This unfairly reduced the sales prices while giving the landlord the benefit of acquiring 
all of the leaseholds below market value, paying less stamp duty on the transactions. I dont 
consider this was unreasonable. The alternative was that the bank paid the service charges, 
which would have been passed on to Miss C in any event. 
disclosure
If Miss C considers that Bank of Scotland has not disclosed all of the information it should 
have, then she would need to take that matter to the Information Commissioners Office. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman