DRN-2895656
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim she made on her employers group 
income protection policy. 
What happened
In August 2018 Miss M submitted a claim on her employers group income protection 
scheme, of which she is a beneficiary. 
Miss M has been absent from work periodically since 2016, following a cancer diagnosis. In 
late 2016 she returned to work but there were further periods of absence over the next few 
years, which were linked to ongoing health problems. 
Miss M experienced a number of ongoing medical issues, and received treatment for them. 
That included respiratory symptoms which are believed to be linked to the cancer treatment 
shed had. In Miss Ms claim form she said that shed been off work since March 2018 and, 
in summary, that she couldnt work due to fatigue and respiratory problems.
Unum declined Miss Ms claim, saying that shed first been absent from work in May 2016 
and therefore their liability for the claim started in November 2016, once the 26 week 
deferred period had expired. They said that Miss M hadnt notified them of the claim within 
90 days of the deferred period, and they were therefore entitled not to consider the claim. 
However, they did consider the claim but noted that their ability to manage it had been 
restricted by the late submission of the claim. 
The claim was declined on the basis that the evidence didnt support that Miss M had 
suffered a medical condition which prevented her from performing the material and 
substantial duties of her occupation. So, Unum didnt think that the policy definition of 
incapacity had been fulfilled. Miss M complained to Unum but they maintained their 
decision to decline the claim, so she made a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Having considered the available evidence, he didnt think it was unreasonable for Unum to 
decline the claim because the medical evidence didnt support that she was unable to work. 
Miss M didnt agree and provided further medical evidence in support of her position. 
However, this didnt change the investigators thoughts about the outcome of the complaint. 
Miss M asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Unum has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
In order to make a successful claim Miss M needs to evidence that she fulfilled the policy 
definition of incapacity. The policy says that the member is incapacitated if Unum is satisfied 
that the member is: 
(a) Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial 
duties of the insured occupation, and is
(b) Not performing any occupation, except as provided under paragraph 5.2 
(proportionate benefit). 
Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint because I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to 
decline the claim. I say that because: 
Miss M first became absent from work in 2016, following diagnosis and treatment for 
cancer. In her claim form she explained that after the cancer treatment she returned 
to work, working part-time but since that time her health has deteriorated. Thats 
supported by the medical evidence and the information from Miss Ms employer 
which suggests that she returned to work towards the end of 2016 but that it was in a 
reduced capacity and there were later further periods of absence related to the 
cancer treatment. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to conclude that 
they should have been notified of the claim in 2016 when Miss M had a significant 
period of absence
I appreciate that Miss Ms health has changed over time since 2016 and that her 
respiratory symptoms have developed since then. But had Unum been notified of the 
claim back in 2016 they would have been able to manage this as part of the claims 
process, including obtaining medical reports and other relevant information about her 
ability to function at work. As a result of the late notification of the claim I dont think 
theyve had a fair opportunity to do so  particularly as the cause of the respiratory 
symptoms seems most likely linked to the cancer treatment, which was the cause of 
the original absence in 2016
Our investigator set out a detailed timeline of the medical history relevant to the 
claim. And Ive also considered all of the evidence and information that Ive been 
provided with, including GP records and reports from various medical professionals 
involved in Miss Ms care. But, taking the evidence as a whole, Im cant fairly 
conclude that the policy definition of incapacity was met during the relevant time. 
Whilst Miss M clearly did experience respiratory symptoms the evidence doesnt 
support that she was unable to work for a prolonged period of time or that she met 
the policy definition of incapacity
In any event, the medical evidence doesnt give a significant insight into the impact 
on Miss Ms ability to do the material and substantial duties of her insured 
occupation. Theres no clear or detailed information about how the condition 
specifically impacted her ability to work. The information from Miss Ms employer 
explains there were limited records kept in relation to Miss Ms absences, in part due 
to the seniority of her position. And, Ive not been provided with other sources of 
information which might offer some independent insight into her ability to work, such 
as occupational health reportsIn response to our investigators opinion Miss M provided a report and a further letter 
from her oncologist in which he set out more detail about Miss Ms condition since 
2016. It sets out more detail about the symptoms, and their impact on Miss M, and 
concludes that it was impossible for her to work. But it doesnt comment specifically 
on how Miss Ms respiratory symptoms prevented her from doing her the specific 
functions of her job during the relevant period of time. So, this hasnt changed my 
thoughts about the overall outcome of the complaint as I dont think it gives any 
further insight into Miss Ms functionality during the relevant time
In reaching my conclusions Ive taken into account whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Unum to consider the claim with an alternative deferred period. 
But, in the circumstances of this case, I dont think this will lead to a fair and 
reasonable outcome given the limitations of the medical evidence which Ive outlined 
above and the lack of information about Miss Ms functionality since 2016. 
My final decision
Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman