DRN-1432942
 
Complaint
Miss F says PDL Finance Limited trading at the time as Mr Lender irresponsibly lent to her. 
Background
This complaint is about two loans Miss F took with Mr Lender. There was a significant break 
of over eighteen months between each loan. Loan 1 was taken out in May 2012 for a sum of 
£200. This loan was deferred on four occasions. Loan 2 was taken out in February 2014, 
over one year after Miss F had repaid Loan 1 for £217. This loan was deferred on one 
occasion. A copy of Miss Fs borrowing history is set out on the table below:
 
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
121/05/2012 18/10/2012 1 £200.00 £260.00
202/02/2014 25/07/2014 1 £217.00 £282.10
 
Miss F says during this period she was in financial difficulty and resorted to payday loans 
which resulted in great stress. She has told us what started as a small amount quickly 
escalated, eventually taking all her pay. She says the figures she gave Mr Lender so it could 
carry out its affordability checks were not completely accurate as she wouldn't have included 
other payday loans. If the correct checks had been done, she would have addressed matters 
earlier than she did.
In its final response, Mr Lender said it would not uphold Miss Fs complaint. It said it carried 
out proportionate checks and it could not ascertain how the loans didn't meet its responsible 
lending criteria. As a gesture of goodwill, it did offer to send Miss F a voucher for the sum of 
£25.
Our adjudicator didn't think it wrong for Mr Lender to provide either loan, but she said that 
Mr Lender shouldn't have given the fourth deferral on Loan 1. 
Mr Lender disagreed with this view. As no agreement has been reached the complaint has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss F 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss F could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss F could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Fs complaint. Ive decided to agree with our 
adjudicator and uphold this matter from when Mr Lender deferred Miss Fs repayment for the 
fourth time on Loan 1. I will explain why.
Firstly, I cant say it was wrong for Mr Lender to give Miss F Loans 1 or 2. As Ive explained 
above there was a significant break in lending when Mr Lender gave Miss F Loan 2. So I think it carried out proportionate checks. From the checks it carried out and from the 
information Miss F gave to Mr Lender, I dont think there was anything to suggest each of 
these loans were unaffordable for Miss F or which might have alerted it to the fact she was 
having problems managing her money.
Each loan was not repaid according to the terms of the original agreements. Looking at Loan 
2 first of all. I think it was fair to rollover Miss Fs Loan 2 on one occasion. This loan was 
taken more than one year and three months after she had repaid her first loan, so I dont 
think its reasonable to expect Mr Lender to have taken Miss Fs previous borrowing history 
from Loan 1 into account. This time Miss F confirmed to Mr Lender that she had a total 
income of around £1,623.27 and that her expenses were around £980. I understand she 
also provided a copy of her payslip to confirm her salary. Miss F informed Mr Lender of 
financial difficulty and Mr Lender then set up a repayment plan and applied a discount of 
£84.63 in relation to additional interest charges due to non- payment. So, Im satisfied that 
for this loan the deferred repayment provided Miss F with the flexibility she needed. So, I 
cant say it was unfair for Mr Lender to have provided this loan or to have deferred the 
repayments.
For Loan 1 Mr Lender deferred Miss Fs repayments a total of four times on 18 June 2012, 
18 July 2012, 17 August 2012 and 19 September 2012. In my view it should have been 
clear to Mr Lender by the time of the fourth and final roll over that Miss F had to continue to 
rollover her loan that she might have been having problems managing her money. 
At the time, I don't think Mr Lender treated Miss F fairly by allowing the loan to rollover for so 
long. It had a duty to treat her positively and sympathetically and I think Miss F was showing 
signs of being in financial difficulty. By the time Miss F had rolled over her loan for the fourth 
time she had repaid more in the fees to Mr Lender for the rollover than she had originally 
borrowed. Mr Lender ought to have been on notice because Miss F wasn't able to reduce 
the capital sum she had borrowed. Instead, she was paying £60 per calendar month to 
service the debt and the fact she couldn't make any headway into the capital is a sign, in my 
view, that she was having difficulties.
Mr Lender should have treated Miss F positively and sympathetically. By prolonging 
repayment of Miss Fs loan for so long I dont think this was a fair way to treat her. Mr Lender 
should have come to an arrangement to repay the outstanding loan balance rather than 
allow Miss F to continually rollover her loan.
Mr Lender has responded by providing a copy of another final decision which it says shows 
that just because Miss F had four rollovers our decisions are not consistent. But this does 
not make a difference to my decision. I think at the time of the fourth rollover to Miss F in this 
case, Mr Lender was more likely aware and had been put on notice about the change in the 
guidelines about the amount of rollover loans it could give. As Mr Lender recognised each 
matter is dealt with on its own merits and in this case, Im satisfied for the reasons set out 
that it should not have made the fourth rollover on Loan 1. 
Putting things right
Mr Lender shouldn't have made the fourth deferral on Loan 1. So, Mr Lender must:
A. Refund the total of the repayments made by Miss F towards interest, fees and charges 
connected with the fourth rollover on Loan 1.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest  on the individual payments made by Miss F which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss F originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.C. Pay Miss F the total of A plus B.
D. Remove any adverse information it has recorded on Miss Fs credit file in relation to the 
fourth deferral on loan 1. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Miss F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Fs complaint. PDL Finance 
Limited should pay Miss F compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman