DRN-3710781
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Lloyds hasnt reimbursed him for money lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
detail here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Mr S was introduced to A through an online acquaintance. He bought cryptocurrency on 
genuine exchanges and sent this on to the firm he believed A worked for to trade with 
between January and February 2021. He had issues withdrawing funds in early February 
2021 and realised that hed been the victim of a scam. He reported the payments to Lloyds 
fraud team. It investigated his case but didnt uphold it or his complaint.
Mr S came to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold his case. He thought Lloyds 
shouldve intervened in Mr Ss payments, but that this wouldnt have prevented the scam. He 
said that the funds couldnt be recovered as Mr S had paid genuine cryptocurrency 
exchanges and then moved the money from here to the scammers.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his case. He provided some 
further information on how he got involved in this scam and why he considered it was a 
genuine opportunity at the time. So the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Our investigator found the second payment Mr S made to the cryptocurrency exchange 
should have prompted an intervention. Im in agreement that this payment ought to have 
been temporarily blocked and Mr S contacted. Its for £6,000, so considerably above his 
day-to-day account spending. There are a few other high payments sent in the months 
prior to this, but not to this value. And this combined with the fact it was going to an 
overseas cryptocurrency firm, means I think Lloyds shouldve spoken to Mr S before 
sending the funds. Mr S has made detailed representations to us on this point, but I am 
in agreement with him about Lloyds duty here. However that doesnt then mean he 
automatically receives his funds back.
The next step is to think about how this conversation wouldve gone. Mr S was 
introduced to A through someone hed met online about six months prior to this payment. 
So he had an ongoing relationship with this person and its clear a level of trust in them. 
They explained their brother worked with A and was also involved in investing. Hes 
explained that A made the investment look realistic with the trading platform he was 
given access to, with both profits and losses being shown. So it seems he was both 
convinced that A was genuine, and that he was investing with a real firm through As 
support.
Lloyds shouldve asked Mr S questions around what he was doing and how hed come 
across this opportunity. But there were no warnings about A/the firm A worked for at the 
time Mr S invested. Mr S was buying cryptocurrency, so not something that required 
regulation in the U.K. And so while I accept Lloyds shouldve advised him to satisfy 
himself the opportunity was genuine and he wasnt the victim of fraud, I think Mr S 
wouldve felt hed already done that. I havent seen that there was anything happening in 
this scam that meant Lloyds shouldve known Mr S was a scam victim, so it didnt need 
to do more than advise him in the way Ive said. And I think that if it had done this, he 
wouldve asked for the payment to still be processed and then gone on to send further 
funds in the way he did. 
I also say this because Mr S acknowledges receiving an online warning when he sent 
the first payment  but has said that these arent taken seriously by people. So he did 
see a warning and seemingly this didnt stop him  or prompt him to look up the firm 
himself. Hes suggested Lloyds couldve searched the firm online for him. But Lloyds 
didnt know who he was investing with, as he sent the money to cryptocurrency 
exchanges first. And this isnt something Lloyds needed to do even if Mr S had told it the 
firm name on a call.
Mr S did go on to send funds to a different cryptocurrency exchange after the second 
payment. But I dont think this pattern of spending was then unusual enough to trigger a 
further intervention by Lloyds. Only the last payment is as high as the 2nd payment above 
and by this time that exchange is a known payee. So I dont think Lloyds needed to 
contact Mr S again about payments to this scam.
 Based on the evidence we hold, Im not satisfied an intervention call wouldve changed 
things in this case, so Lloyds isnt required to refund Mr S any funds.
Ive then considered if theres a way for Mr S to recover any funds. But he paid one 
cryptocurrency exchange through faster payments and the other by debit card. While he 
paid in different ways, neither set of payments has a recovery option for him  such as 
chargeback for the debit card payments, as he did receive the cryptocurrency he paid 
for. He isnt able to recover his funds  nor would this be fair  as the exchanges are 
genuine firms who did provide the services he paid for and arent the ones that scammed 
him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman