DRN-3368406
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a fee-paying Platinum 
packaged bank account in July 2005.
She says that the she was pressured into the account in order to get better rates on 
overdrafts and loans and she says she held the benefits of the account elsewhere.
What happened
Lloyds agreed that the Platinum account had been mis-sold as it believes it wouldve been 
more suitable for it to recommend a cheaper Gold account, as this better suited Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time. 
Lloyds therefore said that Mrs B should be refunded the difference in cost between the two 
accounts plus interest. But when Lloyds calculated how much money Mrs B saved on her 
overdraft facility due to the preferential rates that the Platinum account came it concluded 
that there was no redress due to Mrs B. Lloyds said this as it calculated that Mrs B had 
saved more money from holding the Platinum account than the added cost of having the 
more expensive account.
One of our adjudicators looked into this and they agreed that Lloyds shouldve 
recommended the cheaper Gold account but no redress was due as Mrs B had saved more 
money by holding the Platinum account, than the extra amounts she paid to have it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank account on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mrs Bs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened - based on the evidence that 
I have been provided with. With this in mind, and having considered everything that Mrs B 
and Lloyds have said and provided, I dont think that Lloyds needs to do anything in relation 
to this complaint. I will explain why. 
Firstly Mrs B has said that she did not need any packaged bank account from Lloyds, 
because she already held one with another provider. But my understanding is that this 
provider has already refunded the account fees for that account. In general, our role is to put 
a consumer back into the position that they wouldve been in had things gone correctly. As 
the refund from the other provider essentially means that Mrs B only paid for the one 
account and one set of benefits, then I do not need to consider the issues surrounding the 
benefits of the Lloyds account being duplicated elsewhere, as that has already been 
rectified.
As both Lloyds and Mrs B agree that the Platinum account was mis-sold, I do not need to 
look into the sale itself. Instead I need to look at what detriment, if any, Mrs B suffered. And 
to do this, I need to consider what I think likely wouldve happened, if the sale had been 
carried out correctly.
Firstly, I have considered whether Mrs B wouldve taken out the Gold account had she been 
given a fair choice. Mrs B says that she was pressured into taking out a packaged bank 
account by being told that it would provide her with preferential rates on borrowing. But if this 
is what she was told, then this was correct, as one of the benefits of the packaged bank 
accounts offered by Lloyds was that they came with preferential rates on loans and 
overdrafts, amongst other things. So had everything gone as it shouldve, I think that Mrs B 
would still have taken out a packaged bank account to obtain preferential rates on her future 
borrowing. This is supported by Mrs B increasing her overdraft to £10,000 at the time of the 
sale  and given the size of her overdraft, I think that it was important to Mrs B at the time to 
get the lowest overdraft interest rate that she could.  
I now need to consider whether Lloyds shouldve recommended the Gold account out of the 
range of accounts that it offered.
At the time the Platinum account was taken out, in addition to preferential rates on 
borrowing, the Gold account also included breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and 
worldwide travel insurance, amongst other benefits.
Mrs B has explained that she did travel and did have a mobile phone. And as this account 
was the cheapest account in Lloyds range of packaged accounts that came with these two 
benefits - plus the preferential borrowing rates - had Lloyds recommended this account then 
I dont think that it wouldve been an unsuitable recommendation in the circumstances.
So had everything gone correctly, and Lloyds had also explored the cheaper accounts within 
its range of packaged account. I think that Lloyds wouldve recommended the Gold account 
and Mrs B wouldve taken out the account due to the benefits it came with. But as it turns out 
that Mrs B has ended up paying less than this scenario wouldve cost, due to her receiving 
the overdraft feature that was available on her Platinum account, then I dont think that Mrs B 
has actually lost out from being sold the more expensive account.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman