DRN-3203055
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Trading 212 UK Limited (212) unfairly voided trades in his Contract for 
Differences (CFD) trading account and removed his trading profits. 
What happened
Mr Z opened his CFD trading account with 212 and between November 2019 and March 
2020, he made in excess of £237,000 in profits. He says his account was restricted in March 
2020, so he complained to 212. He was told his trading practices had breached the terms 
and conditions of his CFD account, so they voided his trades and confiscated around 
£198,000 of trading profits earned in March 2020.
He draws attention to clause 9.8 of the Client agreement which he says he has the right to 
withdraw free funds available in his account and in preventing him from withdrawing the 
funds, 212 have breached the terms of the agreement. He says they were not authorised to 
confiscate the funds from his share dealing account and says they failed to act in his best 
interests as required by Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) Rules of the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
He also complains about the way in which 212 handled the complaint and the language 
theyve used in their communications saying he had acted in bad faith. To resolve his 
complaint, he would like his trading profits back as well compensation for the distress he has 
suffered.
212 responded in March 2020 to say, Mr Z had engaged in scalping contrary to the terms 
and conditions of the CFD account, which they considered a major breach of the terms. 
They say this amounted to 1047 trades and in excess of £237,000 in profits and say the 
terms of the account gives them the contractual right to void all trades if they believed they 
had engaged in scalping. They issued a final response letter in April 2020 and didnt uphold 
his complaint, but they did offer to settle by agreeing to write off any claims to the sums 
already paid to him which they say was over £66,000. This was on the condition that he 
agreed to drop any claim for profits which they say were a result of the scalping. This meant 
he was still able to retain any profits he made for trades in November 2019. Mr Z rejected 
the offer and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator said the terms and conditions of the agreement gave them the right to void 
any transactions that were considered to be within the scope of scalping, so, believed they 
had fairly exercised their right to do so. He concluded there was no evidence of wrongdoing 
on 212s part and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr Z didnt agree so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr Z has taken considerable time to explain his position and Id like to reassure 
him that Ive considered everything even though I havent specifically commented on each 
point. Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint and for the same reasons as the 
investigator.
What is scalping?
Ive started my investigation looking at what scalping is and whether 212 define this in their 
agreement. Ive considered, in light of what 212 said, whether theyve acted fairly by 
applying their scalping policy and thereby voiding his trades. 
Clause 20.1 of the client agreement specifically says;
20.1.6. you shall not act in any way other than in the normal course of business, or 
seek to manipulate the relevant financial market and/or the Trading Platform, 
including but not limited by entering into transaction which may qualify as:
20.1.6.2. Scalping
The client agreement specifically defines scalping as speculative type of trading where the 
opening and closing of a position is executed within a very short timeframe (e.g. five minutes 
or less). The definition is clearly defined in the terms and conditions of the client agreement 
which Mr Z agreed he had read and understood when he signed up to the account. These 
terms apply to each trade he places with 212 and the onus is on Mr Z to ensure he has read 
and understood the terms of the agreement prior to agreeing this.
Do the trades in question fall under this definition?
The evidence Ive seen shows the market conditions at that time were volatile and so I 
appreciate Mr Zs point that he was constantly changing his positions. However, 212 have 
provided a complete list of all trades which were made in breach of the client agreement as 
they indicate an excessive volume of scalping transactions and I have to agree with them. I 
think Mr Zs trading activity was in line with the strategy that 212 would consider scalping as 
it appears he was profiting by taking advantage of fluctuations in the market and opening 
and closing positions in quick succession. 
Are 212 permitted to void any trades that fit this definition?
20.2. The confirmations set out in clause 20.1 are made by you on the date of this 
Agreement and are deemed to be repeated on each day this Agreement is in full 
force and effect In case of any breach, We shall have the right to cancel any Order 
made in violation of clause 20.1, to close your Account and to terminate the 
Agreement. In such case, we shall not be held liable for any damages incurred by 
you. 
I appreciate Mr Z feels strongly about this matter and that he considers it unfair for 212 to 
void his trades and consequently not pay him the profit that he made. But, Im satisfied his 
trades were carried out using the strategy of scalping as defined in 212 terms and 
conditions, so, I think it was fair for them to void his trades as they specifically prohibit this 
type of trading and have reserved the right to void these as noted in Clause 20.2 above. 
Mr Z complains that 212 decided to include voiding trades made in November 2019 but no 
action was taken on this until March 2020 when the other positions were voided. Whilst I 
accept his frustration on this point, 212 say it wasnt until his transactions escalated in March 
2020 where he placed 974 trades in one week that their system triggered to flag issues with scalping. This then led to a review of his positions which included his trades in November 
2019. Given the circumstances, I think 212s explanation and the actions that followed this 
are reasonable. 
Mr Z has mentioned that he was not acting in bad faith despite 212s comment on this, but 
continuing to use a method of trading which is not permitted over a prolonged period of time 
in order to make a personal gain in volatile market conditions could be perceived as acting in 
bad faith. Although I appreciate Mr Z feels 212s actions were unfair, particularly with what 
he considers to be loose application of the right to void his trades, the fact remains that he 
used trading practices which they describe as scalping and is not permitted within the terms 
of the client agreement he agreed to so I dont think 212 have acted unfairly by applying their 
scalping policy to void Mr Zs trades. 
I understand that the funds were in Mr Zs share dealing account but as Ive explained 
above, 212 were within their rights to void his trades and the terms and conditions clearly 
explain this. Therefore, its reasonable that he should have known he wouldnt be able to 
retain these profits. Ultimately, it wouldnt be fair for him to have had the benefit of these 
profits by virtue of his unfair trading so I think it was fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances that 212 did confiscate the funds from his account.
Terminating the account
212 have the sole discretion to terminate the account Mr Z holds with them if they consider 
him to be in breach of the terms and conditions of the client account, and this is what they 
have done here. This is a business decision and it not within my remit to tell the business 
who they can and cannot do business with - unless there is evidence that they have been 
unfair or unreasonable in the way that they have operated, which Ive seen no evidence of 
here. 
Communications
Mr Z describes the way 212 communicated with him was using inappropriate language. He 
says they said he engaged in unlawful dealings and bad faith and found them to use 
language to intimidate him. I can see the impact this has had on him and it is clearly an 
emotive issue, but the evidence doesnt show that their communications were intimidating or 
inappropriate. Whether the use of unlawful dealings is correct in this situation or not can be 
questioned, particularly as I can see the impact the communications have had on him, but 
from what I have seen, Im not persuaded the communications were intended to be 
intimidating or to cause him upset, instead I see this as their interpretation of the trading 
practices Mr Z used.
I note Mr Zs comments in relation to the conflict of interest he says across the various 212 
operations in the UK and Bulgaria - I am unable to comment on this as it is outside of the 
remit of this service. I would suggest if he continues to have any concerns in this regard, he 
should raise his concerns with the regulator the Financial Conduct Authority.  
Ultimately, I am not persuaded that any wrongdoing on 212s part has been established so I 
will not be asking them to do anything.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Trading 212 UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman