DRN-2938890
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he was given by Portal Financial Services LLP (PF) to 
transfer his personal pension plans (PP) into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). 
He says PF were negligent in providing this advice as the investments he was advised 
to invest in were too high risk for him.
Mr C says he has lost out financially as a result.
What happened
Mr C said he was called by PF and offered a free pension release review. In September 
2009 PF asked him to provide authority to obtain transfer values from his two PP, both 
with Company P. Mr C also had a deferred defined benefit occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) and similarly PF asked for authority to obtain the transfer value. 
Later in September 2009, Company P informed PF that together, Mr Cs PP were valued 
at around £115,438. Mr C was still making monthly contributions of around £200 gross in 
to his PPs. There was an 1% annual management charge and a 5% bid offer spread on 
contributions made. 
In February 2010, details were provided showing that Mr Cs OPS had a transfer value 
of around £16,000, with a critical yield of 8.5% just to match the level of guaranteed 
benefits in that scheme.
On 24 February 2010 PF carried out a fact find interview with Mr C. It recorded 
the following about his circumstances:
He was co-habiting, 55 years old with no dependants and intending to 
retire at age 65.
He was working in a management capacity earning around £40,000 per annum.
His only retirement provision was his two PPs and his OPS.
He wanted to take maximum tax-free cash (TFC) to put down a deposit on a flat 
and to make some home improvements.
Mr Cs retirement objectives were recorded as: 
To provide a retirement income in the future. 
To take his TFC entitlement immediately. 
To retain a residual fund that was invested until he required an income in 
retirement.
To have a retirement portfolio that was aligned with his current risk and reward 
profile. 
Based on the answers Mr C gave to PFs questions, PF assessed him as having a 
balanced attitude to risk 
Mr C was told PF would charge a 5% initial advice fee calculated on the total transfer 
value. Also, that there would be an annual management charge of 0.45% and annual 
ongoing advice charge of 1% taken from the new plan. 
PF recommended Mr C take TFC immediately from his PP and transfer the balance to a 
plan with Provider S and invest in its managed fund. Mr C accepted PFs advice and the 
two PP plans with Company P were transferred in April 2010 to Company S. Mr C did not 
transfer his OPS which had valuable guarantees.
In August 2010, PF wrote to Mr C and said he needed to review his pension investment 
strategy. The value of the fund had by then fallen by 2.9% to around £83,400. 
PF conducted a review, it recorded his objectives as to maximise your pension at 
retirement within your risk profile and financial situation. It issued a further suitability 
report.
The suitability report went into more detail about Mr Cs risk profile. It said he required 
relatively low short-term security and significantly upside potential. PF said the holdings 
could predominately be in medium risk equity and property investments (around 50%) or 
in a broad selection of UK equities. 30% of the portfolio may be invested in higher risk 
overseas investments with the remainder of the portfolio being invested in fixed interest 
holding, cash and loan backed investments.
PF recommended Mr C now transfer his new pension with Company S to a SIPP. He 
was told the SIPP had an initial setup fee of £200 and an annual administration fee of 
£250. To achieve Mr Cs objectives, PF also recommended once transferred, he invest 
the funds in his SIPP in the following way:
50% Raithwaites Hypa fund;
30% Hypa Asia fund;
10% Koroni fund; and
10% Cash fund
Mr C accepted PFs recommendations and transferred away from Company S into a 
new SIPP. He then invested the money in his SIPP in line with PFs recommendations.
In 2012, PF carried out a review of Mr Cs pension arrangements and concluded that the 
investments remained suitable for him.
Mr C complained to PF in 2019. In summary, he said PF advice in 2010 was 
unsuitable, PF didnt agree, so Mr C referred his complaint to this service.
Save for the money in Mr Cs cash fund in his SIPP, its understood that the other funds show as illiquid with a nominal value of £1.
PF objected to this service considering Mr Cs complaint because it thought it had not 
been brought in time. One of our ombudsmen looked into this and issued a decision 
saying that the complaint had been brought in time and our service could consider the 
merits of it.
Our investigator looked in the merits of Mr Cs complaint. Our investigators view was 
that   Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. This was because the advice he received to 
invest a large proportion of his fund in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes 
(UCIS) was not suitable for his needs. Our investigator didnt think that the initial advice 
Mr C received to transfer his PPs and take TFC was unsuitable. 
Neither Mr C nor PF challenged that part of our investigators view.
PF didnt however accept our investigators view that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld and 
so that matter comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like our investigator, I too consider that this complaint ought properly to be upheld. I will 
explain why.
As our investigator explained, in 2008, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued a 
report entitled quality of advice on pension switching. The report summarised the 
findings of the regulators thematic review of pension switching advice. It gave examples 
of good advice and poor practices found. It mentioned a number of examples of what it 
thought could constitute unsuitable advice. Our investigator highlighted some examples 
of these from the report, in particular:
A pension that did not match the customers attitude to risk and 
personal circumstances.
A pension that was more expensive than a stakeholder pension, but a 
stakeholder pension would have met the customers needs.
A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome 
involved assessing cases where, for example, the reason for the switch was 
for investment flexibility, but this was not likely to be used; the reason was 
fund performance, but there was no evidence the new scheme was likely to be 
better.
Suitability of the advice to take out the plan with Company S
Mr C made it clear to PF that he wanted to access his TFC to put down as a deposit on a 
flat and carry out home improvements. He said he didnt want to take out any further borrowing. The only way Mr C could release his TFC from his pension was to move his 
existing PP plans. It wasnt possible for him to take TFC from his PP and leave the 
remaining funds invested in those plans.  Company S plan allowed Mr C to take TFC 
and to invest the balance for his retirement.
Neither Mr C nor PF have disagreed with our investigators assessment  that the advice to 
transfer to a plan with Company S didnt appear unsuitable, given Mr Cs circumstances and 
objectives. So, I dont need to consider this point further.
Mr Cs ATR
Mr Cs risk profile was assessed as balanced based on his responses to PFs risk 
questionnaire. Like our investigator, I cant see that this assessment of Mr Cs ATR 
was unfair or inappropriate based on the answers he gave. 
Suitability of the advice to transfer into the SIPP and invest in high risk investments
In August 2010, PF reviewed Mr Cs investments. It also reviewed his circumstances 
and recommended he transfer his Company S plan to a SIPP. It noted in the 
suitability report:
the reason I have recommended a pension switch is due to the possibility that the 
benefits available at retirement will exceed the benefits that would have been available 
through your existing provider
I am recommending that you establish a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) . 
funds were not previously available to you as due diligence had not completed at the 
date of your last advice.
So, it seemed that PF may have intended Mr C to transfer into a SIPP in the first place, 
but couldnt make this recommendation originally because the due diligence hadnt been 
completed.
PFs recommendation was for Mr C to invest 90% of his pension fund in UCIS funds. UCIS 
funds are unregulated and therefore are high risk investments. In relation to unregulated 
investments our investigator highlighted the regulators good and poor practice report of 
2010. It recommended restricting unregulated investments to between 3% and 5% of a 
portfolio with ongoing monitoring 
I agree with our investigator, I think PFs recommendation made to invest such a high 
percentage of Mr Cs fund into these high risk investments was unsuitable in his 
circumstances and inconsistent with his balanced ATR. Further, PFs paperwork 
recorded that Mr Cs highest priority was to preserve his pension fund. Given Mr Cs age, 
his initial reason for changing his pension arrangements to access TFC, his objective of 
preserving his fund and his capacity for loss, I dont think if he had been given clearer 
and more suitable advice he wouldve invested in the UCIS in the way he did. I therefore 
think that Mr C has lost out financially as a result of the unsuitable advice that he 
received from PF.The advice to switch to the SIPP meant that it resulted in higher charges than 
Company S plan. I have not seen anything that leads me to conclude that the range of 
funds available for him to invest in, in Company S plan, did not match his balanced 
ATR. I cant therefore see how the advice he was given to transfer into a SIPP was 
suitable, in his circumstances.
Distress and inconvenience
I think the unsuitable advice PF gave Mr C led to some disruption to Mr Cs retirement 
planning. I therefore consider that an award of £350 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused is appropriate in Mr Cs circumstances and is in line with other awards made by this 
service.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr C as close as 
possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable 
advice.
I think Mr C would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Cs circumstances and objectives when he invested. I think if 
provided with clearer and more suitable advice after he had transferred to Company S 
plan, likely he wouldve stayed with that plan rather than moving to a SIPP and investing 
in the UCIS as he did.
To compensate Mr C fairly PF should:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a 
loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair 
value, no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, PF should pay into Mr Cs pension plan, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. PFs payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. PF shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance.
If PF are unable to pay the compensation into Mr Cs pension plan, PF should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Cs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, 
if Mr C would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should 
be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, PF should pay Mr C £350 for the unsuitable advice resulting in the 
disruption of Mr Cs retirement plans.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If PF consider that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how 
much its taken off. PF should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end date)additional
interest
Mr 
Cs
SIPPstill existsCompany S 
Personal 
Pensiondate of 
transferdate of 
settlementnot applicable
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. PF should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as above.
If PF are unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose of calculation. PF may wish to require that Mr C provides an 
undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. PF will need to meet any costs in drawing 
up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to 
keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if PF total all those payments and deduct that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
If Mr C is unable to close his SIPP once compensation has been paid (which may be 
possible if illiquid investments remain), PF should pay an amount into the SIPP 
equivalent to five years worth of the fees (based on the most recent years fees) that 
will be payable on the SIPP.
This is because Mr C would not be in the SIPP but for PFs unsuitable advice. So, it 
would not be fair for him to have to pay fees to keep it open. Five years would allow 
sufficient time for any issues with illiquid investments to be sorted out, and the SIPP to 
be closed
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and order Portal Financial 
Services LLP to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman