DRN-4476519
The complaint
Mr G complained that his claim was unfairly declined by British Gas Insurance Limited 
(British Gas) under his Central Heating Homecare policy.
What happened
Mr G made a claim when he noticed a leak in his cold-water storage tank. Mr G was initially 
told by the call agent the leak would be covered. When the engineer attended, he conferred 
with his manager before informing Mr G that the tank wasnt covered under the policy. British 
Gas offered £30 compensation as way of an apology.
Mr G complained as he said the policy states all repairs to the hot water system are covered. 
British Gas declined the claim. It said the cold-water tank falls under its plumbing and 
drains cover, rather than the policy Mr G holds.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought British Gas had fairly 
declined the claim in line with the policy terms. Mr G disagreed, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked which part of the terms and conditions British Gas referred to when declining 
the claim. It said [The] Central Heating Care Policy (please refer to pages 24/25) does not 
include Cold Water Cylinder TanksAs stated on Page 4 of the terms and conditions 
cylinders that are covered are highlighted as tanks that store hot water. This doesnt include 
cold water storage tanks.
Mr G disagreed with British Gas approach. He said the policy states that all repairs to the 
heat and hot water system are included and he said the cold-water tank wasnt excluded.
Ive reviewed the policy and I think its clear on whats covered and what isnt. This is set out 
succinctly on page 6 of the terms. There is a diagram of what parts of apparatus are covered 
under which type of policy. It shows the cold-water supply tanks as part of the plumbing 
cover and not part of the central heating cover. As Mr G didnt have plumbing cover, I think 
British Gas has been reasonable in declining the claim.
I agree that the central heating policy doesnt have an exclusion for cold water tanks, but I 
dont think it needs to as its clear from page 6 these arent covered. Mr G has interpreted 
the term in the policy heat and hot water system to include cold water tanks. However, I 
think the policy is clear this is not the case. I think page 6 demonstrates this and I havent 
noted any inconsistencies in the definitions of the policy or other terms.
Therefore, as I think British Gas has applied the terms of the policy correctly, I dont uphold 
the complaint. It has apologised for its initial mistake by its call agent and paid £30 
compensation for the distress this caused. I think this is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman