DRN-1676062
 
The complaint
Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2000 in one of the bank's 
branches. The policy was taken out at the same time as Mr B applied for the credit card. It 
gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint, Ill explain why.
Mr B says he did not ask for, and was at no time made aware that he was being sold, any 
product by Barclays. He asks if the PPI could have been included in some transfer document 
he wasn't aware of when he was managing his father's estate in 2000, or if it could have 
been triggered by his change in employment contract in 1999. He says he hasn't made 
monthly repayments on a credit card since the 1960s.
But Barclays has provided the credit card application form Mr B signed and this shows he 
applied for the credit card in a bank branch. And he indicated that he wanted to add PPI by 
ticking the 'yes' box on the form. There was nothing on the form that I think could reasonably 
have led Mr B to believe the PPI was mandatory. Barclays has also provided a copy 
statement that shows Mr B used, and made repayments to, the credit card account. Overall, 
I think Barclays made Mr B aware the PPI was optional, and he chose to take it. I can 
understand he might not recall applying for the account and selecting PPI as the sale was so 
long ago.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr B so it needed to check if it was suitable for him. 
Based on what I've seen of his circumstances at the time I think it was. Mr B told us he was 
entitled to six months' full pay and six months' half pay if he was sick. But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 months. It would have also 
given him up to 12 months' redundancy cover. Overall, I think the PPI would have been 
useful for Mr B if he was sick or lost his job.
I agree its possible the information Barclays gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr B chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So, I think it unlikely Mr B wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think he would still 
have taken out the policy.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:
- Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr B, that was 
unfair.
- To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman