DRN-3337726
Complaint
Mr G has complained that DTW Associates Limited (trading as Auto Advance) provided 
him with an unaffordable loan. 
Background
Auto Advance provided Mr G with a loan for £5,000.00 in April 2016. The loan had an APR 
of 176.42% and a 36-month term. This meant that the total amount to repay, which included 
interest of £10,350.04 was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of around £430. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Auto Advance shouldnt 
have provided this loan as it ought to have realised it was unaffordable. 
Auto Advance disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Gs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Gs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Auto Advance complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr G would be able to repay his loan without experiencing difficulty or suffering 
significant adverse consequences?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr G wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Auto Advance act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Auto Advance complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr G 
would be able to repay his loans without experiencing difficulty or suffering significant 
adverse consequences?
Auto Advance provided these loans while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Auto Advance to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Gs ability to make the 
repayments under these agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Auto Advance had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr G. In practice this 
meant that Auto Advance had to ensure that making the payments to the loans wouldnt 
cause Mr G undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Auto Advance to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr G. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Auto Advances checks reasonable and proportionate?
Auto Advance says carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr G prior to 
providing him with his loan. This information was validated against an electronic cross 
referencing of Mr Gs income declaration and bank statements which Mr G provided. 
So bearing in mind Auto Advance says and has evidenced that it obtained a significant 
amount of information on Mr Gs circumstances, Im prepared to accept that it did carry out 
proportionate checks  at least in terms of the information requested  before providing this 
loan to Mr G.Did Auto Advance make fair lending decisions?
It isnt enough for a lender to simply request information from a consumer before deciding to
lend to them. So even if a lender may have requested a proportionate amount of information,
it may still be the case that it will not have acted fairly and reasonably towards that consumer
if it didnt carry out a fair and reasonable evaluation of the information it obtained.
I say this because a lender is required to carry out an assessment of the borrowers ability to
repay any credit advanced. And any assessment requires an evaluation, judgement,
appraisal and scrutiny of any information obtained. Auto Advance says its assessment of the 
information obtained led it to conclude that Mr Gs loan was affordable for him as hed be 
able to sustainably make his repayments.
Auto Advance was required to establish whether Mr G could make his loan repayments 
without borrowing further or experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just 
whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided in light of this. Having done so, its worth 
noting that Auto Advances manual underwriting notes suggested that the monthly loan 
repayments would be taking Mr G right to the limit of his disposable income. Auto Advances 
underwriting also only included payments of £10 a month to Mr Gs credit card too and it 
didnt factor in that Mr G was incurring returned item fees as a result of returned item fees 
(which in itself was an indication of a potential inability to meet his existing commitments out 
of his disposable income). 
Finally, while the expenditure assessment does include payments for food (based on a 
monthly supermarket transaction) it doesnt include anything for clothing or other essential 
expenditure. Bearing in mind this was a three-year commitment, I do think that expenditure 
of this type ought to have been catered for when the amount of disposable income was as 
close as it was to the monthly payment for the loan. I think that all of these omissions are key 
here. 
In my view, while Auto Advance believed that the monthly payments were pounds and pence 
affordable for Mr G, I think the information available as well as the omissions suggested     
Mr G was always unlikely to be able to make the payments he was being asked to commit to 
without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse consequences. Indeed the fact that 
Mr G did go on to miss, or make late, payments is no surprise to me.
Bearing this in mind, and what exactly it was Auto Advance was required to consider, Im 
satisfied that Auto Advances decision to provide this loan to Mr G wasnt fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Did Auto Advance act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr G in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that Auto Advance acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr G in some other 
way. So I dont think Auto Advance acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr G in some 
other way.
Did Mr G lose out as a result of Auto Advance unfairly providing him with his loan?
As Mr G paid a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Auto Advance did wrong.So I think that Auto Advance needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Auto Advance needs to do to put things right for Mr G
Having thought about everything, Auto Advance should put things right for Mr G by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr G paid on his loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Mr G to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file as a result of this 
loan;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Auto Advance to take off tax from this interest. Auto 
Advance must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for 
one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. DTW Associates Limited 
needs to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman