DRN-3446942
Complaint
Miss P is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) closed her account and then registered 
a fraud prevention marker against her.
Background
In June 2018, Miss Ps current account received a payment of £12,300.00 into her account. 
These funds were immediately transferred on to various third-parties through seven different 
account transfers. 
HSBC subsequently received notification from the third-party bank, responsible for sending 
the payment to Miss Ps account, stating that the funds were fraudulent. As a result of this 
notification, HSBC reviewed Miss Ps account and its investigation led it to decide to close 
the account and record a fraud prevention marker.
Miss P was unhappy and complained. HSBC looked at Miss Ps complaint and didnt uphold 
it. As Miss P remained dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ps concerns. She didnt think that HSBC had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss P unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss P disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that HSBC has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss P is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that HSBC must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss Ps account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
HSBC also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss P was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Miss P allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Ps complaint, I need to decide whether I think HSBC had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Ps account and that her actions suggest 
she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that HSBC did have 
enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss Ps 
account in June 2021, were fraudulently obtained. So the only matter which remains in 
dispute here is whether Miss P was complicit in allowing her account to receive these 
illegitimate payments. 
When initially questioned about the matter by HSBC, Miss P said the funds were paid into 
her account, by her step-brother, for a family holiday to Croatia and the £5,000.00 transfer 
which she made was for rent. After she complained to HSBC, in February 2021. Miss P then 
provided airline tickets for flights to Turkey in 2019 to support her position.
Upon discussing the matter with our adjudicator, Miss P said that a friend from university 
called her in the middle of the night and asked for a favour. He asked to pay in funds to her 
account, which he had the details for, so that she could distribute them. She didnt think 
anything of it as she thought she was just helping a friend. Finally, Miss P said that she fell 
out with this friend over this money and no longer speaks to him.
Ive thought about what Miss P has said. But, in truth, given the inconsistent versions of 
events shes provided throughout the course of the investigation, its difficult to know what 
happened or for me to place much weight on what Miss P now says. Id also add that even 
allowing for the fact Miss P she spoke to HSBC shortly afterwards and she might have taken 
advice from a friend, this doesnt explain why she decided to supply details of flights some 
time afterwards, which are from the incorrect time-period and to the incorrect destination, in 
an attempt to back up what she initially said. 
Furthermore, I also find it difficult to accept that Miss P reasonably believed she was merely 
helping a friend who was desperate, when what she says indicates she believed he had an 
account and therefore could quite easily have simply transferred the funds himself. Im also 
mindful that the dates and times of the transfers dont support Miss P having immediately 
transferred these funds because she was woken in the middle of the night and shes not 
provided anything at all to support her most recent account of what happened either.
Im afraid the inconsistency in Miss Ps versions of events, her recent version being 
implausible as well as it not being supported by the available evidence, means that I cant 
reasonably conclude she was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely 
than not she was complicit in her account receiving fraudulent funds. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that HSBC did have sufficient evidence to show 
that fraudulent funds entered Miss Ps account. And it was also reasonably entitled to 
conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss P was complicit in this. As this is the case, 
I dont think that it was unfair for HSBC to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Miss Ps account. The terms and conditions of Miss Ps account 
permitted HSBC to close it where she was accessing or using an account, service or money illegally or fraudulently (or have done this in the past) or she was allowing someone else to 
do this. 
Ive already explained why I think HSBC was reasonably entitled to conclude that Miss Ps 
account had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in 
recording the fraud prevention marker. As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much 
the same reasons, the terms and conditions permitted HSBC to close Miss Ps account. 
So overall I dont think that HSBC acted unfairly towards Miss P and Im not upholding this 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss P  especially in light of the 
ongoing impact shes said the fraud marker is having on her. But even taking into account 
Miss Ps age at the time and the impact she says the marker is having on her, I cant ignore 
the fact that the available evidence shows its more likely than she was complicit in 
fraudulent activity. I therefore hope Miss P will understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Furthermore, Miss P might find that shes able to open an account with another bank as long 
as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent. And this may well resolve the matter she is having in terms of accessing the 
funds which remained in her HSBC account when it was closed. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman