DRN-3508084
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Experian Limited didnt update her credit records to reflect up to date
information.
What happened
I previously issued a provisional decision on this case. Thats because it was my intention to 
come to a different outcome to our Investigator. I wanted to give both parties the chance to 
respond before I issued my final decision on the matter.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision. 
In December 2020, Mrs H changed the name of her property from W to F. Mrs H says
she updated this with the postal service and her council, and she received confirmation in
February 2021 that this change had also been updated on the electoral register.
Mrs H says she then waited 6-8 weeks before checking her credit file to ensure the
information was showing correctly. However, she says when she checked her credit file with
Experian, she wasnt showing as being on the electoral register at F.
Mrs H says that she has sent Experian evidence to show that she is on the electoral register
at F, however Experian stated that the information it was reporting matched the data it had
received regarding where Mrs H was registered , and so it wouldnt update the information
being reported about her.
Mrs H says that Experian refusing to update the information was impacting her credit score
and her financial position. She says that she had planned to re-mortgage her property,
however, was turned down by a lender that uses Experian for checking credit information.
Mrs H adds that she was accepted by a lender who uses a different credit reference agency.
Mrs H says that she has had to delay re-mortgaging the property until her credit rating with
Experian improves  because the current mortgage rates that are available to her are more
expensive because of her credit score.
Mrs H says that this situation has taken her a lot of time to try and resolve - and it has been
very distressing.
To put things right, Mrs H would like Experian to apologise for the months of distress, time
and effort that shes had to put into resolving the issue. Admit liability for poor data handling.
Explain the full process for purchasing electoral roll data. And compensate her for the time,
phone calls and the distress the situation has caused her.
Our Investigator looked into things for Mrs H but they didnt uphold her complaint. They
found that Experian had based the information being reported on the information it received
from the third party. And they didnt think that Experian could be held responsible for Mrs H
not being able to re-mortgage her property.
Mrs H didnt agree with our Investigator and requested that an Ombudsman look into her
case. Because of this, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I intend to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
I dont think the fact that Mrs H changed the name of her property from W to F is in dispute
here. What is in dispute though is that Mrs H says Experian hadnt updated its information to
show that she was on the electoral register at F. Experian say that it did have Mrs H showing
as on the electoral register.
Experian has sent me information to show that Mrs Hs credit report from 14 June 2021
shows her on the electoral register, but this was for her old address at W. It says that this
information matched the information it had been sent by electoral register office.
In April 2021, Mrs H notified Experian that the electoral register now shows her address as
F, and she provided Experian with evidence to support this. It was at his point that Experian
ought to have been aware that the information it had been reporting about her was incorrect.
However, in Experians response to Mrs H on 20 April 2021, it appears to have
misunderstood the issue.
While Experian say the information, it was reporting matched information received from the
electoral register, it could have written to the electoral register office to confirm what Mrs H
was saying. Experian did eventually contact the electoral register office on 21 June 2021 
more than two months after Mrs H had first raised the issue and after she had been in
contact with Experian on a number of occasions. The electoral register office confirmed that
Mrs H was registered at F  and so Experian changed the information it as reporting about
her.
While I appreciate that Experian has an obligation to report accurate information it receives
from third party businesses, at the point in which Mrs H disputed what was being reported 
along with evidence to support this, Experian should have been more proactive in contacting
the electoral register office. Had it queried the information sooner, this could have avoided
the distress, upset and inconvenience Mrs H had to go through in continually contacting
Experian to attempt to get the information updated.
Experian has sent this service information to show what it was reporting about Mrs H on 24
June 2021  this showed that Mrs H was on the electoral register at F. So Im satisfied that
at this point, the information being reported about Mrs H was correct.
I appreciate that Mrs H has sent this service information from July 2021 to show that she
wasnt showing as being on the electoral register again, but this appears to be down to a
separate issue with the name of her village changing. This isnt something that Experian has
investigated and didnt form part of Mrs Hs original complaint to this service and so I havent
considered this point further.
Given that, at present, Im satisfied Experian should and could have done more to verify the
information it was reporting about Mrs H sooner, I now need to decide what Experian needs
to do to put things right.Based on what I know generally about credit scoring, alongside information on Experians
own website, its possible Mrs Hs credit score would have been negatively impacted by the
incorrect information it was reporting about her. So, its now for me to decide, what impact
this had on Mrs H, if any.
Its probably worth noting here that a credit scoring number is used as an indication or guide
to help a customer understand how other parties might view their creditworthiness. This
score is only visible to that customer and cant be accessed by third party businesses.
Mrs H says that the information Experian were reporting about her has impacted her ability
to be able to obtain a re-mortgage at a competitive rate. I have seen a letter from Mrs Hs
prospective lender which says that her application was declined  but it doesnt provide any
specific reasons for why it was declined. I appreciate that Mrs H has told this service that
she was told this was to do with the information about her address on file, but unfortunately,
she hasnt been able to provide any evidence to support this. There are many factors that
lenders will take into account when making a lending decision  and I cant say with any
certainty that the lender would have agreed to the re-mortgage if the information being
reported about her was correct. So, I cant fairly say that Experian are responsible for Mrs H
not being able to get the re-mortgage product she wanted.
But I do think Mrs H has been put through unnecessary distress and inconvenience as a
result of Experian not being proactive. I can understand, given the situation with her 
remortgage. why she would feel particularly keen to get this issue resolved and I can see 
that she has spent time and effort contacting Experian in an attempt to put things right. I
currently think that Experian should pay Mrs H £100 to compensate her for this.
Experian responded to my provisional decision to say it accepted my findings  and that it 
would issue Mrs H a cheque for £100 upon her acceptance of the final decision.
Mrs H responded to say that while she agreed with the decision on the whole, she wanted to 
make a number of points, all of which I have noted, however I have summarised the main 
issues below:
By the time she complained to Experian about the incorrect data showing on her 
credit report, Experian should already have been aware that what it was reporting 
was incorrect.
Experian reporting wrong information affected her ability to be able to get a mortgage 
 especially because she wouldnt be able to pass identity checks because of the 
incorrect information showing about her. Although she adds that she understands 
that she cant provide evidence to demonstrate that the incorrect information 
resulted in her not being able to obtain a mortgage. 
Mrs H believes that Experian should pay more than £100 and an apology for the 
distress this situation has caused her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, it is still my decision to uphold Mrs Hs complaint  for 
much of the same reasons as stated in my provisional decision. 
I note that Mrs Hs information was already showing as incorrect at the point in which she complained  and I know that she has evidence which proves this. I would have expected 
Experian to do more to change this as soon as Mrs H had made it aware that what it was 
reporting was incorrect, and so this is the point that I think Experian could and should have 
done more for Mrs H. 
I agree its possible that the information Experian reported about Mrs H could have impacted 
her ability to get a mortgage. But there are so many factors that a lender will consider when 
making a decision to lend, that it would be very difficult, without evidence, to say that this 
was soley down to what Experian were reporting. So, while I can understand Mrs Hs 
frustrations here, I dont have enough evidence to say that Experian caused Mrs H not to be 
able to get a mortgage.
I can understand the distress Mrs H has been through in trying to change the information 
being reported about her. I can see that shes had to do more than she should have needed 
to in order to get the information changed  and this was taken into account when I came to 
the award for distress and inconvenience. Based on everything I had seen on file, it was and 
still is my view that £100 is a fair way to settle this complaint. 
Putting things right
Experian needs to compensate Mrs H by paying her £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
it caused her in not updating her information in a timely manner.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. I now order Experian Limited to 
put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman