DRN-3125834
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the service he received when trying to transfer funds to his 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) with Metro Bank PLC. 
 
What happened
Mr C wished to transfer funds to his ISA before the end of the tax year. He started to 
make transfers on 1 April but experienced issues with his first transfers not being 
received into his ISA. He then had to spend a considerable amount of time on telephone 
calls with Metro Bank over the bank holiday weekend trying to understand where his 
money was and why it hadnt been successfully transferred as well as transferring further 
funds. 
Mr Cs funds were transferred a few days later and interest back dated to ensure no 
financial loss and so the underlying issue was resolved. But Mr C wants to be 
compensated for the time he spent dealing with the issue and the distress he was 
caused by not knowing where his funds were.
Mr C complained to Metro Bank about the issues he had experienced. 
Metro Bank said that Mr C attempted to make payments from his savings account after 
usual bank hours on the four day bank holiday weekend. It says because of this the 
payments were rejected as the relevant department wasnt available to authorise the 
payments. It didnt accept this was a fault and said it was in line with usual banking 
practice. It noted it had ensured that all interest was backdated to ensure Mr C didnt 
suffer any financial loss. It offered a £10 gesture of goodwill which Mr C declined.
Mr C didnt think Metro Bank had done enough to resolve his complaint and brought his 
complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld and 
recommended that Mr C be paid £150 compensation.
Metro Bank doesnt agree. It says that Mr C didnt suffer any financial loss and thought 
£150 compensation was excessive.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should be upheld for these reasons: 
Mr C expected his payments to be made within around two hours based on his 
previous experience of transferring to his ISA. When this didnt happen, he was 
concerned about his payments going missing.
Mr C made several telephone calls to Metro Bank (and had to contact the sending 
bank) to try to locate his payments. I have listened to the calls with Metro Bank and 
while the Metro Bank staff tried to assist Mr C, he wasnt given a clear explanation as 
to what had happened to his money. He was told on the earlier calls that there was 
no reason why the payments wouldnt have been received but that no record of them 
was found. This would have caused Mr C concern as he knew the payments had left 
his sending bank account. Mr C was asked to contact the sending bank which he did 
and provided further information, but this still didnt resolve the issue. 
Mr C spent around two days not knowing where his money was. He was then told 
there may be an issue with the amount of funds being transferred. The funds were 
then returned to the sending bank which was not what Mr C had previously been told 
would happen. Overall, because Mr C didnt received a clear explanation about what 
had happened to his money he had to spend time and incur the stress of making 
several calls to try to understand the situation. 
Metro Bank has said that Mr Cs ISA needed to be re-activated which was why the 
funds werent accepted. However, Mr C has said he was able to make transfers of 
smaller amounts (below the annual limit) which doesnt seem to correlate with 
account needing reactivation. This information also wasnt told to Mr C on the calls 
and so he wasnt aware there was an issue and so had to keep taking steps to try to 
understand what was happening to his money. That said, I appreciate that the 
payments were being made out of hours and so it the relevant teams werent 
available to take the actions that were later identified.
Given the time Mr C had to spend resolving the issue of his transferred funds, including 
contacting another bank, and the distress he was caused by thinking his money had gone 
missing I agree that compensation is required. After the final response letter, Metro Bank 
revised its offer of compensation to £75, however, given the time Mr C spent on calls and the 
upset he was caused, I do not think in this case this is enough. I appreciate Mr C feels an 
amount of around £300 is reasonable, but I note that Metro Bank did take action to resolve 
the issues within a few days and it then ensured Mr C didnt suffer any financial loss. 
Therefore, in this case, I think the £150 recommended by our investigator is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mr Cs 
complaint, Metro Bank PLC should pay Mr C £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman