DRN-2080200
The complaint
Ms A isnt happy that Assicurazioni Generali SpA (AGS) decided to stop paying the benefit 
she was originally receiving from her employers group income protection policy.
What happened
Ms A made a successful claim on her employers group income protection policy. Since 
2010 shes received a benefit under the policy. In line with the policy terms the claim was 
initially assessed and reviewed on the basis that she was too unwell to do her own 
occupation. In line with the policy terms, in 2012, Ms A was assessed on the basis that she 
was too unwell to do her own job and or any other suited occupation, based on her training, 
qualifications and experience. The payment of the benefit was regularly reviewed by AGS.
In 2018 Ms A was asked for information as part of the claims review process. In 2019 AGS 
decided to stop paying the benefit because they said Ms A hadnt declared all the relevant 
information about her training and qualifications on the documentation. In particular, they 
referred to evidence that Ms A had undertaken a new qualification and that shed been 
working in a new industry. Ms A appealed against the decision but AGS stood by their 
decision to stop paying the claim. 
Ms A says that shed told AGS about her plans to retrain as early as 2012. She said it was 
innocent mistake and was linked to her medical condition which affects her concentration 
and memory.
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold Ms As complaint. She was 
satisfied that it was reasonable for AGS to reject the claim based on the policy terms and 
Ms As failure to tell AGS about her qualification. The investigator noted the evidence 
presented by AGS which included two websites referring to Ms As qualification and which 
suggested she had been carrying out work. 
Ms A didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review her complaint. She says that she 
made a genuine mistake and explained that, as well as her own medical conditions, shed 
been dealing with a number of very difficult personal circumstances involving her marriage 
and the health of her close family members. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the information Ms A has provided I can see that shes had a very difficult period 
of time, both in terms of her own health and her wider personal circumstances. I dont doubt 
that shes had a very challenging time and I have a lot of empathy with her position. My role 
is to decide whether AGS have acted fairly when deciding to stop paying her benefit under 
the policy.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AGS has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. In this case, AGS 
accepted Ms As claim. So its for AGS to demonstrate that their decision to stop paying the 
claim was reasonable. 
The policy terms and conditions define incapacity as:
The total incapacity of a Member by reason of injury or illness from following the 
material and substantial duties of his own occupation and that the Member is no 
following any other occupation.
After 2 years this will be restricted to the total incapacity of a member by reason of 
injury or illness from following the material and substantial duties of his own 
occupation and any other occupation for which he is suited by reason of education, 
training or experience, and that the Member is not following any other occupation. 
The policy terms also place a responsibility on the policyholder, and its members, to ensure 
that they dont misrepresent, exaggerate or fail to disclose important information. It says: 
If, at any time, the Policyholder, Employer or Member, or any agent or intermediary 
acting on their behalf, should breach the above terms, fail to disclose, exaggerate or 
misrepresent any information relevant to the operation of the scheme and the risk 
insured (including, but not limited to underwriting and claims information), the 
Company shall have the right to terminate the membership of that Member to which 
the information  relates, amend the terms applicable to that member, and/or decline 
or cease to pay the benefit in respect of any claim for that Member 
I dont think it was unreasonable for AGS to stop paying the benefit to Ms A. I say that 
because:
Ms A did mention to AGS that she was considering her career options, including 
exploring retraining in 2012. She told our service that she started the course in 2012 
and finished it in 2015. But Ive seen no compelling evidence that Ms A told AGS she 
was completing a lengthy training course or that shed qualified in it. I think thats 
important information which she ought to have shared with them
In 2018 Ms A was asked about her training, education and experience in a 
questionairre. She didnt include the information about the qualification then either. 
Given the duration of the course, and that she received a nationally recognised 
qulaification at the end of it, I think she ought to have included it. I bear in mind that 
at that point AGS was considering her ability to do any suitable occupation rather 
than her own occupation as the definition of incapacity had changed
Ms A says that she didnt work or apply her new qualifications and simply created 
one of the profiles at the end of her qualification, but never practiced. She told us the 
profile on the other website was created at the request of a friend to whom she gave 
some general guidance. Hes provided a statement confirming Ms As version of 
events. But the information on the websites doesnt support what Ms A told AGS. 
For example, details about her hourly rate and the appointment options are included 
on one site. And, on the other website, Ms A refers to having been qualified since 
2016 and referred to her being able to offer various skills to help others. So I dont 
think it was unreasonable for AGS to rely on this information when deciding to stop 
paying the benefit
As Ive outlined above the policy terms enable AGS to stop paying benefit if Ms A 
didnt close important information to them. I think Ms A had a long period of time in which to update AGS about her training and qualification. There was then a further 
opportunity for to share this in the 2018 review. AGS had been, since 2012, looking 
at Ms As suitability to carry out any occupation suitable by reason of her education, 
training and experience. So I dont think it was unreasonable for them to cease 
payment of Ms As claim following her failure to disclose this information to them. 
Ive taken into account everything Ms Y has said about her health and personal 
circumstances. I also understand that not receiving an income from the policy has had a 
significant impact on her financial situation. However, having taken into account all of the 
available evidence, I dont think AGS has acted unreasonably in the circumstances of her 
case.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman