The complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2000 when she 
applied for a credit card on a postal application form.
What happened
Mrs H complained to this Service. Our adjudicator thought the claim shouldn't be upheld. 
Mrs H disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
She added  through her representative  that she received sick pay from her employer, she 
had savings and her parents would have made her credit card repayments if she needed it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mrs H so Ill explain why.
Barclays says Mrs H applied for the credit card and PPI on a postal application form. I can 
see from the copy of the original postal application form that Mrs H signed a box to say she 
wanted the Payment Protection Plan. If she didnt want to take out PPI then she could have 
left the box clear. So I think its likely Mrs H knew she had a choice about taking out PPI and 
signed the box because she wanted it. I can reasonably assume she saw and read the form 
at the time she signed it. So as she had a clear choice on the form, I think the PPI was 
shown to be an optional product.
Both Barclays and Mrs H agree the sale was non-advised. For non-advised sales, Barclays 
didnt recommend the policy to Mrs H, it just gave her information about PPI. But the 
information needed to be clear, fair and not misleading so that she could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI. 
Barclays told us it didnt have the original policy booklet or leaflets which may have 
accompanied the form  but that isnt surprising because the sale is quite old. Its likely Mrs 
H wouldve received some documents with the application form that would have given her 
the key features of the PPI policy - like the benefits and the cost. But its possible Barclays 
didnt do things properly when making sure the information provided on the policy was good 
enough.
DRN-1110051That being said even if Barclays did give all the information Mrs H needed to make an 
informed choice, I think it more likely she would have taken the policy because at the time of 
the sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
I dont think shed have been caught by any of the main things not covered by the
policy (the exclusions) which could have made it difficult to make a successful claim.
So I dont think that more detailed information about the exclusions would have put
her off from buying PPI.
Mrs H would get only three months full pay followed by three months half pay if she
had been on sick leave. I think the PPI could have lasted for longer than her
employee benefits if she made a successful claim.
She said she had some savings but I think there may have been a benefit in having
the PPI to protect her repayments  leaving her savings intact for other more
pressing uses.
Mrs H said she couldve relied on her parents to make her repayments. I have seen
her father's letter and I do understand the point shes making. But it's possible she
may not have always been able to rely on this help at some unknown point in the
future. So I think the PPI would have still been of some benefit to her.
I dont know how Barclays explained the PPI cost and benefits to Mrs H. But theres
nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for her in 2000. So I dont think that
more detailed information would have put her off from buying PPI.
I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs H
on the PPI. I think she chose to have it because she wanted it. And I think shed still
have taken out the PPI policy as it was probably of benefit to her.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was shown as optional. And I think the 
information was probably clear enough for her to make an informed decision. So Im not 
going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman