DRN-1872991
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a personal loan 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mr D took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the loan in 2003. The loan was for 
£1,000. Mr D borrowed an extra £227.79 to pay for the PPI which was added to the loan 
upfront.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Canada Square disagrees with the adjudicators view 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr D says he was told that the PPI was part of the loan and that he had to have it. Looking 
at the credit agreement, I can see the insurance is described as optional. There was also a 
separate insurance application form that set out the different types of available insurance. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr D would have known he had a choice 
about taking out the PPI. It seems to me that he decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt 
have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Canada Square needed to provide Mr D with enough information for him to be able to make 
an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him. The full cost of the 
policy would have been an important consideration. However, I am not persuaded that 
Canada Square made it clear how much the policy cost in total.
As this was a single premium policy with the premium of £227.79 being added to the loan at 
the start, the premium attracted interest throughout the 24 month term of the loan. The credit 
agreement only shows the combined cost of the insurances that Mr D had purchased (he 
had bought two other policies, giving a total premium cost with the PPI of £310.29). There is 
no mention of the individual premium cost for the PPI, the interest amount or the total cost.
The premium of £227.79 is set out on the insurance application form. But that document also 
fails to highlight the interest that the PPI premium would attract or the total cost of the policy.
Mr D was entitled to expect all of the important information about the cost of the policy to be 
clearly set out. Overall, I dont think that Mr D would have bought the policy if hed been 
made properly aware of how much it was going to cost him. It follows that I uphold the 
complaint.fair compensation
Mr D borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it should have been and 
Mr D paid more than he should have each month. So Mr D needs to get back the extra hes 
paid.
Therefore, Canada Square should:
 
Work out and pay Mr D the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he would have paid without PPI.  
 
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr D paid from when he paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
 
If Mr D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Canada Square to take off tax from this interest. Canada 
Square must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and require Canada Square Operations 
Limited to pay compensation as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman