DRN-3667447
The complaint
Mr O has complained about Link Financial Outsourcing Limited reporting a default on his 
credit file.
What happened
This complaint surrounds an overdraft debt that the original lender defaulted in early 2020 
and then sold to Link soon after.
Mr O disputes the debt. He raised a number of points about what the original lender did. He 
has also complained about Link reporting the default on his credit file, which he feels has 
been duplicated.
Our investigator looked into things independently. They explained that Mr Os points about 
what the original lender did needed to be looked at in his complaint against the original 
lender, and we couldnt hold Link responsible for those things. They explained that Link were 
reporting the default correctly.
Mr O asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand Mr O has gone through a truly tough time more generally, and so he has 
my sympathy. Im grateful that hes been candid and open with us about what happened.
I should explain that in this decision about Link, I can only consider things that Link did.
Mr O raised a number of points about the original lender. For example, hes raised disputes 
about the way the original lender created his overdraft balance, about the overdraft facility 
the original lender set up, about the original lender closing his account, and about the 
original lender defaulting the account. But those are all things that the original lender did, not 
Link. They happened before Link ever got involved. I cannot usually hold Link responsible for 
things the original lender did. I can see that Mr O has a separate case against the original 
lender  and thats the appropriate place for those points to be looked at. I cant fairly 
consider them here.
I can consider Mr Os points about what Link are reporting on his credit file. But having 
looked at the credit file entries, it looks like Link are reporting things correctly.
Link bought the debt in good faith, and as far as they knew there was no dispute about its 
validity at that point. Since the original lender sold the debt to Link, Link are now responsible 
for reporting it on Mr Os credit file. And since the original lender had already defaulted the 
account before selling it, it was correct for Link to continue reporting that same default.
To clarify, it is correct that Link and the original lender have two separate entries on Mr Os 
credit file, because they are two separate companies. I can see that the original lender 
marked Mr Os default as satisfied from the point it was sold to Link, then Link only reported 
it from that point on. This is normal. Lenders will be able to see that Links entry is just a 
continuation of the same default the original lender registered  it is not a duplicate default.
Mr O has said he will only pay the debt if Link remove the default. But Link are required to 
report things correctly on Mr Os credit file  and this is a defaulted account. At the moment, 
neither our service nor the original lender have yet found that the default should be removed. 
So as things stand, Link are free to reject Mr Os offer and continue reporting the default.
Of course, if the original lender or our service do find that the default was wrong, then I hope 
I can reassure Mr O that Link will then need to remove it. But that matter will need to be 
considered in the case against the original lender, and not Link  since it was the original 
lender who defaulted the account, and not Link.
As things stand now, I cant see that Link have got anything substantially wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint against Link Financial 
Outsourcing Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman