DRN-3733966
The complaint
Mr D and Ms T complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt fully settled a travel disruption
claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D and Ms T have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with their bank.
The detailed circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont set
them out in detail here. In summary though, Mr D and Ms T were abroad in a country Ill call
U. They were due to fly back to the UK on 29 January 2021. However, due to the Covid-19
pandemic, the UK closed its borders to travellers from U on the day theyd arranged to
return. So their airline cancelled the flight.
Mr D contacted AXA to make a claim. He told AXA that the airline had rescheduled the
return flight for 4 February 2021. It seems a flight was booked from U to a country Ill call F.
Mr D and Ms T went on to make arrangements with another airline to fly from F back on to
the UK. But Fs government had imposed restrictions on UK travellers. So they couldnt take
this flight either.
On that basis, Mr D and Ms T flew to a country Ill call R. They managed to arrange a flight to
a country Ill call S on 14 February 2021 and from there, they intended to fly back to the UK.
But their outbound flight from R was delayed and so they missed their onward flight to the
UK from S.
Mr D and Ms T returned to R. As theyd have needed to quarantine in a government hotel for
10 days upon their return to the UK at their own cost, they chose to instead quarantine in R.
They were ultimately able to return to the UK on 24 February 2021 and they made a claim
on their policy for the costs theyd incurred.
AXA partly settled Mr D and Ms Ts claim under the travel disruption section of the policy. It
settled the cost of Mr D and Ms Ts return flight from R to the UK, together with their excess
baggage costs. It also paid them delay benefit up to the policy limit. But it didnt agree to pay
for Mr D and Ms Ts accommodation costs, as it said theyd chosen to remain in R instead of
returning to the UK. And it didnt agree to cover the cost of the flight from F to the UK,
because it said the travel restrictions which applied to UK travellers had already been known
when Mr D and Ms T booked it.
Mr D and Ms T were unhappy with AXAs settlement and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr D and Ms Ts complaint should be partly upheld. She thought itd
been fair for AXA to decline to pay for the flight from F to the UK and for AXA to decline to
cover Mr D and Ms Ts accommodation costs after theyd opted to return to R following their
missed flight from S to the UK. But she didnt think AXA had fairly assessed Mr D and Ms Ts
accommodation costs prior to 14 February 2021. So she recommended that subject to Mr D
and Ms T demonstrating that the earliest they couldve returned to the UK was 14 February
2021, AXA ought to consider their hotel costs claim up to that date.
I issued a provisional decision on 31 August 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be partly upheld. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they shouldnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr D and Ms Ts policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether AXA
has handled their claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr D and Ms
Ts contract with AXA. AXA considered the claim under section 13  Travel Disruption. This
says:
On the way home
We will pay You up to: £5,000 for Your reasonable additional travel (including up to £200 for
taxis and hire cars) and accommodation costs which are of a similar standard to that of Your
pre-booked travel and accommodation (for example full or half board, all inclusive, bed and
breakfast, self-catering or room only) that You cannot claim back from any other source.
if You have to make alternative arrangements to return to Your Home or stay longer outside
of Your Home Area as a result of:
The Public Transport on which You were booked to travel to Your Home Area including
connections being cancelled or delayed for at least 12 hours, diverted or re-directed after
take-off; or
If the Public Transport on which You were booked to travel to Your Home Area including any
onward connecting flights is cancelled or delayed for at least 12 hours We will pay You £30
for the first 12 hours delay (unless Your Trip is three nights or less when the number of
hours delay is reduced to six hours) and £20 for each full 12 hours delay after that up to a
maximum of £250 providing You return to Your Home Area on the next available suitable
Public Transport (this will help You pay for telephone calls made and meals and
refreshments purchased during the delay).
It's common ground that Mr D and Ms Ts original return flight from U to the UK couldnt go
ahead as planned. So AXA accepted it was liable - under the travel disruption section - for
both travel delay benefit in line with the policy terms and for the cost of Mr D and Ms Ts
actual return flight to the UK. I think this was an appropriate response from AXA, given the
circumstances in which Mr D and Ms T found themselves.
With that said, I dont think that AXA acted unfairly when it declined to cover all of Mr D and
Ms Ts expenses. I appreciate Mr D and Ms T booked a flight from F to the UK to try and
return home as quickly as they could. But at the point the flight was booked, Fs government
had already imposed travel restrictions which meant that Mr D and Ms T would never have
been able to take the flight. These restrictions had been set out on the Foreign,
Commonwealth & Development Office website. The imposition of travel restrictions at short
notice in response to the Covid-19 pandemic was fairly commonplace and had been ongoing
for some months by this time. So I think Mr D and Ms T ought reasonably to have checked
relevant travel advice before booking the flight. And I dont find it would be fair or reasonable
for me to direct AXA to pay for a flight which Mr D and Ms T ought reasonably to have known
they couldnt take when they booked it. This means I think it was fair for AXA to decline to
cover the cost of this flight.
Neither do I think AXA acted unfairly when it concluded that Mr D and Ms Ts flight from S toR wasnt covered. I say that because having considered email information Mr D sent AXA, it
seems the reason the family chose to fly back to R from S was because they didnt feel safe
in S. Whilst I can entirely understand why Mr D and Ms T may have wanted to return to R
rather than remaining in S and trying to board a new flight from there, this simply isnt
something which is covered by the travel disruption section of the policy.
And it isnt clear to me that Mr D and Ms T couldnt have returned to the UK either from S or
R earlier than 24 February 2021. It seems that the reason they chose to remain in R until
their actual return date was to allow them to quarantine in R, rather than having to pay to
quarantine in a UK government mandated hotel as theyd have been required to do. Whilst I
can understand why they may have considered this to be a better and cheaper option, AXA
wouldnt have been liable to pay for the costs of any required UK-based quarantine. Mr D
and Ms T would always have needed to pay to quarantine for the mandatory period. So I
dont think it would be reasonable for me to find that AXA should meet the cost of Mr D and
Ms T choosing to quarantine in R rather than the UK.
However, like the investigator, I dont think AXA has fairly considered the costs of Mr D and
Ms Ts accommodation. Ive looked carefully at AXAs contact notes and I can see that when
Mr D first made the claim, he told AXA that the airline had rescheduled his flight for 4
February 2021. So it seems to me that this was the earliest point at which Mr D and Ms T
could have potentially been able to return to the UK following the cancellation of their flight
on 29 January 2021. That being the case, it seems to me that theyd always have needed to
pay for additional accommodation between 29 January and 4 February 2021  which
appears to be covered by the travel disruption section of the policy. So it isnt clear to me
why AXA hasnt considered this accommodation cost in line with the policy terms. And I
currently intend to direct it to do so for this period.
I havent seen enough evidence though to conclude whether AXA fairly declined to cover the
further accommodation costs between 4 and 14 February 2021. I say that because there
simply isnt enough available evidence to show that Mr D and Ms Ts airline couldnt have
arranged for them to return to the UK between 4 February 2021 and 14 February 2021  the
date of the planned flight from R to the UK via S. If 14 February 2021 was the earliest
available potential return flight, then I think it would be reasonable for AXA to consider Mr D
and Ms Ts accommodation costs up to this date in line with the remaining terms and
conditions of the policy. 
But I agree that given the lack of information, it would be fair for Mr D and Ms T to make 
reasonable attempts to obtain evidence from their airline to show that it couldnt have offered 
any earlier return flight, to allow AXA to consider their accommodation costs further. AXA 
has agreed to this particular recommendation and so its open to Mr D and Ms T to ask for 
information from their airline to demonstrate that 14 February 2021 was the earliest possible 
return date  or to provide evidence of attempts to book other return flights with other airlines 
ahead of this date. Mr D and Ms T should send any such evidence, or evidence of their 
attempts to obtain this information, to AXA for its consideration.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
AXA didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Mr D and Ms T disagreed with my provisional findings and Ive summarised their response. 
They said theyd called the various airlines, which had been unwilling to help them. Theyd 
made every effort to return home  and they provided evidence of their mobile phone call 
costs from the time. They said the policy states that they must get home as quickly as 
possible  and it wasnt pointed out to them during their calls with AXA that home was 
classed as the UK. Theyd spent a full day on the internet and phone when their flight from F was cancelled, looking for a way to get back to the UK. Once their flight from T to S was late, 
they said theyd been told to return to T for a direct flight back to UK. And as theyd 
understood home to be their home in the UK, theyd thought that by staying in T rather than 
quarantining in a hotel in the UK, theyd saved AXA time and costs. They also said theyd 
requested money from their bank and the whole experience had been very distressing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and Ill explain 
why.
Mr D and Ms T have provided further information about their attempts to book a return flight 
home after their original flight was cancelled, together with evidence of their mobile call costs 
at the relevant time. As I set out in my provisional decision, AXA agreed to reconsider Mr D 
and Ms Ts accommodation costs until 14 February 2021 upon the provision of additional 
evidence which showed that this was the earliest date they could obtain a return flight. So Mr 
D and Ms T will need to forward their evidence and the information theyve provided to me to 
AXA for it to consider. This doesnt mean that AXA is bound to pay their accommodation 
costs until this date, and it may be that AXA requires further evidence in order to reassess 
this part of the claim. Based on the evidence provided to it, AXA may decide that these costs 
arent covered. If Mr D and Ms T are unhappy with any further consideration of this part of 
their claim, they may be able to bring a new complaint to us about that issue alone. 
Ive considered Mr D and Ms Ts comments that following their late arrival in S on 14 
February 2021, they were told the best way of returning to the UK was by going back to R. 
However, it doesnt appear that this was the explanation which they initially gave to AXA. Ive 
seen a copy of an email from Mr D which says that he was told the next flight from S to the 
UK was on 15 February 2021, but it was full. However, he also said:
I did not check any later dates as I did not want to spend another night in S as the first night 
we did not feel safe. Also, any flight on or after 15th would have meant we would not get back 
to the UK before the hotel quarantine came into place.
Mr Ds email was sent to AXA around the time of his claim. And so while the airline may 
have suggested that Mr D and Ms T might be better flying back to R before travelling to the 
UK, this more contemporaneous evidence indicates that the main reason they did so was 
because they felt safer in R. This simply isnt covered by the terms of the policy.
It's clear that Mr D and Ms T feel that by remaining abroad, they avoided the costs of 
mandatory quarantine in a UK-hotel and therefore, mitigated AXAs potential losses. 
However, as I set out above, AXA wouldnt have been liable to pay for such costs under the 
terms of its contract with Mr D and Ms T. And it remains the case that I havent seen enough 
evidence to demonstrate that Mr D and Ms T couldnt have arranged to return to the UK 
between 4 and 14 February 2021 and therefore seemingly negated the need to quarantine in 
the UK or remain abroad. By paying for their actual return flight from R to the UK; together 
with their accommodation costs between 29 January and 4 February 2021, I think AXA will 
have met the elements of the claim which have been sufficiently evidenced. And as Ive 
explained, AXAs entitled to reconsider the accommodation costs claim between 4 and 14 
February 2021 based on any additional evidence Mr D and Ms T provide.
Id add too that AXA had no liability or responsibility to provide Mr D and Ms T with any 
upfront cash while they were away. If Mr D and Ms T feel their bank (a wholly separate legal entity to AXA) failed to provide them with assistance they asked for during the relevant 
period, then theyll need to complain about that issue to their bank.
I understand that Mr D and Ms T went through a stressful and worrying time. And I 
sympathise with their position. But I remain satisfied that the fair outcome here is the same 
as the outcome I explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
partly uphold this complaint.
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
- Reconsider Mr D and Ms Ts claim for their accommodation costs between 29     
January 2021 and 4 February 2021, in line with the policy terms and conditions.
- Reconsider Mr D and Ms Ts claim for their accommodation costs between 4 and 14 
February 2021 if Mr D and Ms T can provide evidence that 14 February 2021 was the 
earliest potential date of return to the UK or show that theyve made reasonable 
attempts to obtain such evidence from their airline.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman