DRN-1298067
 
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy because Santander UK Plc didnt pay cashback on her mortgage Direct 
Debit. 
What happened
Mrs S opened a 123 current account with Santander. One of the benefits of the account is 
cashback on certain Direct Debit payments, including Santander mortgage payments. With 
the advisors help, she moved her Direct Debits to the new 123 account.
When she closed her mortgage account, Mrs S noticed she hadnt received cashback on the 
Direct Debit payments. She complained to Santander and asked it to pay her the lost 
cashback. It explained that because she made her mortgage payments from a joint account 
she held with another bank, they didnt qualify for cashback. 
Mrs S felt the advisor shouldve made her aware of that because she wouldve transferred 
the mortgage Direct Debit to her 123 account. As Mrs S opened the account a number of 
years before, Santander couldnt confirm what the advisor discussed with her, although it 
thought the advisor probably did explain what wouldve qualified for cashback. Santander 
said it valued her as its customer and paid £200 as a gesture of goodwill. Santander issued 
its final response on the matter but, as Mrs S disagreed, she brought the matter to us. 
Our investigator thought that Santander hadnt done anything wrong for the following 
reasons:
the terms and conditions state the mortgage payments must come out of the 123 
account to earn cashback;
because the terms and conditions are clear on this, it didnt matter whether the 
advisor specifically mentioned it, and
the account statements detail the cashback payments and what they were for, so it 
was clear that the mortgage payments werent included. 
 
She acknowledged Mrs Ss belief that the mortgage cashback was built into the payments 
because her mortgage was with Santander. However, our investigator thought it was unfair 
to hold the bank responsible for her misunderstanding. As Santander paid Mrs S £200 
anyway, our investigator didnt think it needed to do anything more.
Mrs S didnt agree. She thinks that because she lost out on the greatest benefit of the 
account  cashback on her mortgage payments - its more likely that Santander was at fault. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Although I understand Mrs Ss frustration at finding out she hadnt benefitted fully from her 
123 account, I dont think Santander did anything wrong. Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint and Ill explain why.
When Mrs S opened the 123 account, Santander explained the benefits to her. She says the 
main benefit wouldve been the cashback on her mortgage payments. Mrs S transferred her 
Direct Debits to the 123 account but she didnt include the mortgage payments. It wasnt an 
automatic switching process but the advisor helped her move the Direct Debits. The 123 
account was in her sole name and Mrs S paid her mortgage from a joint account held with 
her husband at a different bank. Although the mortgage was with Santander, the advisor 
wouldnt have been aware of the payments unless Mrs S told them. So, I think it was in Mrs 
Ss own interest to make sure she moved her mortgage Direct Debit.
Mrs S says she transferred the Direct Debits from her joint account to her sole 123 account. 
The joint account included her mortgage payments. Ive thought hard about whether 
Santander shouldve been responsible for making sure Mrs S transferred all Direct Debits 
which would have benefitted her and Ive decided that it shouldnt. Mrs S told Santander 
which Direct Debits to transfer from an account it didnt have direct access to. That account 
was also a joint account so it couldnt have assumed all Direct Debits were to be moved to 
Mrs Ss sole 123 account. 
As Mrs S says cashback on her mortgage payments was the greatest benefit of the account, 
I wouldve expected her to check it was included in the first statement. The statements 
clearly detail what cashback payments Santander made and what for. I acknowledge that 
Mrs S believed an internal process dealt with the mortgage payment and cashback because 
she held both with Santander. However, I think its reasonable to expect her to have checked 
that before the end of the mortgage term.  
Mrs S pays a monthly fee for her 123 account. Santander checks the account to make sure 
the fee isnt more than the value of the account benefits. This is so that customers dont lose 
out, not to identify where customers can make better use of the account. Mrs S thinks it 
shouldve noticed she wasnt getting cashback for her mortgage payments but I dont think 
its reasonable to expect Santander to check all of its accounts in that level of detail.
Mrs S believes she missed out on over £500 in cashback. Santander paid her £200  not 
because it made mistakes but to recognise her value as its customer. Given the points 
above, and my view that it did nothing wrong, I think Santander acted reasonably in making 
the payment which goes some way to recognising Mrs Ss missed opportunity. I dont think it 
needs to do any more to resolve the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman