DRN-3272315
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund the money he lost after falling 
victim to an authorised push payment (APP) investment scam whereby he sent money to 
an account held at HSBC.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary, Mr P fell victim to an investment scam. As part of the scam, Mr P made a 
£20,000 payment on 14 June 2019 from his bank account to an account held at HSBC. 
And on 29 July 2019, Mr P made a further payment of £14,990 from his bank account to 
another Bank whom Ill refer to as Bank 2.
After the scam was revealed, Mr P complained to his bank and also raised concerns about 
HSBC and Bank 2, where the receiving bank accounts were held. 
Mr Ps Bank, HSBC and Bank 2 are signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). 
The CRM Code was implemented to reduce the occurrence of APP scams. It sets out what 
is expected of the Sending Firm when payments are made which includes a consideration 
of whether a customer met their requisite level of care when making the payment. And it also 
sets out the obligations for the Receiving Firm to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt 
of funds from APP scams in order to prevent accounts from being opened, or used, to 
launder the proceeds of APP scams. Where there is a failing by either the Sending Firm or 
Receiving Firm, they may be required to reimburse the customer. And the customer may 
also be required to share some responsibility for the loss if it is determined that they also 
failed to meet their requisite level of care under the CRM Code.
Mr P was reimbursed 50% of his losses from Bank 2 in its capacity as the Receiving Firm. 
And Mr P wasnt reimbursed for any of his losses from either his Bank or HSBC. 
Mr P brought his complaint about his Bank and HSBC to our service. Mr Ps complaint about 
his Bank, as the Sending Firm was looked at under a separate complaint reference. In that 
case, the Investigator considered that it was fair for Mr Ps Bank to decline reimbursing Mr P 
for his losses under the provisions of the CRM Code.
In this case, Mr P says HSBC as the Receiving Firm should share some responsibility for his 
loss as one of its accounts was used fraudulently. Mr P questioned whether HSBC had 
followed its procedures when opening the account or in allowing a large amount of money to 
go into the account and be moved on / withdrawn.
HSBC, under the CRM Code, didnt agree that it was liable for any loss Mr P incurred. It said 
it had a strict account opening process with it completing thorough checks. It explained that 
an investigation into the account would be undertaken but due to data protection laws it 
wouldnt provide any specific details of the account or of the investigation undertaken.
Our Investigator looked into things and didnt recommend that HSBC needed to do anything 
further. She was satisfied HSBC had met the standards required of it under the CRM Code 
and wasnt responsible for Mr Ps losses as it couldnt reasonably have done more to 
prevent Mr Ps loss. She was also satisfied it had responded appropriately to the notification 
of fraud. 
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, to clarify, this decision focuses solely on the actions of HSBC  as the Receiving Firm 
of the account where Mr P made a payment to. Mr Ps complaint about his Bank, as the 
Sending Firm, was reviewed under a separate complaint reference. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but Im not upholding his complaint about HSBC. I know hes 
been the victim of a cruel scam and I dont doubt that these events have had a significant 
impact on him. And I appreciate that Mr P received a 50% refund of his losses from Bank 2 
in its capacity as the Receiving Firm of the payment he made to it  so I can see why he 
thinks HSBC may be liable also. But our service considers each case on its own individual 
circumstances. And is this case I dont believe HSBC has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
its answering of the complaint. Im satisfied HSBC has met its requirements under the 
CRM Code and therefore isnt liable for Mr Ps losses. Ill explain why.
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like HSBC, are required to
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2)
and to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing
of terrorism requirements.
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the
relationship).
And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse 
Code of Practice).
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule.
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that HSBC are a signatory 
of. The relevant considerations for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code sets out the following:
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm
 
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being 
used to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures 
to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. 
Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they 
may be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond 
in a timely manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for 
criminal purposes.
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are 
being, used to receive APP scam funds.
Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving 
Firm, the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures 
set out in the Best Practice Standards.
In considering all of the above, and to determine if HSBC met the standards required of it 
under the CRM Code, I have looked at whether HSBC opened the receiving account 
correctly, whether there was anything in the way the account was being used that should 
have given HSBC any cause for concern and finally; once notified of fraud did it act 
appropriately and in a timely manner. And if I consider there were failings in relation to any of 
the above, I have to consider whether HSBCs acts or omissions fairly resulted in Mr Ps 
loss.  
I would like to point out to Mr P at this point, that while HSBC has provided our service with 
information about the receiving bank account  it has done so in confidence. This is to allow 
us to discharge our investigatory functions and HSBC has provided that which is necessary 
for the determination of this complaint. Due to data protection laws our service cant share 
any information about the beneficiary, the receiving bank account or any investigation and 
action HSBC subsequently took. However I would like to assure Mr P I have thoroughly 
reviewed and considered all the information provided before reaching my decision.Prevention - The account opening process
To help decide whether or not a bank failed to prevent the loss of an APP victim when
opening the beneficiary account, we would generally ask to see evidence that; it correctly
followed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the
named account holder; and did its due diligence when opening the account.
I appreciate Mr P has said he doesnt think HSBC has followed correct procedures as 
accounts were opened and were subsequently used fraudulently. But in the circumstances 
of this complaint, Im satisfied that HSBC carried out checks to verify the identity of the 
named account holder and did its due diligence when opening the beneficiary account. 
There wasnt anything at the time that I think reasonably couldve alerted HSBC that the 
account it was opening would later be used fraudulently. So Im satisfied HSBC has taken 
reasonable steps to prevent the accounts being opened for criminal purposes and it didnt 
miss an opportunity to prevent Mr Ps loss when opening the account.
Detection - Account activity
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the
account. The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts 
which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. This ties in with long standing 
regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies have to monitor their business 
relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving 
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive looked at the account history of the beneficiary account and I cant say there was any 
account activity that I think would reasonably have stood out to HSBC as suspicious or 
significantly outside of what might be expected for accounts of that type. Im also satisfied 
there was no notification of fraud on the account prior to the payment Mr P made into the 
account and no other red flags where it could reasonably be argued that HSBC might have 
had sufficient grounds to suspect fraud and refuse execution of their customers payment 
instructions.
So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied HSBC has demonstrated that it has taken reasonable 
steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. I also 
dont think HSBC ought reasonably to have had concerns where I would have expected it to 
have intervened, so I cant fairly say that it could have prevented Mr Ps loss in this way 
either.
Response to notification of fraud
The Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a 
speedy manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds 
remain for recovery. Here, once notified of the scam, Im satisfied HSBC took the necessary 
actions required of it and did so in a timely manner. Unfortunately, no funds remained in the 
beneficiary account as they had already been moved on / withdrawn from the account. 
So, taking the above into consideration Im satisfied, following notification of APP fraud, 
HSBC responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice Standards. 
And I dont think I can fairly say HSBC didnt do enough to respond to the alleged APP fraud.Overall, while Mr P was the unfortunate victim of a scam, Im satisfied that HSBC met the 
standards required of it under the CRM Code. I also dont think HSBC couldve done 
anything more as the Receiving Firm to have prevented the loss of Mr Ps money. And it 
responded appropriately once notified of the fraud. So, it follows that I dont think they are 
liable to reimburse Mr P for his loss under the CRM Code or otherwise.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman