DRN-4401357
The complaint
Mr S complained that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (Halifax) delayed the transfer of his ISA 
to Halifax. He said the delay caused him to miss out on selling an underperforming 
investment and buying a better-performing investment, and so caused him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr S had a stocks and shares ISA with his previous broker. On 28 July 2021 he applied to 
Halifax to have the holdings in his ISA transferred to another ISA which he already held with 
Halifax.
On 29 July 2021 Halifax sent Mr S a transfer form to complete. After some delay due to 
Halifax not sending a correct return envelope Mr S completed the form on 1 September 2021 
and Halifax received it on 6 September 2021. On the form Mr S selected an in-specie 
transfer, which meant his investment would be transferred to Halifax rather than the 
investment being sold and cash being transferred instead. He later told us that Halifax had 
told him that the time taken for the transfer wouldnt be affected by whether it was in-specie 
or in cash.
On 9 November 2021 Halifax sent an acceptance form to Mr Ss previous broker to accept 
the transfer of his investment. However, Halifax was unable to accept the particular 
investment that Mr S wanted to transfer. So Halifax shouldve said the transfer had to be in 
cash.
After Halifax wrongly sent an acceptance form to Mr Ss previous broker, there followed a 
period of confusion and delay. Ultimately, to facilitate the transfer, Halifax converted Mr Ss 
investment into a different investment and credited it to Mr Ss Halifax account. Mr S said he 
received the transfer on Friday 4 February 2022 and made an order on the same day to sell 
the investment. The sale was completed on Monday 7 February 2022.
In an email to Halifax on 1 December 2021 Mr S said, The main reason that I wanted to 
move this investment to Halifax is to change the type of investment because of the poor  
performance.
In an email to Halifax and his previous broker on 1 February 2022 Mr S said Every day that 
my money is invested incorrectly, I am losing money. And, These delays mean that I did not 
have access to my funds and I also couldnt change my portfolio. And I worked hard to 
make this money! Not having access is absolutely unacceptable. 
In an email to Halifax and his previous broker on 6 February 2022 Mr S said, Next week I 
should be able to reinvest the funds differently as I wanted in August.
On 14 February 2022 Mr S complained to Halifax about its handling of his ISA transfer. 
In March and April 2022 Mr S sold the holdings in his Halifax ISA. Hes said he transferred 
his funds to a different ISA provider because he lost trust in Halifax.
On 30 August 2022 Mr S bought shares in a company I will refer to as A at a price of 158 
USD per share.
Mr Ss complaint
On 13 February 2022 Mr S complained to Halifax. He said errors by Halifax had meant that, 
during the period of delay, he missed out on buying shares in A. He said those shares had 
performed better than his previous investment and so hed missed out on better investment 
growth.
Mr S said hed previously bought shares in A in 2012. And hed sold them in late 2020 to 
reduce his tax liability, with the intention of re-purchasing the shares inside an ISA wrapper. 
He said A had performed very well during the Covid lockdowns and he was confident A was 
low-risk and would perform well in future. He mentioned that hed also purchased small 
amounts of higher-risk shares with amounts of money he could afford to lose.
Mr S also said he was thinking of moving his ISA to a different provider, depending on 
Halifaxs response to his complaint. And he said:
I will also need  time to recover from this unexpected and not pleasant experience 
before I make any further investments or transfers. I will need to get reassurance 
from Halifax that the lessons were learnt and any new transfer from Halifax to a new 
provider will be made quickly (should I decide to move my business elsewhere).
Halifax acknowledged it had made some errors. In particular Halifax acknowledged it had 
failed to supply a correct return envelope when it sent Mr S the transfer form, and it had 
wrongly told his previous broker on 9 November 2021 that it could accept the transfer of his 
investment. And that had caused delay. Halifax apologised and offered Mr S £500 in 
redress.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response. So he referred his complaint to this service.
Our Investigators view
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. She said if Halifax hadnt sent wrong 
information to Mr Ss previous broker on 9 November 2021 then the transfer wouldnt have 
been delayed and Mr S wouldve been able to sell his investment much sooner. She thought 
Mr S wouldve been able to sell on about 13 November 2021 if Halifax hadnt made the error 
it made on 9 November 2021.
The Investigator recommended that to put things right Halifax should not only pay the £500 it 
had offered Mr S. She said Halifax should also pay Mr S any amount he lost on the 
investment he was unable to sell between 13 November 2021 (when he wouldve sold it) and 
7 February 2022 (when he did sell it). And Halifax should pay Mr S 8% simple interest on 
any amount due, covering the period from the date Mr S wouldve sold the shares but for 
Halifaxs error to the date Halifax pays the redress to Mr S.
The Investigator didnt think it was possible to know when and even if Mr S wouldve 
purchased shares in A, if Halifax hadnt made the error it made. She said that in the absence 
of call recordings (which Halifax hasnt provided despite several requests from this service) 
she had no reason to doubt Mr Ss testimony that he did tell Halifax that he wanted to buy 
shares in A once the transfer was done. But she took into account that Mr S didnt actually 
purchase shares in A after the transfer was done. So she didnt think it could be assumed 
that he wouldve purchased shares in A during the period of delay if there had been no delay. The Investigator also noted that Mr S had requested a transfer in-specie which she 
said showed his intention at the outset was retain the investment he had.
Mr S didnt agree with the Investigators view. He said his intention had been and still was to 
invest in A. But there were many reasons for him to delay the investment. In summary, the 
reasons Mr S set out were as follows:
Mr S and his wife were stressed as a result of the error by Halifax and the loss of 
access to funds. This meant: It took a lot of time to unwind and it was hard to move 
on because Halifax refused to take responsibility for their mistakes and I had to fill a 
complaint to the ombudsman in a timely manner and I had a backlog of tasks at work 
because I had to deal with this transfer during my working hours where the relevant 
providers were working. Reinvesting could be done on Mr Ss own time whereas a 
complaint to this service had to be made quickly to ensure evidence could be 
collected.
Mr S had to close his Halifax ISA and move to a different provider, and research an 
ISA provider that could be trusted and would charge minimal fees. 
Mr S had made very clear to Halifax in phone calls that he was losing money each 
day he was unable to access his investment and reinvest his funds in A.
Conditions changed after the transfer was complete. In particular:
I could not foresee that a new international war against Russia would begin after the 
transfer was completed and interest rates would go up so much. I have changed my 
portfolio and included much more savings rather than investments because there I 
can easily get 5% tax free profits with 0 risk. Such situation was not available during 
the transfer.
Despite the above, I did try to obtain [A] stock in several attempts after the transfer, 
the price was quite high considering the high interest at the time hence I put limit 
request orders that were not fulfilled for several months. These attempts were 
genuine but did not end up in a transaction hence I dont have official document 
evidence for these attempts 
In the end I managed to buy [A] by the end of August 2022
Mr S provided evidence that in August 2022 he purchased shares in A in a new ISA that hed 
opened with a different provider (not Halifax). He said:
It took me time to recover from the mess Halifax  put me through. I sold all my 
Halifax ISA investments portfolio because I couldnt trust Halifax. I opened a different 
ISA provider   transferred the Halifax ISA  and learned their investment tools.
I wanted to invest more in [A] stocks but I decided for the time being to reduce the 
total amount of investments, not only [A] stock and increase the ratio of savings. 
This due to the recent higher local interest rates and issues with global markets due 
to the implication of war in Ukraine, recession, inflation, etc.
For the long term, I am planning to buy more [A] stock and double my [A] investment 
once the global markets stabilize.Because no agreement could be reached, this complaint was passed to me to review afresh 
and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Halifax made an error which delayed the transfer of Mr Ss ISA 
holdings to his Halifax ISA. What is in dispute is the impact that had on Mr S and what 
Halifax should do to put things right for him. Mr S says if the transfer hadnt been delayed he 
wouldve invested in A. So, in addition to the redress recommended by our Investigator, he 
wants to be compensated for missing out on an investment in A.
Having considered this, I think the remedy recommended by our Investigator was fair. Ill 
explain why.
I accept that when Mr S initiated the transfer it was his intention to sell the investment he 
held in the ISA from the previous broker. Mr S was consistent in his communications about 
that, including on 1 December 2021 when he said in an email that the investment had 
performed poorly and he wanted to sell it. He made similar statements in later emails during 
the period of delay. And he sold the investment at the first opportunity after the transfer was 
complete.
However, Im not satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, I can conclude that Mr S 
wouldve bought shares in A after the transfer, if the transfer hadnt been delayed. Ill set out 
my reasons for this below.
In emails to Halifax and his previous provider during the transfer delay Mr S described the 
impact the delay was having on him. He mentioned the stress he was feeling and the 
inconvenience he experienced when he repeatedly followed up issues with both providers. 
And he said he was losing money because he was unable to sell the investment that he felt 
was performing poorly. He also mentioned that he was unable to change his portfolio while 
he didnt have access to his ISA holdings. At no time did Mr S mention in these emails that 
he was missing out on being invested in A. He didnt say what plans he had for investing the 
monies elsewhere.
In his complaint to Halifax Mr S mentioned that, during the delay when he had contact with 
Halifax, his written communication had been more considered than his communication by 
phone. He said he was likely to have contradicted himself during phone calls whereas his 
email communications were more considered and more representative of his actual views 
and circumstances. This indicates that a greater weight can be placed on Mr Ss written 
communications than his phone communications during the time of the delay. And I think if 
Mr S hadve been determined to invest in A throughout the period of delay he wouldve 
mentioned in the emails he wrote that described the impact the delay was having on him. So 
I think that even if he mentioned during phone calls to Halifax that he couldve had a better 
investment if hed been able to invest in A  Mr Ss emails tend to show that he wasnt 
determined to invest in A after the transfer.
Mr S has said one reason why he didnt invest in A after the transfer was complete was that 
he needed time to recover from the impact the delay had had on him. I accept that he was 
distressed by the events that had occurred. But I note Mr S was able to submit an order to 
sell his investment on Friday 4 February 2022, the day on which his transfer had finally been 
completed. So Mr S was capable of submitting trade orders on the Halifax platform. And so I 
think if Mr S had been determined to invest the transferred amount in A then he couldve done so on Monday 7 February or soon after  I think this is the case even though I accept 
that Mr S was distressed and inconvenienced by the delay. Whatever the non-financial 
impact was on him, Im not satisfied I can say the delay caused Mr S to be unable to buy 
shares in A in early 2022.
Mr S said that by February 2022 market conditions had changed in such a way that investing 
in A was no longer advisable once the transfer had taken place. The key events Mr S 
referred to were the war between Russian and the Ukraine, and rising interest rates. Having 
considered this Im not persuaded based on this that Mr S wouldve purchased shares in A in 
November 2022 had the delay not occurred. 
I acknowledge that a war, such as the conflict between Russia and the Ukraine, is likely to 
cause disruption to investment markets. So, in the event of war, Id expect some investors 
would reconsider their positions, depending on their investment objectives. But Im not 
persuaded that in this case the war in the Ukraine caused Mr S to change his position in 
February 2022 from being determined to invest in A to deciding not to invest in A at that 
time. Russias invasion of the Ukraine happened on 24 February 2022. Mr S said he couldnt 
have foreseen the war between Russian and the Ukraine  if that is so then he couldve 
invested in A at any time from 7 February 2022 (when he sold his transferred investment) 
until the date of the invasion. Even if Mr S hadve been aware that war was likely, for 
example due media coverage of the build-up, he didnt appear at the time to be influenced 
by that. His email of 6 February 2022 said he would now be able to reinvest the funds 
differently as he wanted in August. I also note that when Mr S did invest in A, in August 
2022, war between Russia and the Ukraine was still continuing. So, overall, its hard to 
conclude that the war was a major factor in Mr Ss investment decision making.
I accept its reasonable for Mr S to change his investment strategy in line with changes in 
interest rates. But Im not persuaded interest rate changes caused him to decide not to 
invest in A after his transfer was complete. The Bank of England base rate rose from 0.1% to 
0.25% in December 2021, and from 0.25% to 0.5% on 3 February 2022, and then to 0.75% 
in March 2022. So rates had recently increased at the time the transfer was completed, and 
they continued to rise. But by the time Mr S bought shares in A, in August 2022, the base 
rate had risen a further three times, to 1.75%. So its difficult to conclude that Mr S wouldve 
invested in A before 7 February 2022 and then changed his mind because of rising interest 
rates.
Mr S cites the price of shares in A as a relevant factor explaining why he didnt buy shares 
immediately after his transfer was done. He said the price was quite high considering the 
high interest at the time hence I put limit request orders that were not fulfilled for several 
months. However, Mr Ss purchase of shares in A was made on 30 August 2022 at a price 
of 158 USD per share. And the price of A was lower than 158 USD during most of June and 
July 2022. In mid-June 2022 the price was 130 USD per share  its lowest point since June 
2021. I understand Mr S might have adjusted his target price according to various factors. 
However, his method of buying shares in A when he did casts further doubt on whether he 
wouldve bought shares in A any earlier than he did if Halifax hadnt delayed his ISA transfer. 
Mr S showed he wanted to enter the market at a price he thought was relatively low  rather 
than simply buy shares in A as soon as possible. So I think that, if Halifax hadnt delayed his 
ISA transfer, Mr S still might not have bought shares in A immediately. And, if he had tried to 
buy shares in A after the transfer, its likely he wouldve placed a limit order which wouldve 
taken some time  possibly months  to be fulfilled. So, on balance Im not persuaded Mr S 
wouldve bought shares in A at an earlier date, even if hed attempted to do so.
I also note that Mr S had the opportunity to mitigate any losses hed suffered while the price 
of A was below the November 2021 price. While I acknowledge changing macroeconomic 
conditions, the real opportunity Mr S was deprived of as a result of Halifaxs actions was the chance to buy A at its price in November 2021. He had the opportunity to mitigate that in the 
summer of 2022 when the price then was lower than in November 2021. So if Mr S had 
suffered a loss due to the difference in price between A shares in November 2021 and 
August 2022, he couldve mitigated that loss by buying the shares in the interim.
In addition to what Mr S told us about his plans for the transferred ISA monies, Ive 
considered his actual investment activity during the period of the delay. The portfolio history 
of Mr Ss Halifax ISA for the period 27 January 2021 to 20 April 2022 shows Mr S bought 
and sold a variety of shares in that time, including after he made his application to transfer 
his ISA. None of the shares Mr S purchased were shares in A. This is despite Mr S saying 
he wanted to increase his holding of A in 2020/21. I understand Mr S will have had reason to 
buy shares other than A during that time  he said he bought small amounts of higher-risk 
shares. And he might have had the transferred funds earmarked for investment in A. But I 
see that Mr S invested some thousands of pounds in diversified funds, including an index 
fund. And the fact he didnt invest any of his other monies in A during the relevant time tends 
to show he wasnt, at that time, particularly determined to invest in A.
I cant say for certain what Mr S wouldve done if Halifax hadnt made the error it made and 
so hadnt delayed his transfer. But I dont need to say for certain. To reach the conclusion 
that Mr S should be compensated for missing out on an investment in A, I need to be 
satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that Mr S was more likely than not to have invested 
in A after the ISA transfer if the transfer hadnt been delayed. Having weighed up the all the 
evidence I cant say its more likely that not that Mr S wouldve invested in A after the 
transfer if it hadnt been delayed.
I dont doubt Mr S had an interest in buying shares in A, before during and after the transfer 
of his ISA to Halifax. But I cant say he wouldve done so immediately after his ISA transfer 
(or at any particular time after that) if it werent for Halifaxs error. Mr Ss intentions are not 
clear enough for me to be satisfied that its what he wouldve done.
It's important to remember that what Im considering is the likely position Mr S wouldve been 
in but for Halifaxs error. Mr Ss testimony that he wanted to buy A shares particularly (as 
opposed to any other investment) is one piece of evidence to help me determine that. 
Overall, given the lack of contemporaneous evidence of his intention to use this particular 
portion of cash to buy these particular shares, his trading of other funds around the relevant 
time and his decision not to reinvest the proceeds of the transfer and sale for some time, 
including when A was trading below its November 2021 price, I find that Mr S hasnt suffered 
a loss of investment gain by failing to be invested in A during the time that Halifax delayed 
his transfer.
So I dont think Halifax caused Mr S to miss out on being invested in A. And it follows that 
Im not persuaded he would have invested the proceeds of this particular fund sale in 
anything else either, until he used it to buy shares in August 2022. Therefore I think the 
redress recommended by our Investigator is enough to put Mr S back in the position he 
wouldve been in but for the mistake by Halifax.
Putting things right
My decision is that to put things right for Mr S Halifax must do the following:
(1) If it hasnt already, pay Mr S £500 for the delay and distress and inconvenience that 
Halifax caused him.
(2) Compare the fund price of the investment Mr S transferred on 13 November 2021 
and 7 February 2022 and pay Mr S any difference. Halifax may deduct the amount of any income Mr S earned in the relevant period from the investment. If there is no 
difference, or if Mr S was better off after he sold the fund on 7 February 2022, then 
Halifax does not need to do anything further.
(3) Add 8% simple interest on any amount thats due to Mr S as a result of the 
calculation at (2) above. This should be calculated from 13 November 2021, the date 
Mr S is likely to have sold the investment he transferred but for Halifaxs error, up 
until the date Halifax pays its settlement to Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is that to resolve Mr Ss complaint Halifax 
Share Dealing Limited must calculate and pay the award set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Lucinda Puls
Ombudsman