DRN-3199147
The complaint
Mr S complains that esure Insurance Limited automatically renewed his motor insurance 
policy when hed told it not to do this. And hes unhappy that it has asked him to repay 
£220.96. He wants it to waive this amount and compensate him for his trouble and stress. 
What happened
esure renewed Mr Ss policy and debited his account for his premium even though hed told 
it he wanted to go elsewhere for his cover. Mr S asked his bank to make a chargeback for 
the premium and esure also refunded him this same amount when he complained. esure 
then asked Mr S to repay the refund, but it reduced this by £150 to acknowledge the upset it 
had caused. But Mr S didnt understand why he had to repay anything. He wanted esure to 
waive the amount and also to pay him compensation. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr S 
had received two refunds, and so he thought it was fair and reasonable for esure to ask him 
to repay one of these. But he thought its offer to reduce this amount by £150 to take into 
account the trouble and upset it had caused was fair and reasonable.
Mr S replied asking for evidence that esure had made the refunds twice. He said esures 
threatening letters had tortured him and he wanted further compensation for the stress 
caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the upset and stress caused by esures mistake. It has agreed that 
it shouldnt have renewed Mr Ss policy and that it shouldnt have then debited his account 
for the premium. When a business makes a mistake, as esure accepts it has done here, we 
expect it to restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider 
the impact the error had on the consumer. 
I can see that Mr S has now refunded esure £220.96 through its debt recovery agency. The 
investigator explained that this was due because hed received two refunds from esure. One 
refund was made by chargeback though his bank. And the other was paid by esure when he 
complained. 
Im satisfied that Mr S was due only one refund. I think esure acted promptly when the error 
was pointed out to restore Mr Ss position. And I think it was fair and reasonable for esure to 
request the second payment back from him as hed been refunded twice. So Im satisfied 
that Mr Ss financial position has been restored. 
Ive looked at the impact the error had on Mr S. I can see that Mr S was upset and confused 
by esures letters. And hes told us that hes been caused stress.
I can see that esure first asked Mr S for a full refund when the chargeback was processed. 
Two weeks later it sent Mr S a letter asking for a payment as the policy had been cancelled. 
Then three days after this, esure sent Mr S its response to his complaint explaining what had 
happened and how to put things right. So I can understand that Mr S was confused.
The recovery process required esure to write to Mr S to ask him to pay the outstanding 
balance for the policy due to the two refunds. I can understand that he found these letters 
threatening. But I think it was fair and reasonable for esure to write to ask for a refund of the 
balance owed and to explain what the next steps could be. From what I can see, esure 
responded promptly to Mr Ss complaint and explained clearly what had gone wrong. And so 
I think this should have reassured Mr S. 
esure waived £150 of the balance owed to acknowledge its error. I think this was fair and 
reasonable. This is because I think it reflects the impact the error had on Mr S and its in 
keeping with our published guidance. So I dont require esure to pay Mr S any further 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman