DRN-3083653
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as M, complains about the way National Westminster Bank 
Plc (NatWest) handled the redemption of its Bounce Back Loan.
Mr N is one of Ms directors and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
M took out a Bounce Back Loan of £50,000 with NatWest in May 2020. No payments were 
due during the first 12 months. Prior to the repayments falling due, M wanted to repay the 
loan. 
Mr N called NatWest and instructed the redemption on 8 April 2021. The bank confirmed that 
this would be processed and that the loan would be settled in 24-48 hours. But it wasnt. 
Mr N called NatWest a few days later, having noticed that the loan hadnt been repaid and 
after receiving a message from the bank advising that repayments would begin in June. But 
the adviser was unable to locate any details of Mr Ns previous conversation with the bank or 
his redemption request. When Mr N called again on 22 April, an adviser talked him through 
the steps to make an online payment to settle the loan and it was successfully redeemed.
Then, despite the loan having been repaid, NatWest took a payment under the standing 
order that had previously been set up to make the loan repayments. A payment of just under 
£900 was taken on 14 June, but was reversed the following day.
When Mr N complained about the service hed received, NatWest accepted that it had 
caused undue stress and frustration for which it apologised and offered £250 compensation. 
Mr N didnt think NatWests offer was sufficient, so he referred the complaint to us and it was 
reviewed by one of our investigators. She agreed that there had been shortcomings in the 
banks service. But she thought that the £250 already offered by NatWest was fair 
compensation for the inconvenience that the company had been caused. Mr N didnt accept 
our investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There was a delay in M being able to repay its loan because of errors on NatWests part  
most notably, that it didnt act on Mr Ns initial instruction despite assuring him that the 
redemption would be processed within 48 hours. Clearly Mr N didnt receive the level of 
service he should have here, nor did he when calling a second time to chase things up and 
the adviser he spoke with was unable to assist.
Mr N says it ended up taking five to six weeks to repay the loan, although from what Ive 
seen it was closer to a fortnight. The banks records  including recordings of calls from Mr 
N  show that his initial enquiry was made on 8 April 2021. The loan was repaid successfully 
on 22 April, 14 days later. Either way, the impact on M was much the same. Mr N had to 
chase the bank up on two further occasions. Mr N has told us that he made three calls to the 
bank before repaying the loan and that is reflected in the records that Ive seen. So he had to 
make two more calls than ought to have been necessary.
After the loan was settled, NatWest made a mistake in collecting a loan repayment. So Mr N 
also had to follow up on this. Thankfully the matter was swiftly rectified, with the payment 
credited back to Ms account the day after it had been taken.
None of these issues caused M any financial loss, as Mr N has confirmed. But clearly it did 
cause the company some inconvenience, as Mr N had to spend more time than ought to 
have been necessary in dealing with these matters and that took him away from running his 
business. Ive also taken into account what Mr N has told us about the time he spent on hold 
while waiting to speak to the bank. 
Ive considered everything Mr N has told us, including the points hes made about the text 
messages and emails he received from NatWest about the loan while trying to repay it (and 
even shortly after he did). None of that correspondence ought to have been necessary as 
the loan shouldve been repaid when Mr N initially contacted the bank, and of course once it 
was settled there was no need for the bank to contact him about it. 
I also recognise that these issues will have caused Mr N some understandable frustration, 
but I can only make an award to M as it is the complainant under our rules. And as M is a 
company, it cant be said to have suffered any emotional distress. So I am only considering 
how the company should be compensated for the inconvenience it was caused by the banks 
errors. Having taken all of the above into account, I think that the £250 already offered by 
NatWest is fair  so thats what Im requiring the bank to pay.
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has already offered to pay £250 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay £250 to M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman