DRN-4241779
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained about the total time their escape of water claim took to be settled. 
They thought the repairs were done to a poor standard under their home insurance policy 
with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). They were unhappy about their living 
arrangements towards the end of the claim and part of the settlement. Mr and Mrs M have 
had some representation during the complaint, but for ease and simplicity, Ill only refer to Mr 
and Mrs M.
What happened
RSA accepted Mr and Mrs Ms claim for damage caused by an escape of water in their 
home. However, they were generally unhappy with how their claim was handled.
Mr and Mrs M were disappointed with delays to their claim. From the time the claim was 
made to all the repair work been completed was around 11 months. Whilst acknowledging 
some of the claim couldve been progressed quicker, RSA said most of the delays were out 
of its control. 
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with the standard of work that was carried out. RSAs 
contractors had to come back more than once to rectify issues with the repairs. There was a 
disagreement over the quality of the replacement flooring put down and the subsequent 
settlement made in relation to it.
Mr and Mrs M were provided alternative accommodation (AA) for around seven weeks whilst 
the repairs were being carried out. However, they felt forced to move back into their own 
home too early as the accommodation they were staying in couldnt be extended. Mr and 
Mrs M said the conditions when they returned home were terrible and they had to live out of 
their conservatory. They said it was the only part of the house they could afford to heat on a 
temporary basis. RSA said it wasnt aware Mr and Mrs M had returned to their own home.
RSA acknowledged the early part of the claim couldve been dealt with swifter and the right 
information couldve been passed on to its specialist contractors earlier. It waived Mr and 
Mrs Ms £250 excess payment. RSA replaced the washing machine its contractors 
damaged. RSA paid £250 as it said its contractors caused some inconvenience and it 
allowed Mr and Mrs M to retain a disturbance allowance of £390 even though theyd moved 
back into their own home. It also paid £60 to reflect laminate flooring had been laid rather 
than engineered oak.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He felt RSA had considered all the 
points that Mr and Mrs M had made and for the mistakes it made. He thought RSA had 
compensated Mr and Mrs M fairly for the inconvenience caused. Mr S and Mrs M disagreed, 
so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I made a provisional decision on this on 5 June 2023. I said:
I see the damage claim was initially reviewed by one contractor. However, RSA realised 
due to the type and scope of the claim that a more specialist contractor would need to be 
appointed. I can see three months passed after the initial incident was reported. RSA 
acknowledged this handover shouldve occurred earlier. 
From the timeline, I can see initial options were provided to Mr and Mrs M in April time. But 
the start of the work wasnt booked in until the end of August. I appreciate RSA said some of 
the delays were out of its control - but the fact AA was offered shows the house was in poor 
condition. So, I think RSA shouldve done more to speed up this timeline, especially given Mr 
and Mrs Ms vulnerable circumstances.
I see Mr and Mrs M were told the work would be completed by the end of September. 
However, as the work was not progressing well, Mr and Mrs M escalated their concerns. 
They said the contractors had only done one day of work in three weeks.
I see further delays were caused as some of the work wasnt up to the necessary standard. I 
think its fair that RSA is allowed to rectify any faults, however, this has naturally led to 
further delays with the delivery of the settlement. So, whilst I appreciate RSAs point of view 
that not every part of the repair was known at the start of the claim, and new repairs 
emerged during the programme, I think the overall timeline of this claim has been too long. 
Given the vulnerability of Mr and Mrs M, I think RSA shouldve done more to accelerate this 
claim. Therefore, I intend to uphold this complaint.
Ive considered what evidence exists to explain what happened with the AA arrangements. I 
see these were available to Mr and Mrs M from the start of the claim. However, they only 
chose to utilise these once the repairs commenced. Mr and Mrs M moved back to their home 
when they could no longer live at the arranged location as it was fully booked up. RSA said it 
wasnt aware theyd moved back home and said if it had been aware it wouldve made sure 
Mr and Mrs M were treated reasonably. 
When Mr and Mrs M returned home they said they were confined to the conservatory due to 
the condition of their house. I know there wasnt much property available in the area as the 
previous search for AA didnt turn up many options. So, I cant be sure the end outcome 
wouldve been different. However, I dont think its reasonable that RSA said it didnt know 
Mr and Mrs M had returned home.
RSAs contractor who was dealing with the AA shouldve been aware the booking was 
coming to an end. It shouldve done more to work on RSAs behalf to ensure Mr and Mrs Ms 
needs were best served. RSA did pay a disturbance payment during the time at home. 
However, I dont think it has managed this part of the claim effectively. I think there couldve 
been opportunities to do manage it better. Therefore, I intend to uphold this aspect of the 
complaint.
In summary, I think there were delays and poor handling evident during this claim  which 
were caused by RSA or its contractors. The handover between contractors couldve been 
quicker, better communication of the process wouldve helped and there were several issues 
with the quality of work which needed rectifying. Also, I dont think RSA managed the AA 
arrangements effectively. 
Mr and Mrs M were awarded £500 in compensation (which included £250 for the waiving of 
the excess). I appreciate Mr and Mrs M feel this isnt enough as RSA is getting a third party 
to contribute part of the money. However, this isnt relevant to my decision. My decision 
needs to assess what I think is fair for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think the 
long-term nature of the distress wouldve been difficult for Mr and Mrs M in their 
circumstances. There is evidence it has been. Living away from home for so long wouldve been impactful on their way of life and wouldve caused significant inconvenience. Their 
move back home wasnt managed well when the AA ceased. Therefore, I intend to award an 
additional £500 compensation (so £1,000 in total). 
Finally, Ive considered the floor settlement. I can see that RSAs contractor originally agreed 
to replace the floor as Mr and Mrs M said it hadnt been fitted square. RSAs contractor said 
this was due to the walls not being square. I think it was reasonable to do this. However, Mr 
and Mrs M were unhappy with the replacement flooring that was eventually laid as they said 
it wasnt engineered oak. They said the flooring laid was laminate. RSA said Mr and Mrs M 
agreed to the flooring been laid. RSA said the flooring was different to what it normally uses 
so it wouldve only used it if it had been selected by Mr and Mrs M. However, RSA did agree 
to pay Mr and Mrs M £60 for the differing cost for engineered oak compared to laminate (or 
the allowance it made for the laminate).
Ive considered this point and I find it hard as the evidence provided by either party isnt 
strong. Therefore, Ive made my decision based on whats available. RSA by paying the 
differential has in essence agreed that Mr and Mrs M were entitled to engineered oak. 
However, it did say Mr and Mrs M had agreed to something different (the laminate). I havent 
seen any evidence to support this agreement  if some exists it may change my mind. 
However, as I havent seen it, I think Mr and Mrs M should be allowed the engineered wood 
floor, so it matches the quality of their previous floor (their entitlement under the policy).
Mr and Mrs M said the differential in cost is £60 per metre and they want to be compensated 
for the area of their room. However, I find this differential excessive. RSA has said the 
differential is £60 for the whole floor, which doesnt feel right either. So, to put this right, I 
think RSA should re-consider an offer for the settlement. However, if an agreement cant be 
reached with Mr and Mrs M, then I intend for RSA to replace the floor (supply and fit) with 
engineered wood.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs M accepted my provisional decision in principle. However, they have expressed 
their preference to receive a cash settlement for their claim.
RSA rejected my provisional decision. RSA has provided information from its contractor that 
shows the planned works, however, it said it doesnt have any documentation that evidences 
Mr and Mrs M agreed to the material choices as a member of its team has since left the 
company.
RSA said [Mr and Mrs M] never said they were unhappy to return home and accepted a 
disturbance allowance payment. If they had mentioned they were unhappy [RSA] would 
have sorted further AA as it was authorised up until till 1st November. Even if the hotel was 
fully booked the arrangements could be made elsewhere. Whilst I agree that the claim could 
have been managed better, the client never chased with the claims handler for further AA 
extension and claims were unaware that they returned home earlier. [Mr and Mrs M] called 
AA team to notify that they [were] checking out earlier and AA team confirmed if they needed 
further support to get in touch which [them] but the policyholder never [did].
RSA said, there is also a note on the 2nd of November confirming that policyholder wished 
to stay at home rather than in AA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate RSA has provided greater context to justify its views, the information 
provided hasnt persuaded me to change the decision. Ill explain why.
RSA has shown the works its contractor has planned to do. However, this is contrary to what 
Mr and Mrs M were expecting. RSA said it tried to do the right thing in paying Mr and Mrs M 
£60 for using a different material  but I dont think this payment is reasonable. It doesnt 
compensate Mr and Mrs M sufficiently. RSA hasnt managed to show that Mr and Mrs M 
agreed to the material choices. Without this key piece of evidence, coupled with RSA 
showing it accepted liability by agreeing to paying the additional sum, my original decision 
holds in respect to the flooring.
Mr and Mrs M have expressed a preference to receive a cash settlement. However, their 
claim for the differential cost was £60 per metre. I thought this was unreasonable, and they 
havent provided sufficient evidence to justify this. And I dont have the information available 
to me to make an estimate of the differential cost myself. So, I think the decision I reached is 
the fairest one. If both parties act reasonably there is no reason why a cash settlement cant 
be agreed. Then, there is a fallback option to replace the floor if a fair agreement cant be 
reached. 
RSA said there is a note which confirms that Mr and Mrs M wished to return home from AA. I 
have checked the note and it reads he also needs to submit receipts for laundry and the 
receipt for an oil heater as they returned home rather stay in AA but still have no heating. I 
dont think this evidence outweighs what Ive already seen. Mr and Mrs M have expressed 
their dissatisfaction with the arrangements. I dont find it logical that someone would return 
home in sub-standard conditions if a suitable alternative offer had been made. I dont think 
this note expresses Mr and Mrs M wanted to return home.
Mr and Mrs M couldnt stay at the AA arranged as it was full, so they felt they didnt have any 
choice. RSA said, even if the hotel was fully booked the arrangements could be made 
elsewhere.  I dont think RSA have provided evidence it provided Mr and Mrs M any options 
 I think it was happy for them to go home. I would expect RSA to manage arrangements 
effectively, so the situation was dealt with properly before Mr and Mrs M felt forced to leave 
the hotel that was fully booked.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to:
Re-consider an offer for the settlement (regarding the differential cost of the wooden 
flooring). If an agreement cant be reached with Mr and Mrs M, then I require RSA to 
replace the floor (supply and fit) with engineered wood.
Pay an additional £500 compensation (so £1,000 in total). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman