DRN-2239829
The complaint
Ms S complains that Barclays Bank UK plc trading as Barclaycard acted irresponsibly when 
it increased her credit card limit.
What happened
Ms S had a credit card account with Barclaycard. She says it wrote to her in March 2020 and 
told her it had reviewed the way it set some credit limits. It said the limit it had given her on 
her account, which was now closed, may have been higher than it should have been, and 
she may have incurred losses.
Ms S says she contacted Barclaycard about this and asked it to send her statements for the 
period since the higher credit limit had been put in place. She says she received statements 
for 2014. Barclaycard told her she hadnt paid any interest in 2014 and closed her case.
She asked Barclaycard to provide statements for the period after 2014 but she says 
Barclaycard didnt send these to her. She says the only reason she wouldve spent on a 
credit card that accrued interest was because she was in financial difficulty. She says 
Barclaycard shouldnt have raised her credit limit. And, it should refund the interest she had 
to pay on the card after the limit was raised.
Barclaycard investigated her complaint. It said it had reviewed her account since the limit 
was increased in March 2016. It said there were no transactions that wouldve alerted it to 
Ms S being in financial difficulties. It also said she hadnt contacted it and had been making 
her payments on time. It said shed frequently paid more than the minimum payment. It 
apologised shed had to contact it in response to the letter it had sent her about her credit 
limits and offered her £75 by way of apology. But it didnt accept it had been irresponsible 
when it increased the credit limit.
Ms S didnt agree. She referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into her 
complaint. He said wed expect Barclaycard to have carried out proportional checks before 
increasing the credit limit. He was satisfied it had done this. 
He said hed reviewed her statements and shed benefitted from a 0% interest promotion in 
the period from March 2016 until October 2016. He said there was no record of late or 
missing payments. He thought that use of the card for making everyday purchases wasnt 
unusual and didnt indicate financial difficulties. And, he said shed never contacted 
Barclaycard to tell it about financial difficulties.
He said Barclaycard had offered her £75 by way of compensation for the inconvenience and 
delays shed experienced. He thought this was fair. He didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms S didnt agree. She said Barclaycard hadnt sent her statements for the period since 
2014. She said she would normally have transferred the balance to another card when the 
0% interest promotional period had ended but she couldnt do this because she was in so 
much debt at the time. She said shed had to take out a secured loan to clear her debts. And 
she said the £75 offer from Barclaycard was an apology payment and not for inconvenience 
and delays. 
Our investigator considered what Ms S had said but he didnt change his view.
Because Ms S didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for the account. These state that Barclaycard can 
review the credit limit from time to time. When doing this it considers the customers 
circumstances, account usage and history, information from the rest of its group, information 
from credit reference agencies and any other information it thinks is relevant. 
As our investigator said, wed expect Barclaycard to act responsibly when it decides to 
increase a customers credit card limit. This means wed expect it to undertake an 
assessment of the customers credit worthiness by taking account of various factors such as 
the ability of the customer to make repayments and information from credit reference 
agencies.
UK Finance has also published best practice guidelines which should be applied before a 
firm increases the credit limit on a credit card. These set out that in addition to general 
checks such as information from credit reference agencies and past usage of the account 
the credit card provider should look for the presence of any risk indicators such as where the 
account has been in arrears.
I can see the credit limit on Ms Ss card was increased from £4050 to £7050 in March 2016. 
Barclaycard has provided information about how it made this decision. And, it has provided 
evidence that when assessing Ms Ss credit worthiness, it did take into account a number of 
factors. These include the general checks, as set out in the terms and conditions, including 
account usage and history, and information from credit reference agencies. 
It is also the case that there was no history of late payments or exceeding the credit limit. 
There hadnt been any cash advances on the account. And, on occasions Ms S had paid 
more than the contractual minimum payment. So, I dont think there were any obvious 
reasons that Barclaycard shouldnt have relied on the checks it did before increasing Ms Ss 
limit here.
Ms S says that because she used her card for everyday spending this was an indication of 
financial difficulty. But I agree with our investigator when he said it is not unusual for a card 
to be used in this way. And spending of this nature is not generally regarded as a risk 
indicator.
Barclaycard wrote to Ms S in March 2020 and said it may have set the credit limit higher 
than it shouldve set it. It asked Ms S to contact it if she thought this applied to her and thats 
why she contacted it. Its important to note that in its letter Barclaycard didnt say it had set 
the credit limit too high. It was saying it might have done this. If Ms S thought this applied to 
her, Barclaycard said she should contact it and a review would be carried out. But 
Barclaycard didnt say a review would result in a finding that the credit limit had been set too 
high.I dont see anything to suggest Ms S had previously contacted Barclaycard or that she 
wouldve contacted it if she hadnt got the letter. Shed paid off her balance in November 
2017 and closed the account at that time. But that doesnt mean Barclaycard hadnt set the 
limit too high in March 2016. So, I agree it was necessary to review the limit thatd been set 
in March 2016 to see if there was any evidence to support a finding it had been set too high. 
Barclaycard did carry out that review.  But, having done so, it didnt accept it had set the limit 
too high.
Ive looked at how Ms S used the account since it was opened in 2013. At that time there 
was a 0% interest promotional offer. It applied to purchases and balance transfers for the 
period up to September 2014. Ms S did make a balance transfer to her Barclaycard account 
and I can see she also made purchases during the period up to around November 2014. 
There was limited use of her card after August 2014. I think this may have been because 
she was near the credit limit that had been set.
Ms S paid at least the minimum payment each month. She had set up a direct debit 
arrangement. Her payments were always on time and she never exceeded her credit limit. 
This suggests to me she was in control of her finances at this time.
Once the promotional period ended in September 2014 there was very limited use of her 
card to make purchases. Infact during the period between February 2015 and January 2016 
she doesnt appear to have made any purchases using her card. But she did continue to 
make the minimum payments required each month and incurred no default or other charges. 
The interest rate had reverted to the standard rate for the card.
In March 2016 the limit was increased. And, there was a new promotional 0% interest rate 
on purchases until October 2016.
At this time Ms S started to use the card again. I can see that usage of the card brought her 
close to her credit limit but never in excess of it. And she continued to make her regular 
monthly payments. She also made a substantial additional payment in July 2016. After 
November 2016 there was very limited use of the card.
So, having considered the pattern of transactions it appears Ms S wanted to take advantage 
of the 0% interest promotions. She says she wouldve transferred the balance to another 
promotional offer in October 2016 (when the Barclaycard offer ended) but couldnt do this 
because of her overall indebtedness. But it is the case that she didnt do this when the 
previous promotion ended in September 2014. So, Im not persuaded that she wouldve 
transferred the balance even if her overall indebtedness had been less.
When the 0% promotional interest periods ended Barclaycard charged Ms S interest in line 
with what had been agreed with her when she applied for the card. So, I dont think 
Barclaycard should have to repay any of the interest it charged her.
Ive also considered what Ms S has said about how shes experienced financial difficulties 
because of the level the credit limit was increased to. But if that was the case, I wouldve 
expected to see other indicators of those financial difficulties. Ms S says she had to take out 
a secured loan to repay her Barclaycard and other debtors. Ms S mustve been able to 
demonstrate affordability for that secured loan. She did this in November 2017 and I can see 
the Barclaycard account was closed at that time. 
Ms S continued to pay her minimum monthly payments until the account was closed. And, 
as mentioned above she made an additional payment in July 2016. Its also the case that, for 
several months, after June 2017, there was headroom of around £500 between her balance and her credit limit but despite this, she didnt make any purchases. And she didnt approach 
Barclaycard to tell it about any financial difficulties. 
So, having considered everything here, Im satisfied Barclaycard acted responsibly when it 
increased the credit limit to £7050 in March 2016. Im also satisfied Ms S was charged 
interest in line with the terms and conditions for the account. So, I dont think Barclaycard 
should have to repay any interest charged to her account after it increased the credit limit.
I can see Barclaycards offered to pay Ms S £75 by way of apology because she had to 
contact it after she received its letter in March 2020. I think thats fair and reasonable to 
settle the complaint. If it hasnt already done so, Barclaycard should now make 
arrangements to pay this money to Ms S.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK plc 
trading as Barclaycard.
Barclays Bank UK plc trading as Barclaycard has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle 
the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK plc trading as Barclaycard should pay Ms S £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman