DRN-3583123
The complaint
Mr B complains about credit limit rises on his credit card account with Barclays Bank UK 
PLC, trading as Barclaycard. Hes also unhappy with the support offered by Barclays when 
he experienced financial difficulty.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr B and Barclays. I wont repeat in  
detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the 
reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Mr B had a credit card account with Barclays for a number of years. A number of credit limit 
rises since the account opened. Mr B has said he didnt ask for his credit limit to be 
increased and didnt receive communication notifying him or detailing how to opt out of limit 
increases.
Mr B lost his job in February  2020  just before the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. He 
notified Barclays and requested a COVID-19 payment deferral. This wasnt approved by 
Barclays, they told Mr B that his account was already in arrears prior to the beginning of the 
pandemic.
Mr B complained to Barclays, was unhappy with their response and referred the complaint to 
our Service for an independent review. Our investigator most recently recommended that the 
complaint be upheld. Barclays accepted her findings and made a settlement offer. Mr B 
didnt feel their offer went far enough - so the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a large number of issues have been raised as part of this complaint, this decision 
only addresses those issues I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt 
meant as a discourtesy to either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at 
my decision.
Mr B had made repeated references to what Barclays have done for other customers in 
similar situations. With all due respect to Mr B, I wont know the individual circumstances for 
those customers. In my decision Ill consider many factors, including: the law, good industry 
practice, relevant rules and guidance - as well as whats fair and reasonable in the individual 
circumstances of this complaint.  
A number of issues were also raised after the complaint was referred to our Service. These 
wont be considered as part of this decision. Namely, communication between a third party 
debt collection business and Mr B. Should Mr B remain dissatisfied, hed need to raise a new 
complaint with Barclays about those issues. 
The support offered when Mr B experienced financial difficulties
Mr B was unhappy with Barclays declining his request for a COVID-19 payment deferral in 
April 2020. Im satisfied that Barclays followed the guidance set out by the regulator - The 
Financial Conduct Authority (The FCA) when implementing the deferrals. The FCA set out 
in their guidance: 
This guidance applies where customers are already experiencing or reasonably 
expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of coronavirus.
Mr B was already two months in arrears and in line with the relevant FCA guidance on 
payment deferrals at that time, it wasnt unreasonable of Barclays to turn down this request 
and, based on what Ive seen, COVID-19 wasnt the primary factor that lead to the financial 
difficulties Mr B was experiencing. Hed lost his main source of income (his job) before the 
pandemic had begun to properly impact. 
Barclays considered an income and expenditure assessment - which was a positive step, as 
it gave them an up to date picture of Mr Bs financial circumstances. This assessment 
concluded that Mr B had no disposable income. Therefore Barclays couldnt put in place a 
repayment arrangement plan.
At this point, the options for Mr B were very limited, but it was positive and supportive of 
Barclays on 26 May 2020 to freeze interest for one month and refund interest charged in the 
previous two months (£174.50 and £150.57). This also allowed Mr B extra time to find 
employment. But Mr B was living abroad around this time, not working, shielding from 
COVID-19, had no disposable income and there was no immediate prospect of his financial 
situation improving. 
Although a very difficult time for Mr B, I dont find that Barclays have done anything wrong in 
taking the actions they have and offering the support they have. It may not have been the 
help that Mr B wanted, but it was an attempt to try and help Mr B avoid his financial situation 
on this account worsening.
Barclays of course had a responsibility to consider what was in Mr Bs best interests when 
offering him appropriate support. Im satisfied that they have done this. In my opinion, the 
downturn in Mr Bs financial circumstances had been ongoing for some time and there was 
no reasonable indication that this was due to change in the near future. Therefore, there 
was no reasonable prospect of Mr B being able to clear his arrears or maintain his minimum 
contractual repayments moving forward. 
As Mr B couldnt maintain his agreed, contractual minimum repayments, a default was later 
registered against this account in September 2020. Ive seen nothing to persuade me that 
this wasnt fair or reasonable and note that Barclays suspended their collection activities 
whilst our Service was considering the complaint. Ultimately, Barclays has a responsibility to 
accurately report a fair picture of Mr Bs account to the relevant credit reference agencies. 
I dont uphold this complaint for this reason. 
The communication around the credit limit rises
Barclays has said at the point of each credit limit rise Mr B was sent communication 
(including post, emails and text messages) that set out he could opt out of the rises. Mr B disputes receiving any such notifications. Ultimately our Service cant tell businesses how to 
communicate with customers. Thats their own business decision. We can consider the 
impact of their communication  which Ive done in this decision. 
I cant hold Barclays responsible for Mr B not opening post (they say was) sent to him. Mr B 
has explained he was receiving lots of junk mail and had where he was able to, selected 
paperless online communications from businesses. That said, the new credit limit will have 
appeared on his monthly statements and Ive seen no supporting evidence he queried this or 
expressed dissatisfaction prior to February 2020 when his financial difficulties on this 
particular account started. 
I dont uphold this complaint for this reason.
The credit limit rises 
Its important to state that Barclays accepted our investigators findings that they acted 
irresponsibly when increasing this credit limit from £6,000 to £9,000 in 2019. This means I 
dont need to make a finding on this point and instead, my consideration will be limited to 
whether the remedy proposed by Barclays is fair and reasonable  and I do. It's important to 
keep in mind that the debt still stands as Mr B has had the benefit of having that line of credit 
available to him and statements show he utilised it.
As pointed out already, Im not considering what approach Barclays have followed, 
voluntarily with other customers. 
Putting things right
Barclays should now (if it hasnt already done so)
rework the account to ensure that from September 2019 interest is only charged on 
the first £6,000 outstanding - to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases 
should have been provided. 
If an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made, 
Barclays should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this and any 
adverse information related to the credit limit increase should be removed. 
If no outstanding balance remains, any adverse information should be removed from 
the credit file. 
If the refund brings means theres no remaining balance, any extra should be treated 
as overpayments and returned to Mr B. 
If applicable, pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were) to the date of settlement.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to follow my direction as 
set out under Putting things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman