DRN-3134705
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they says were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs H are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around January 2015, Mr and Mrs H contacted a company Ill call P to talk about 
buying a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their home. After being visited 
by Ps representative, Mr and Mrs H decided to purchase the system and finance it through 
a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In May 2019 the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that during a call between Mr and Mrs H and P and then when a 
representative from P visited them, several representations about the system were made 
that turned out not to be true. and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr and 
Mrs H to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had 
been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £8,990 to mislead Mr and Mrs H as 
when the interest was added the total cost was £17,839.80;
Mr and Mrs H were promised a tax-free year one benefit of £1,183.32 but werent 
made aware that after making the loan repayments there would be an annual deficit 
of £747.77; 
the system would be self-funded by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) payments; and
the system would not cost Mr and Mrs H a penny.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree that P had 
misrepresented the system to Mr and Mrs H or that there were any other reasons for the 
claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She initially upheld the complaint, 
but after reviewing the additional evidence that Shawbrook provided in response, the 
investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented the system to Mr and Mrs H and found no 
reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view but did not provide any further comments.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For reasons that I will explain below, I am ordering Shawbrook to refund some money to Mr 
and Mrs H, but I am not upholding their complaint that it misrepresented the system to them. 
This means that even if Mr and Mrs H dont accept my decision, Shawbrook should still carry 
out the steps that Ive outlined unless Mr and Mrs H ask it not to.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs H could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs H and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote. Ive considered these in detail and 
whether they support the alleged representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mr and Mrs H recollections of the sale.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
The CMC says that the way in which the cost of the system was presented was designed to 
mislead Mr and Mrs H. This is because the cost of the system set out in the quote didnt 
reflect the total amount that Mr and Mrs H would have to pay. But Im satisfied that the quote 
provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due (as set out in the 
table below). Taken together  the quote and credit agreement  its clear that although the 
original price of the system was £8,990, the total amount payable would be much higher 
because Mr and Mrs H had decided to pay for the system with an interest bearing loan.Revised contract terms
When P gave the original quote to Mr and Mrs H  it was based on a certain number of 
panels being installed. But less panels were installed. P reflected the difference in price of 
£400 in a revised contract document. But I dont think that Mr and Mrs Hs credit agreement 
was amended. 
Shawbrook agrees that the actual cost of the system is £8,590 rather than £8,990. The 
investigator told Shawbrook what she thought would be a fair way to deal with this. When 
Shawbrook responded with information from P, it said that Mr and Mrs H had received £300 
for the panels but that there hadnt been a refund for the loss of generation for the first year. 
So, P was willing to offer Mr and Mrs H £117.11 for loss of generation.
I dont know what refund Shawbrook or P is referring to but as the credit agreement is 
currently based on a cash cost of £8,990 rather than £8,590, it seems fair that Shawbrook 
take steps to rework the credit agreement so that the cash cost of the system is £8,590. This 
is because any interest and charges will have been calculated based on the higher figure of 
£8,990. 
As for the loss of generation payment  this is something that P had previously told Mr and 
Mrs H it would pay. So, it seems fair that Mr and Mrs H now receive the payment of £117.11.
For the remainder of this decision, I will refer to the original credit agreement and 
accompanying quote. 
FIT payments
Mr and Mrs H allege that P told them their monthly loan repayments would be covered, or 
self-funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P to see 
whether this supports what Mr and Mrs H have said.
The System Analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs H could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs H could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £477.83.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs H could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £224.89. When the optional extras 
chosen by Mr and Mrs H are taken into account, the combined income and savings in year 
one is shown as £1,024.50. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together
There is a page titled System Performance and Returns with a series of tables. This has 
three tables showing repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused 
on the table for 180 months as this is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs H entered into 
with Shawbrook. This shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £93.23. For 
each year of the 15-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It 
then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of 
£93.23 to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and the 
monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs H could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly 
loan repayments. But it does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Im satisfied that Ps representative 
wouldve taken Mr and Mrs H through the quote. And Im not satisfied that P told Mr and   
Mrs H that their monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs H that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the estimated average monthly return from the 
system and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied this table is in an easily accessible format comparing the two.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected return and 
the monthly loan repayments. And that the expected return wouldnt be enough to cover the 
monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that P told Mr and Mrs H that the system would be self-funding over a 
duration of time. 
The quote includes a table headed System performance and Returns which details the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that Mr and    
Mrs H could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs H that the system would pay for 
itself by year 13, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and I were to be satisfied that this was what induced Mr and Mrs H to enter into the contract, 
and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs H. The MCS certificate and document headed Contract 
sets out that the system is expected to produce 2,937.78 kWh a year. 
I have looked at Mr and Mrs H FIT statements and can see that their system, on average, 
has generated 2,668.85 kWh. This is slightly less than estimated by P at the point of sale, 
and Im of the view this is partly due to fewer panels eventually being installed at their home. 
Im satisfied that the systems performance is within a reasonable margin of the point of sales 
documents and this difference in performance wouldnt have been sufficient enough to have 
induced Mr and Mrs H to enter into the contract. 
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2004 and 2013 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why they havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting 
from the solar panels.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2004 to 2013. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs H 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs H entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs H 
to enter into the contract for the system. But I do find that Shawbrook should take the 
following steps:
rework the credit agreement to reflect the reduced cash price of £8,590;
if Mr and Mrs H have been paying more each month than they shouldve been, 
Shawbrook Bank Limited should refund any overpayments made to date plus 8% 
simple interest; and
pay £117.11 for the loss of generation in the first year.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint that Shawbrook Bank 
Limited misrepresented the system to them. But unless Mr and Mrs H asks Shawbrook not 
to, it should carry out the above steps regardless of whether Mr and Mrs H accepts my final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman