DRN-1910261
The complaint
Mr C says Gain Credit LLC irresponsibly lent to him. Mr C has said the lending was 
unaffordable for him and his lending got out of control. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit facility which had a limit agreed at the outset and then the 
customer was able to draw down the amount he or she needed. This was an open-ended 
agreement.
 
In the case of Mr C, Gain Credits records show that he applied for £200. The credit limit 
agreed for Mr C was £1,000 and started on 2 January 2017. This amount increased on two 
occasions to £1,400 in December 2017 and £1,600 in May 2018. Gain Credit says it carried 
out credit worthiness checks and a credit reference agency check before lending to Mr C.  
Our adjudicator thought it wasnt unreasonable for the facility to have been provided. But 
they thought that a pattern of borrowing had developed suggesting Mr C was having 
problems managing his money. The adjudicator said that Gain Credit shouldnt have 
provided further funds to Mr C from 16 June 2018 as he wasnt using the facility in a 
sustainable way.
Gain Credit didnt reply to the adjudicator.
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the facility was offered.
When the facility was approved, Gain Credit needed to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer would be able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without 
it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply, Gain Credit had to gather 
enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate. And any checks had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, and when that was due to be repaid.
To be clear, Mr C wasnt given a payday loan where he had to repay all of what he borrowed 
plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there was an 
expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a period of at least 
12 months. So overall, I think that this means the checks Gain Credit carried out had to 
provide enough information for it to be able to understand whether Mr C would likely be able 
to service and then repay this facility within a reasonable period of time.
Mr C was granted a running credit facility with a £1,000 limit. According to the credit 
agreement, had he drawn down the full amount on the first day of having the facility, and ran 
the facility for 12 months, he would have paid a total of £1,329.55. This means the monthly 
repayment Mr C would be expected to make would be £110.79 per month. The minimum 
monthly payment he could make was either 5% of the outstanding principal balance or £50. 
 
Before granting the facility, Gain Credit asked Mr C about his monthly income and 
expenditure. Mr C confirmed his monthly income was £1,500 and his monthly expenditure 
was £835.  Gain Credit has also told us that it completed an internal affordability assessment 
and completed a credit check. So, based on the information that Gain Credit gathered, it 
seemed that on a pounds and pence basis Mr C would be able to afford the repayments he 
was committed to making. 
At the start of the lending relationship, it wouldnt be unreasonable for Gain Credit to have 
relied on the information it was provided. And the information Mr C declared about his 
circumstances, coupled with the results of his credit check, suggested he could afford to 
repay the facility. So, taking into account the individual circumstances of this case. I dont 
think Gain Credit needed to do more before this facility was granted.
But Gain Credit had an obligation to monitor the account to ensure Mr C wasnt experiencing 
difficulty in maintaining the account. The regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority  set 
out guidance in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook. Section 6.7.2R of the guidance relevant 
at the time of the borrowing said;
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are sign of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
After taking this into consideration, our adjudicator didnt think any borrowing should have 
been given after 16 June 2018 because the borrowing pattern that had developed suggested 
Mr C wasnt using the facility in a sustainable way. 
Mr C initially made a drawdown of £200 after the £1,000 credit facility was agreed. This was 
repaid around two weeks later. He took a further £100 in February but repaid this very 
shortly afterwards. During the last week of February and the first week of Mark Mr C made 
four drawdowns taking his account balance to around £500. This was repaid around a week 
after the fourth drawdown. No further drawdowns were made until the August. 
But between August 2017 and the end of December 2017 Mr C made 18 drawdowns 
ranging between £50 and £600 reaching the £1,000 limit. On two occasions in August and 
October Mr C paid his account off in full but would return for further drawdowns shortly 
afterwards. Other credits were for much smaller amounts nearer to the minimum payment he 
could make under the agreement. 
I think Gain Credit should have started to take a closer look at how Mr C was using the 
facility as generally the principal amount outstanding wasnt reducing and may have 
suggested Mr C was becoming reliant upon the facility.  At the end of December 2017, the credit limit on the facility was increased to £1,400. Gain 
Credit has told us it contacted Mr C four times between August 2017 and November 2018 to 
confirm that Mr Cs disposable income remained sufficient tor the minimum monthly 
payment. And I havent seen anything from Mr C such as bank statements to suggest that 
the increase in the limit was unaffordable for him. 
Just after a week of the credit limit being increased Mr C had drawn down the maximum he 
could. And there were a further six drawdowns up until May 2018. During that time with the 
exception of when Mr Cs made two payments of £500 in March, the balance didnt 
significantly decrease.
In May 2018 the credit limit was again increased, this time to £1,600. Again, I would have 
expected Gain Credit to have carried out additional checks to make sure the facility was 
affordable, but I dont have anything from Mr C to show that it wasnt. 
The adjudicator concluded that by 16 June 2018 Gain Credit should have been further 
concerned about Mr Cs use of the facility. Since the break in borrowing in August 2017 he 
had made 29 drawdowns in ten months and he remained close to or at the credit limit facility 
maximum. Mr C had been using the facility for around 17 months in total. So, I think it was 
now clear Mr C wasnt using the facility as intended and it was unsustainable for him.   
So, Im partially upholding this complaint as I dont think any further draw downs should have 
been allowed after Mr C 16 June 2018. There was sufficient evidence to suggest that Mr C 
was struggling with his finances and was becoming persistently reliant upon the borrowing. 
He wasnt making any inroads into repayment of the principal amount borrowed  he was 
just servicing the debt. Mr Cs borrowing pattern suggested it wasnt likely that Mr C would 
be able to repay the debt within a reasonable length of time, so the lending was 
unsustainable for him.
Putting things right
A) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the account relating to any drawdowns 
taken after 16 June 2018.
B) Treat all payments Mr C made towards his account after 16 June 2018 as though 
they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Mr C would have been in credit on his account after considering the 
above, Gain Credit will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments from the date they would have arisen to the date the 
refund is made.
D) Gain Credit should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Cs 
credit file after 16 June 2018.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Gain Credit to deduct tax from this interest. Gain Credit 
should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
should put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman