DRN-4271237
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as U, complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-op) 
made payments to one of Us previous employees despite U cancelling the standing orders 
to that person.
Us director, Mr P, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
In July 2021, U cancelled a standing order to one of its former employees. U set up a new, 
one off payment, to be paid to the same person on 31 August 2021.
In November 2021, Mr P complained to the Co-op as he had noticed that both standing 
orders had debited Us account in August and again on 30 September. Although Mr P 
received an acknowledgment of the complaint from the Co-op, a final response on the matter 
was never issued by them. So, Mr P brought Us complaint to our service. 
The Co-op agreed we could look into the complaint and asked us to offer £75 to U in 
recognition of the poor service it received from them in relation to the handling of the 
complaint. However, the Co-op said they were not responsible for the payments being made 
or the cancellation of the payments. The Co-op offered a further £100 for the delays in a 
payment recall request being initiated for the August and September payments. 
One of our investigators looked into the issues raised by U. He upheld the complaint in part, 
as although he hadnt found that the Co-op were responsible for the payments being made 
to Us former employee, he did agree that there had been a delay in the payment recall 
request being initiated. He said that the Co-ops offer of £100 as an apology for this delay 
was fair, in addition to the £75 they had offered to U for the poor service in relation to the 
handling of Us complaint.
Mr P was unhappy with this outcome. He said he had evidence that the standing order 
payments had been cancelled and that this was not done by U.
He also said there was evidence the Co-op suffered significant system errors whereby they 
re-started other customers standing orders that had been previously cancelled and he said 
the Co-op had set up a team to deal with these issues. 
Mr P explained that in mid-2022 the Co-op had restarted five of Us monthly standing orders 
which had all been cancelled several months earlier. In addition, another payment had been 
made to the former employee in error. Mr P asked our investigator to listen to a call that took 
place with the Co-op in May 2022 and ask the Co-op about the most recent payment. 
Our investigator went back to the Co-op and asked for additional information about the other 
standing orders that has been restarted and queried the latest payment that had been made 
to the former employee. 
The Co-op supplied the additional information requested and our investigator listened to the 
call and asked the Co-op some further questions. The Co-op agreed that they had had some 
issues with standing orders, but this was a separate technical issue and this error was not 
linked to Us original complaint. 
The Co-op accepted that the most recent payment was the result of a bank error and 
arranged for this to be refunded. However, they provided screenshots to show the latest 
issue was not linked to the original payments that were made.
Our investigator provided Mr P with the evidence from the Co-op to show the payments to 
Us former employee had been cancelled. He said that he could see why Mr P might think 
the two issues were connected but that the Co-op had provided evidence to show they 
werent. 
Mr P remained unhappy with the outcome and asked for Us complaint to be looked at by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me to decide.
I contacted the Co-op for further information as the screenshots provided by Mr P from Us 
online banking appeared to show that the payments had been cancelled while the 
information provided by the Co-op contradicted this.
The Co-op responded explaining what each column on the screenshot provided by Mr P 
represented and where they thought the confusion in interpreting this information had arisen 
for U. 
This information was provided to Mr P to comment on but no response was received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence provided by both parties Ive found that the payments made to 
Us former employee were cancelled too late and the payment of them was not caused by an 
error made by the Co-op.
I say this because the information provided by the Co-op shows that U initiated a recurring 
payment to its former employee in July 2021. I think it is likely that U intended this to be a 
one-off payment and on realising that it was recurring, cancelled it on 30 September 2021. 
However, as it was cancelled after the cut off time, the payment went ahead. 
A second recurring payment to the same former employee was initiated by U and this 
payment was also cancelled on 30 September. Again, as this was cancelled after the cut off 
time, this payment also went ahead.
As our investigator explained, the payments are generally processed in the morning so its 
highly likely both payments wouldve debited Us account prior to their cancellation. 
Mr P said that U didnt cancel the standing orders and that this mustve been done by 
someone in the bank. However, the Co-op have explained to us that if an account holder 
sets up a standing order via online banking, the payment details are recorded on their online 
facility and not the banks central systems. Therefore, the bank couldnt cancel the standing 
order as they dont hold it on their systems.Mr P also said that although the dates are the same, the cancelled/initiated actions were the 
exact opposite on his screenshots, and this was one of the reasons he didnt agree with our 
investigators view of the matter. So, I asked the Co-op to provide further detail about the 
payments.
The Co-op responded explaining what each column of the online banking screenshot Mr P 
provided relates to. This information confirms the date the payments were initiated, and this 
matches the information I have detailed above. This screenshot also shows that they were 
set up as recurring payments.
I asked our investigator to send this information to Mr P for him to provide any further 
comments, but we didnt hear back from him.
The information provided by the Co-op further supports their earlier evidence which showed 
the time and date the payments were set up and cancelled - and that these were recurring 
payments. So, I cant say that these payments were made as a result of an error by the Co-
op as from what Ive seen the Co-op were acting on the instruction set up and provided by U.
Additionally, as only someone with access to Us online banking couldve cancelled the 
standing order, Im satisfied that these standing orders were cancelled by U in September 
2021 and that the Co-op were not responsible for these payments being made or cancelled. 
Issues arising in 2022
The Co-op have confirmed that there were issues in mid-2022 with some standing orders 
and the same former employee had a further payment credited to them in error. Although I 
can understand why Mr P might think these issues were related, from the information 
provided to me, Im satisfied that these incidents are not linked. 
This payment was sent at a time when the Co-op had a system issue which affected a 
number of customers and not just U. In addition it was a significant number of months after 
the initial issue and Im satisfied that if it had been linked to the original matter then 
payments wouldve left Us account on a monthly basis in line with the standing order 
instruction that it had set up. 
Our investigator spoke to the Co-op about this payment and it was refunded immediately. Im 
therefore satisfied that this aspect of the complaint was resolved, and the original payments 
are not linked to this incident.
Customer Service
Although I dont think the Co-op were responsible for the earlier payments being made to Us 
former employee, I can see that there have been customer service issues along the way. 
The Co-op didnt initially investigate Us concerns or log its complaint and there were delays 
in them contacting the receiving bank to try and recall the payments.
There is never a guarantee that a payment will be recalled or that the receiving bank will 
even reply to the request, but I do think the Co-op shouldve started this process sooner. 
The Co-op have offered to pay £100 to U to reflect this delay and a further £75 in recognition 
of their poor customer service in relation to logging and investigating Us complaint. I think 
this is a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances of this complaint. My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay £175 to U.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P, on behalf of 
U, to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2023. 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman