DRN-3833077
The complaint
Mr P complains, on behalf of his business A, that The New India Assurance Company 
Limited unfairly declined a claim under his business protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise the 
key events here.
In 2020, there was a theft and malicious damage at the insured business premises which led 
to consequential losses including business interruption. So Mr P made a claim under As 
business protection insurance policy.
New India declined the claim. It said A had no insurable interest in the business that is run 
from the premises  who Ill refer to as C  and that it is Mr P personally who runs C with 
permission from the owners under a management agreement. Because of this, New India 
said there had been a misrepresentation and voided the policy.
Mr P didnt think his claim had been declined correctly or fairly in accordance with case law, 
so he raised a complaint which he brought to our service. But our investigator didnt uphold 
it. As Mr P didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me and in November 2022 I issued the 
following provisional decision.
My provisional decision
Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, for a contract of insurance to be valid, the 
insured party must have an insurable interest in the subject matter of the insurance policy. 
In this case that means, for the insurance policy to be valid, A must have some financial 
interest in C and / or the insured premises from which C is run, i.e. it must have something to 
lose if C or the insured premises suffers harm.
To clarify, its not my role to decide whether A has an insurable interest which satisfies the 
contract of insurance. Instead, my role is to decide whether New Indias decision to decline 
the claim and void the policy was fair in the circumstances based on the information it had at 
that time.
From the information provided, it appears Mr P personally entered into a management 
agreement with the owners of C in around 2012, which allows him to run the business from 
the premises, provided that certain conditions are met. From what Ive seen, A is a separate 
entity from C and it was set up in around 2017  several years after Mr P entered into this 
agreement to run C. And there is no evidence of a transfer of business to A.
Furthermore, A doesnt own the premises nor is it a tenant of the premises. I understand the 
renovations, which were the subject of malicious damage, were paid for by Mr P personally.
Its not clear who paid for the stock which was stolen. New India believe Mr P paid for this 
personally. And, whilst Mr P has provided invoices that are addressed to A, I havent seen 
anything to show that they were actually paid by A.
Mr P has provided a brief letter from his accountant which sets out the fixed assets 
recognised in As accounts. But there is nothing to show the make up of A and New India 
say there are other businesses in As portfolio.
For these reasons, Im not satisfied Mr P has demonstrated to New India that A has an 
insurable interest. So I cant fairly conclude that New Indias decision was wrong or unfair in 
the circumstances.
Mr P has provided case law in support of his argument that New Indias stance is a 
technical defence and that Courts are reluctant to find the absence of an insurance 
contract after a premium has been paid.
Ive considered the case law presented and whilst Im not bound under the DISP rules by the 
law and regulations, I have taken it into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case.
Looking at the case law presented, I can see the Court found that the business in that case 
did have an insurable interest in the property  which was the subject of a fire  as there was 
a lawful relationship between the business and the individual, and that the business paid rent 
to the individual. These circumstances differ from As position whereby no information has 
been given to show what interest A had in C or the premises.
I recognise that Mr P has suffered a significant loss to his business and livelihood, and for 
that he has my sympathy. But he shouldnt feel like hes losing out on a technicality; from 
what Ive seen, the insured party  A  simply isnt entitled to claim under the policy as it has 
no financial interest in the business being claimed for. And I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that it would be reasonable to depart from the established legal principle of 
insurable interest.
New India says had the business ownership been represented correctly it wouldnt have 
offered a policy. On that basis, it has voided As policy from inception and offered to refund 
the premiums.
Looking at the applicable law  Insurance Act 2015  Mr P shouldve made a fair 
presentation of the risk when he took out this policy by disclosing everything he knew, or 
ought to know, that would influence the judgement of New India in deciding whether to 
insure the risk.
Having reviewed the proposal forms, I cant see that he told New India about the business 
set up with C and that he had entered into a management agreement personally  which 
Mr P wouldve been aware of. New India says had it known this information, it wouldnt have 
offered a policy.
So Im satisfied there has been a misrepresentation here which would amount to a qualifying 
breach. In these circumstances, the Insurance Act 2015 allows New India to void the policy, 
refuse any claims and return the premiums. So Im satisfied the action New India has taken 
is fair and in line with the remedies available to it and the policy should be treated as if it 
didnt exist.
If Mr P has any further evidence which shows A has an insurable interest  like a full 
breakdown of As accounts or proof of payment from As bank account for stock, rent or wages as an example  then he should present this to New India for it to reconsider its 
position. I can only decide this complaint based on the information New India had when it 
made its decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mr P nor New India has responded to my provisional decision and the deadline for 
doing so has now passed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further submissions for my consideration, I see no reason to 
deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I direct The New India Assurance Company Limited to refund the 
premiums paid by or on behalf of A in respect of the policy in question from inception until 
the date the policy was voided.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman