DRN-3234770
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a
cancellation claim they made on a travel insurance policy.  
What happened
In December 2019, Mr and Mrs C booked a holiday abroad. They were due to travel to a
country Ill call T between 10 and 17 March 2020. On 24 February 2020, Mr and Mrs C took
out an Explorer Platinum annual travel insurance policy, which was underwritten by URV.
Cover under the policy began on 24 February 2020 and was due to end on 23 February
2021.
However, on 9 March 2020, as a result of Covid-19, Ts government placed the country into
lockdown. And on 10 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office
(FCDO  formerly the FCO) advised against all but essential travel to T. So Mr and Mrs C
cancelled their trip and made a claim on their travel insurance policy.
URV turned down Mr and Mrs Cs claim. It said the circumstances of it werent covered by
the cancellation section of the policy.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with URVs decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator thought that Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. He accepted that
the policy didnt cover cancellation due to a change in FCDO advice. But he noted that the
policy specifically excluded any cover at all if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice.
This meant Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have been covered if theyd cancelled and they wouldnt
have been covered if they travelled. He didnt think the policy terms made the combined
effect of these terms clear. And he considered that if Mr and Mrs C had been aware that they
wouldnt be covered if FCDO guidance changed before they travelled, they wouldve been
unlikely to take out the policy. So he felt it would be fair for URVs to assess Mr and Mrs Cs
claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
URV disagreed. It said the cancellation section of the policy clearly outlined the cover
provided. It also said that Mr and Mrs C had had a 14-day cooling-off period after theyd
taken out the policy, in which time theyd have clearly seen what was covered. So it didnt
think Mr and Mrs C had been misled. It added that Covid-19 had been an unknown entity
when the FCDO section of the policy was written, so it didnt agree that one line should
change the outcome of cover.  
I issued a provisional decision on 2 December 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think URV had treated Mr and Mrs C fairly. I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for
Business) say:
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to:
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its 
customer;
handle claims promptly and fairly.
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an
informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
Appropriate information includes the information that must be set out in an IPID, which
gives customers an at a glance summary of their cover. This includes a summary of the
insurance cover, including the main risks insured, the insured sum and, where applicable,
the geographical scope and summary of excluded risks.
Relevant regulatory guidance (the FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors
for the Fair Treatment of Customers) says firms should consider the impact of their actions 
or inactions  on the customer throughout the lifecycle of the service being provided.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID)
The IPID summarises the cover available. On page 2, it says:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region when the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all or all but essential travel.
The policy terms and conditions
Page 18 of the policy terms sets out the specific, listed events URV covers if a policyholder
cancels their trip. These are as follows:
1 The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications arising as a direct result of
pregnancy of
a) you
b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c) any person who you have arranged to slay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate
2 You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance
3 Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
(which qualifies for payment under current United Kingdom redundancy payment legislation,
and at the time of booking the trip there was no reason to believe anyone would be made
redundant)
4 You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a member of
the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services or
employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised leave cancelled or
are called up for operational reasons, provided that the cancellation could not reasonably
have been expected at the time when you purchased this insurance or at the time of bookingany trip.
5 The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due to
serious damage to your home caused by lire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood, subsidence,
fallen trees, collision by load vehicles, malicious people or theft.
The policy also sets out a list of specific things URV doesnt cover and which apply to the
whole policy. This includes the following, on page 14 of the policy, under the heading What
is not covered  applicable to all sections of the policy:
Travelling against FCO advice
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign &
Commonwealth Office (FCO) or regulatory authority in a country to/from which you are
travelling has advised against all or all but essential travel.
While reviewing the policy terms, Ive noted that there is also the following exclusion listed
under the cancellation section:
What is not covered
Any claims arising directly or indirectly from: 
d) your fear of an epidemic, pandemic, infection or allergic reaction.
Covid-19 was declared to be a pandemic on 11 March 2020. But in this case, Im persuaded
that the reason Mr and Mrs C cancelled their trip was specifically because the FCDO
advised against all but essential travel to T to 10 March 2020.
Was it unreasonable for URV to turn down the claim?
Mr and Mrs C cancelled their trip because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel
to the destination they were due to travel to. Thats not something that is covered under the
terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed insured event. However,
taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont think that leads to a fair
and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the reasons Ill go on to
explain.
The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr and Mrs C had travelled abroad (in
the event that it was possible for them to do so), theyd have not followed FCDO advice. So,
they wouldnt have been covered by any of the policy terms and conditions. But, under the
terms and conditions of the contract, cancellation of a holiday due to changes in FCDO
guidance also isnt covered by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently clear to Mr
and Mrs C.
Mr and Mrs C wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, regardless of the presence of
a cooling off period in the contract, I dont think that this information was brought to their
attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I dont think the combined effect of the
policy terms was made sufficiently clear.
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr and Mrs C
and URV. I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs C wouldve purchased the policy if theyd
realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance changed after theyd
bought it. And, at the time Mr and Mrs C bought the policy, they wouldve been able to find
cover elsewhere which did cover the circumstances they subsequently found themselves in.
It's clear that the situation which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 was unprecedented andcouldnt have been foreseen by either insurers or policyholders. But for the reasons Ive
outlined, and in these circumstances, I currently think the fair and reasonable outcome here
is for URV to treat Mr and Mrs Cs claim as covered under the cancellation section of the
policy.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
URV let me know it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any more information or evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to treat Mr and Mrs Cs cancellation claim as
covered under the cancellation section of the policy and to assess it in line with the
remaining terms and conditions of the contract.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman