DRN-2717939
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC, (Lloyds), (trading as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester), mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance, (MPPI), 
policy.
What happened
Mr W took out a monthly-premium MPPI policy in 2003, at the same time as taking out a 
mortgage. The sale took place during a meeting. The initial premiums for this insurance 
were about £34 a month. And following a successful claim it would have paid out over £350 
a month, for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. As Mr W 
disagreed the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection insurance 
on our website. Ive taken this into account in reaching my decision.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr W, but Ive decided not to uphold 
his complaint. I explain why below.
 I think on balance that Mr W knew that the MPPI was optional and that he chose to 
take it. I say this because Ive seen his signed mortgage application. And I can see 
that there is a tick in the box requesting MPPI, whereas the equally prominent box, to 
be ticked to decline this insurance, has been left blank. I realise that this form was 
almost certainly completed by Lloyds representative. But I think it is reasonable to 
assume that Mr W would have had the opportunity to read the form through before 
signing it. And had he done so I think it would have been clear to Mr W that he had a 
choice whether to take the insurance or not.
Mr W also signed a separate application for the insurance, and there was nothing on 
this or his mortgage agreement to suggest that policy had to be taken out;
Mr W says that Lloyds used scare tactics and pressured him into taking the MPPI. 
But I dont find that telling him that he would stand a better chance of getting his 
mortgage if he also took out the MPPI, which Mr W says Lloyds said, of itself 
amounts to the use of undue pressure or frightening procedures. To reach such a 
finding I would require more persuasive evidence;
Lloyds recommended to Mr W that he take out the policy. This meant that it had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for him. Lloyds also had to give Mr W 
clear, fair and not-misleading information so that he could make an informed decision 
whether he wanted to take the insurance or not, in the light of his circumstances at the 
time.
I find that the policy was suitable for Mr W. I say this because knowing what I 
do about his circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions of the policy:
oMr W was eligible for the policy;
oMr W wasnt caught by any of the policys main restrictions and limitations - such as 
those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
oThe policy was competitively priced by reference to other policies available in the 
market at the time. And it offered a reasonable benefit. And I havent seen anything to 
make me think that Mr W couldnt afford the premiums. In any event, had he later 
thought that he couldnt afford the MPPI, or no longer wanted it, because it was paid 
for monthly he could have cancelled it at any time without further cost;
oMr W was entitled to sick pay from his employment, and he had some savings. But, 
following a successful claim, the MPPI would have paid out in addition to his other 
means leaving those available to meet his other expenses while he was unable to 
work. As Ive said, these insurance payments would have been made for up 12 
months, which is a longer period than was represented by his other means referred 
to. So I find that the policy could have been of use to him. I say this particularly 
bearing in mind the serious consequences that could have arisen had Mr W been 
unable to make his mortgage repayments which were secured on his home;
Its possible that Lloyds didnt tell Mr W everything that it ought about the policy during 
the sales meeting. But as Ive concluded above that it was suitable for him, I think that 
he would still have taken it had Lloyds given him clearer information. This means that 
Mr W hasnt lost out because of anything that may have been wrong with Lloyds sales 
process. So theres nothing I require Lloyds to put right.
As Ive said Ive though about everyting Mr W has told us. I including that he never missed 
any mortgage payments. But Mr W wouldnt have known at the time he took MPPI, that there 
was no possibility of some unforessen circumstance arising in the future that would have 
meant he wasnt able to earn. So this and Mr Ws other points dont change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021. 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman