DRN-3318413
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with the service that she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding
her application for a payment holiday on her HSBC personal loan account.
What happened
Mrs K applied for a three-month payment holiday on her loan account in April 2020 as she
was struggling to meet the contractual repayments required on the account because of the
financial impact of Covid-19.
Unfortunately, HSBC were themselves experiencing operational difficulties as a result of
Covid-19 at that time, and the payment holiday wasnt applied to Mrs Ks account in a timely
manner. This meant that a loan payment was collected from Mrs Ks current account by
direct debit.
HSBC confirmed to Mrs K that they would reverse the taken loan payment, cancel the direct
debit to avoid further payments being taken, and retrospectively apply the three-month
payment holiday to her account to start in April 2020.
However, further HSBC delays meant that, by the time that HSBC attempted to apply the
payment holiday, Mrs Ks loan account was showing on their system as being two months in
arrears  because of the cancelled direct debit and the agreed non-collection of payments.
This in turn meant that Mrs Ks application for the three-month holiday was declined by
HSBC and the loan account arrears were reported by HSBC to Mrs Ks credit file.
Mrs K raised a complaint with HSBC about this, and HSBC confirmed that they would
remove the arrears from her credit file and apply the agreed three-month payment holiday to
her account starting in April 2020. HSBC also apologised for what had happened and
credited Mrs Ks account with £100 for the trouble and upset the matter had caused.
Mrs K didnt subsequently receive any confirmation from HSBC that the payment holiday had
been applied to her account, and while HSBC confirmed that it had been applied they also
acknowledged that Mrs Ks credit file hadnt been amended as they had promised it would,
and so they issued another apology to Mrs K and paid a further £100 compensation to her.
Mrs K wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, and she noted that her credit file was still
showing the loan account as being in arrears, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They liaised with HSBC who confirmed
that the credit file amendments had been completed. Additionally, while our investigator
acknowledged that Mrs K had been unreasonably distressed and inconvenienced by what
had happened, they felt that HSBCs response to her complaint, including the corrective
action and the amounts of compensation already paid, already represented a fair and
reasonable resolution, and so they didnt think that HSBC should take any further action.
Mrs K remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 January 2022 as follows:
HSBC dont dispute that Mrs K didnt receive the standard of service from them that 
they aspire to here, and theyve acknowledged that the three-month payment holiday 
wasnt applied to Mrs Ks account when it should have been and that this caused 
other issues, including the reporting of arrears to Mrs Ks credit file that shouldnt 
have been reported.
In circumstances such as this, it would be expected that HSBC would take the 
corrective action necessary to ensure that Mrs Ks loan account and credit file are put 
back into the position that they should be in, had the payment holiday been applied in 
a timely manner.
I think that HSBC have done that here, and I say this because its evident that the 
payment holiday has been applied retrospectively to Mrs Ks account to begin in April 
2020 when it should have done, and also because HSBC have been able to 
demonstrate that they requested corrective amendments to Mrs Ks credit file which 
they submitted to the credit reference agencies in September 2020.
I note that Mrs K feels that the credit file amendments havent been made by HSBC 
as promised and that shes sent screenshots to this service to corroborate this. 
However, these screenshots appear to be from around the time that HSBC submitted 
the amendment request.
As such, given that HSBC have been able to confirm that they did supply an 
amendment request to the credit reference agencies in September 2020, and given 
that it can take over a month for requested credit file amendments to be made, I dont 
feel that the screenshots supplied by Mrs K in this regard can be taken as evidence 
that the incorrect reporting remains on her credit file at this time. However, if Mrs K is 
able to provide up to date screenshots of her credit file which show the incorrect 
reporting as remaining in place, I will of course take these into consideration before 
issuing any further decision.
It would also be expected, in circumstances such as this, that HSBC would 
acknowledge the impact that their errors have had on Mrs K and that they would 
make a fair and reasonable payment of compensation to her for the trouble and 
distress this matter has caused. In this instance, HSBC have apologised to Mrs K for 
what has taken place, and theyve made payments of compensation to her totalling 
£200.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair 
and reasonable by one person not being considered as being such by someone else. 
But having considered the circumstances here, I dont feel that £200 that HSBC have 
already paid to Mrs H does provide fair compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience this matter has caused. And as such my provisional decision will be 
that I am upholding this complaint in Mrs Ks favour and instructing HSBC to pay an 
additional £300 to her, taking the total amount of compensation payable to Mrs K to 
£500.In arriving at this provisional decision Ive considered the ongoing nature of these 
events and the impact of them on Mrs K, which it must be remembered took place at 
a time when Mrs K, as a key worker, was working through the Covid-19 pandemic 
and was therefore already in a position of heightened stress.
As such, I do feel that HSBCs errors here  while understandable given the large 
amount of payment holiday applications that theyd received and the operational 
difficulties that they themselves faced at that time  did have a significant impact on 
Mrs K such that I feel that the payment of £300 further compensation to Mrs K is fair 
and reasonable. And Id like to confirm to HSBC that my taking into consideration of 
the operational difficulties that they were experiencing at that time is one reason why 
my instruction of further compensation isnt more than £300 here.
Finally, Mrs K has mentioned that she feels that she should be compensated for her 
not being able to obtain a favourable mortgage while the incorrected reported arrears 
were in place on her credit file. I can appreciate Mrs Ks strength of feeling here, but 
there are many reasons why a mortgage application can be declined or a particular 
rate of interest not offered, and so in order to consider this point in Mrs Ks favour I 
would need to be satisfied that it was solely HSBCs error that had caused Mrs K 
financial detriment in this regard.
This is difficult to evidence, but if Mrs K can provide details of the mortgage that she 
applied for as well as a letter from the mortgage provider confirming that the arrears 
reported on her loan account was the sole reason for Mrs K not being issued with a 
more favourable mortgage offer, I would be happy to consider this point further.
All of which means that, as explained above, my provisional decision here is that I 
am upholding this complaint in Mrs Ks favour and instructing HSBC to make a 
further compensation payment of £300 to Mrs K  taking the total amount of 
compensation payable to £500.
Both Mrs K and HSBC subsequently confirmed that they were happy to accept my 
provisional decision, although Mrs K did note that shed received a further letter from HSBC 
asking her to clear the arrears that were considered as having accrued on her account 
during the payment holiday period. 
I asked HSBC about this letter, and HSBC confirmed that Mrs K isnt considered as being in 
arrears  given the nature of the payment holiday that was applied to her account  and that 
the letter in question is an automated letter that they are unable to prevent being sent. This 
seems reasonable to me, and I encourage Mrs K to gain further confirmation from HSBC in 
regard to the nature of this letter if she feels it necessary to do so.
All of which means that I see no reason not to uphold this complaint in Mrs Ks favour on the 
basis outlined in my provisional decision letter, and my final decision is therefore that I do 
uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
HSBC must make a further payment of £300 to Mrs K, bringing the total amount of 
compensation paid to Mrs K to £500.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc on the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman