DRN-3047136
The complaint
Mr B complains that Logbook Money Limited irresponsibly gave him a fixed sum loan 
agreement secured by a bill of sale on his car. Mr B says the agreement wasnt affordable.  
What happened
In October 2019, Mr B applied for a loan with Logbook Money for £1,500. He was required to 
make 78 weekly repayments of £53.85 with a total repayable of £4,200.30. 
Mr B fell into arrears almost immediately, Logbook Money tried to contact Mr B to make 
payments but was repeatedly unsuccessful. Mr B then advised Logbook Money that the car 
had been impounded due to not being taxed. Logbook Money arranged to have the car 
repossessed and sold at auction. 
Logbook Money applied the sale proceeds of £2,155.20 to the outstanding balance leaving 
an amount of £1,084.26 to pay. It explained that the car had achieved a lower price than 
what might have been expected due to its poor overall condition and because it had failed a 
MOT, requiring several repairs.  
Mr B complained to say that the agreement had been unaffordable to him and that Logbook 
Money didnt carry out adequate affordability checks. He also said that a number of his 
possessions had been in the car when it was repossessed and wanted them returned. 
Lastly, he said that Logbook Money had acted unfairly in repossessing and selling the car.
Logbook Money didnt think it had acted unfairly so Mr B asked our service to consider his 
complaint. One of our adjudicators recommended the complaint be upheld. He didnt think 
Logbook Money made a fair lending decision as it could see from the information it had 
gathered that Mr B was struggling financially and that the loan wasnt affordable to him. He 
said that Mr B should only have to repay the capital borrowed and Logbook Money should 
therefore refund any overpayments it had received, including the proceeds of the car sale. 
However, our adjudicator didnt think Logbook Money had achieved a fair price for Mr Bs car 
and based on independent valuations and taking into consideration the condition of the car, 
he said the value of the car ought to have been £3,200. He said Logbook Money should use 
this figure when calculating the redress. 
Lastly, the adjudicator didnt think Logbook Money had acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
repossessing the car when it did. He was satisfied they had made reasonable attempts to 
come to alternative payment arrangements with Mr B first. However, Mr B didnt agree to 
those proposals. He also wasnt persuaded that the items Mr B said were left in the car had 
been there when Logbook Money repossessed the car. 
Logbook Money accepted the adjudicators findings in relation to the irresponsible lending. 
However, it disagreed with the use of a higher valuation for the car. It said that it wasnt 
appropriate for this service to value cars and consideration hadnt been given to the costs 
Logbook Money incurred in having to repossess the car or the poor condition and state of 
repair it was in. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Logbook Money will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before granting the finance, I think Logbook Money gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mr B about his ability to repay. I say this because it had sight 
of his bank statements which showed his regular income and expenditure information. I can 
see it used this information to help it calculate whether Mr B was overcommitted financially.  
However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically 
mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and 
information showed.
The bank statements Logbook Money reviewed showed that Mr B was already struggling 
financially. I note Logbook Money saw that in the previous three months Mr B had spent in 
excess of £30,000 in gambling transactions which had caused him difficulty in managing his 
finances. This expenditure was significantly more than the income figure it had recorded. 
I also have concerns about the income figure Logbook Money relied on, as the bank 
statements dont support he had that level of income from a regular source. However, even 
using the figure Logbook Money had, it was clear Mr B couldnt afford the borrowing without 
difficulty. Im astounded that Logbook Money took a different view given what it could see 
from his bank statements. I think there were clear indications that Mr B wasnt in a position to 
afford the repayments towards the new agreement without experiencing difficulty or having 
to borrow further. Logbook Money therefore didnt make a fair lending decision.
Mr B says Logbook Money acted unfairly in repossessing the car and selling it. Ive reviewed 
contact notes provided by Logbook Money which show that it made several attempts to 
discuss repayment of arrears with Mr B. As Mr B didnt agree to any repayment proposals, 
I dont think Logbook Money acted unreasonably in eventually taking the steps it did. Overall, 
Ive not seen anything to make me think Logbook Money treated Mr B unfairly when the 
account had fallen into arrears. 
Lastly, Mr B says several of his possessions were left in the car which hed like returned. He 
says many of these were expensive items. However, Mr B hasnt provided any persuasive 
evidence to demonstrate those items were likely in the car when it was repossessed. 
Logbook Money has provided a copy of the collections report completed by the agent that 
picked up the car. This report doesnt list any of the missing items Mr B says were in the car. 
On balance, Im therefore not persuaded those items were in the car at the time it was 
repossessed. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Logbook Money ought to have granted the loan, I dont think its fair for it to 
be able to charge any interest or charges for the borrowing. However, Mr B did have the 
benefit of the capital he received, so I think its fair he pays that back. Logbook Money 
should therefore calculate what Mr B has paid towards the loan (which should include the 
value of the car) and anything he has paid on top of the capital amount received should be 
treated as an overpayment and refunded to him. Had the lending not been approved, Mr B would still be the legal owner of the car and it 
wouldnt have been sold at auction. As Logbook Money has now sold the car it isnt 
possible to return it to Mr B. Ive therefore thought about whether the value Logbook 
Money received for the car was fair and reasonable. 
Ive calculated what the likely cash price of the car was at the time it was repossessed. 
Ive done this with reference to various trade guides on car values. These valuations 
have been provided to Logbook Money for comment, but they havent done so. 
I therefore see no reason not to rely on them as an accurate reflection of the fair value of 
the car. Ive also taken into consideration the overall condition of the car at the time it 
was repossessed and any reasonable costs Mr B would likely have incurred after his 
actions led the car to be impounded (prior to the repossession by Logbook Money). 
Having done so, Im satisfied the cash price of the car was likely to be £3,200.
Logbook Money should therefore include £3,200 (as the cash value of the car) when 
calculating what Mr B has paid towards the capital. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Logbook Money Limited to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Calculate what Mr B has paid towards the capital amount borrowed (including £3,200 
representing the value of the car). It should then refund any overpayments Mr B has 
made in excess of the capital amount borrowed, adding 8% simple interest per year 
from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the 
agreement.
If Logbook Money considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award it 
should provide Mr B with a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, so that he can 
reclaim that amount, should he be eligible to do so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman