DRN-2257071
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Phoenix Life Limited. Hes unhappy about delays in paying his 
pension benefits and says that he lost out as a result.
What happened
Mr B held a pension with Phoenix. In December 2019 he called and asked for a retirement 
pack, but it wasnt sent. The pension value at that time was £15,352.59.
Mr B called again on 26 February 2020 and Phoenix says that it sent a new retirement pack. 
The value had increased slightly and was then £15,510.43.
Mr B didnt receive this pack and called back on 13 March 2020. Phoenix told him a pack 
had been sent earlier but agreed to send another. However, Mr B was told that the pension 
value had fallen and was now £12,743.
Mr B received duplicate retirement packs after that call.
Mr B then called Phoenix and decided to take his pension as a lump sum. The pension value 
had fallen further and was £12,325. He was paid £9,669.81 after tax.
Mr B made a complaint to Phoenix. It upheld the complaint in part and offered him £100. It 
accepted that it had failed to send a retirement pack after his first call but it didnt accept that 
its failures had caused the reduction in the pension value paid.
Mr B didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service.
The complaint was considered by an investigator, but he didnt agree that it should be 
upheld. He thought Phoenixs offer was fair. Phoenix agreed that it should have sent a 
retirement pack in December 2019, but the investigator thought that Mr B could have 
followed up sooner than he did. He didnt think it was fair to hold Phoenix responsible for all 
the delay between 17 December 2019 and 26 February 2020. And the investigator was 
satisfied that Phoenix did send a retirement pack after the call on 26 February 2020 and it 
couldnt be held responsible for any postal delays. Although a pack with the new values 
wasnt sent after the call on 13 March 2020, the new values were discussed with Mr B.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the whole basis of his complaint was that Phoenix failed to send 
the first pack in December 2019. So, he was denied the opportunity to take the higher value 
and he wasnt told to call if he didnt receive the paperwork. If he had been sent the pack in 
December 2019 then none of this would have arisen.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr B has lost out, and I can understand his frustration. But having considered 
the evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I think the offer Phoenix 
has made is fair in all the circumstances and I make no further award.
Firstly, Phoenix has accepted that it made an error in failing to send a retirement back after 
the first contact with Mr B in December 2019. There is no dispute that it got things wrong.
And secondly, there is no doubt that Mr B lost out when the value of his pension fell.
But what I must decide is whether Phoenixs error actually caused Mr B to lose out. If 
Phoenix had sent a pack in December Mr B may have received it and acted on it. But as the 
investigator has said, Mr B had a duty to mitigate his position and so if he had followed up 
the situation sooner, he may still have had the opportunity to claim the pension with a higher 
value. Therefore, whilst Phoenix made an error, I agree that it wouldnt be fair to hold it 
responsible for all the consequences of the entire delay up to 26 February 2020.
Like the investigator, Im also satisfied that Phoenix did send a pack after the call with Mr B 
on 26 February 2020. It has a record of sending a pack, and Mr B did eventually receive two 
retirement packs. I think its most likely that there was some postal delay and Phoenix cant 
fairly be held responsible for a postal delay which is outside its control.
The timing of this transaction is incredibly unfortunate for Mr B. He called Phoenix on 13 
March 2020 only to be told that his pension had lost around 20 per cent of its value when 
compared to the most recent valuation. That is a huge loss over such a short space of time. 
But this was a very unusual time and reflected the fact that on 12 March 2020, due to 
coronavirus and fears of a global recession, the FTSE 100 had suffered the second highest 
one day crash in its history and the biggest since the 1987 market crash.
Phoenix has accepted that it made an error in not sending a pack in December 2019. It has 
offered £100 for any inconvenience that error caused. I think its offer is fair. I appreciate Mr 
Bs frustration, but I dont think this error was the true cause of his loss. There was a postal 
delay which Phoenix isnt responsible for which then combined with a dramatic economic 
crash which led to his losses.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I think the offer Phoenix Life Limited has made is fair. It should 
pay Mr B £100 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman