DRN-1666526
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card.
Background
Mr L took out credit card at a meeting with Barclays in May 2000. At the same time he was 
sold a PPI policy which wouldve covered his credit repayments for accident, sickness and 
involuntary unemployment. He also took out life cover.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ls complaint should be upheld because he had a pre-existing 
medical condition (PEMC) at the time of the sale. The adjudicator didnt think the restrictive 
terms relating to PEMCs were adequately drawn to Mr Ls attention. Had they been brought 
to his attention, the adjudicator didnt think Mr L wouldve taken the policy.
Barclays disagreed. It didnt think, in summary, there was enough evidence to conclude    Mr 
Ls PEMC would have put him off taking the policy. So Mr Ls complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr L's case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Barclays was under a duty to provide Mr L with information on PPI in a clear, fair and non-
misleading way so he could make an informed choice about whether or not he wanted to 
take the policy. To make an informed choice, Mr L needed to understand the costs and 
benefits of PPI, as well as the main exclusions and limitations of the policy.
In addition, Barclays accepts that this was an advised sale, so it had to consider whether the 
policy was suitable for Mr L before advising him to take it out.
Mr L was diagnosed with a  health condition in June 1999, which was continuing at the time 
the PPI was sold to him in May 2000. He was taking daily medication for it, was under the 
care of his doctor and the hospital and was regularly having check ups in relation to it. He 
said he had taken three weeks off work with it when first diagnosed, and he estimated 
between 9 and 12 weeks off work in the year before due to health complications arising from 
this condition. Barclays accepts that Mr L was caught by the terms and conditions of the 
policy, which meant that his pre-existing medical condition was not covered.
Barclays said that Mr L had the option to accept or decline PPI on the credit card 
application form. So, it thought it likely there wouldve been a discussion with him about his PEMC before he selected cover. It said it was possible that Mr L still wanted cover, despite  
his condition.
Ive carefully considered Mr Ls position. Given the nature of his ongoing condition, and what 
Mr Ls said about his circumstances before, and at the time of advice, I think it unlikely he 
wouldve taken PPI if given clearer information about PPI. I think had he understood he 
wouldnt have been able to make a successful claim for time off work related to this 
particular condition, I dont think hed have taken the policy. So, I think he has lost out 
because of what Barclays did wrong. I also dont think the policy was suitable for him in his 
particular circumstances as he was paying for accident and sickness cover, which given the 
nature of his condition, he may not be able to use.
Putting things right 
Barclays should put Mr L in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.    Barclays should find out how much Mr L would have owed when he closed his credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays  should then refund the difference between what Mr L owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.    Barclays should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr L would have 
owed when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.   If  when Barclays works out what Mr L would have owed each month without PPI    Mr 
L paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr L paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr L would 
have owed Barclays something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ls complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC 
and direct it to put things right as set out above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman