DRN-2925343
The complaint
 Mrs E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt make her aware her account was dormant
and so, as a result she was unable to carry out a transaction when she wanted and when 
she realised her account was reactivated  due to exchange rate variation  the transaction 
was at a less favourable rate, so it no longer made sense to her to go ahead with the 
exchange.
What happened
 Mrs E, who says she had been tracking the exchange rate, contacted HSBC on
11 September 2020, to request 120,000 Euros to be transferred from her currency account
into her Sterling (GBP) savings account. HSBC said that request couldnt be completed on
the day as a dormant status had been applied on her account due to inactivity in the
previous twelve months.
Mrs E is unhappy HSBC didnt make her aware of this prior to her calling it, especially as she
was in regular contact with her premier account manager by telephone at the time. Mrs E
says when she became aware her account had been reactivated, the exchange rate had
dropped in price. This meant she missed the opportunity to make a gain on her money
Mrs E said shed like HSBC to offer her an apology and £3,000 in compensation for the
missed opportunity incurred, time taken, and trouble and upset caused.
The investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said he didnt expect the
premier account manager to have notified Mrs E the account had been suspended. But he
thought HSBC didnt make it clear from the start to Mrs E when her account would be
suspended due to inactivity. HSBC also didnt give Mrs E her two months notice in
accordance with the terms and conditions, and she wasnt notified of the banks decision to
stop sending out notifications to customers when an account was about to be suspended.
He thought due to HSBCs lack of clarity and timely communication, Mrs E lost an
opportunity to make a gain on her money and this caused her considerable disappointment.
Therefore, he thought itd be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for HSBC to
compensate Mrs E £300 for time spent, and trouble and upset caused.
He didnt think Mrs E had suffered a financial loss because she hadnt gone ahead with the
transaction after the account was reactivated. So, he didnt propose she be compensated for
this.
HSBC accepted the view.
Mrs Es representative didnt agree with all the investigators view. He thought as Mrs E
spoke regularly with the premier account manager regarding the conversion of the Euros into
Sterling it is difficult to understand how the manager would not be aware that the account
was dormant. Mrs E received no notice that the account would be suspended and as this
was a breach of its terms and conditions the bank should be held accountable for any
misfortune to its clients resulting from this mistake. He says Mrs E was paying HSBC for a
premier account service, however the bank was changing the status of her currency account
without informing her either through letter, text or via her dedicated premier account
manager. HSBC was  he says - in every aspect not providing the service for which she was
paying for. The bank was also not treating her fairly. He says Mrs E kept in very close
contact with her premier account manager and because she wanted to obtain the best
exchange rate for the sale of her Euros to Sterling, so she rang the bank nearly every day,
so, the bank certainly knew of the requirements and objectives of its client. During the period
it took to unblock Mrs Es account the exchange rate had moved against Mrs E. He thinks
Mrs E should be placed in the position she would have been in if HSBC hadnt made its
mistake of breaking its own terms and conditions and failing to treat customers fairly.
I asked HSBC to let me know what Mrs E would have received if she had exchanged her
money when she asked to make the exchange and what she would have received if she had
made the exchange when she knew or ought to have known her account had been
unblocked. HSBC had told Mrs E that her account would be unblocked in 48 hours. HSBC
told me that in that period the exchange rate moved so that Mrs E would have received more
than if she had made the exchange when she initially wanted to do so. The investigator sent
this information to Mrs E. Mrs E doesnt agree with the figures provided by HSBC.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said under the terms and conditions of the account 
HSBC was required to give Mrs E two months advance personal notice before making the 
account dormant. There was no evidence that HSBC tried to give or gave Mrs E this notice. 
So, I found HSBC made an error.
I noted Mrs E says that when she called to make the exchange Euros were 93.02. I also 
noted HSBC has told this service the rate was 0.909087. And that 48 hours later the rate 
was 0.910207.
I said when the consumer and business disagree then I must consider what is most likely to 
have happened. In this case I thought the figures provided by the bank were most likely to 
be accurate. 
As I accepted the figures from HSBC, I therefore thought Mrs E didnt lose any money due
to the block on her account as if she had gone ahead with the transaction when she had
been told her account would be unblocked (48 hours later) she wouldnt have lost out.
I noted the investigator recommended the compensation he did based on the belief that 
Mrs E lost the opportunity to make money. As this doesnt appear to be the case, I thought 
the compensation he recommended was too high. Instead I thought it would be reasonable 
for HSBC to pay Mrs E £100 for the poor service it provided when it made her account 
dormant without giving her notice.
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC accepted my provisional decision.Mrs E did not. She said she is deeply disappointed with my provisional decision. She feels 
given the money was to be used to help her granddaughter with university fees she should 
have received much more sympathy for her loss caused by the currency being devalued 
rapidly. Her granddaughter has now graduated. But she feels very let down by HSBC as she 
has banked with it for over sixty years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I appreciate Mrs Es strength of feeling about this complaint. But for the reasons Ive set out 
in my provisional decision  which I confirm here  I do not think she would have made a 
loss if she had gone ahead with the currency exchange when the account was unblocked. 
HSBC told her it would have been unblocked 48 hours later and 48 hours later the currency 
exchange rates had moved in her favour. 
I also think the compensation I set out in my provisional decision remains fair. I appreciate 
Mrs E has banked with HSBC for sixty years and wanted the money for her granddaughter, 
but as she has told us she contacted the bank regularly, I dont think she would have 
suffered a great deal of inconvenience if she had just phoned to go ahead with the 
transaction 48 hours later. I see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. 
Putting things right
 For the reasons set out above I think HSBC should pay Mrs E £100.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mrs E 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman