DRN-4102272
Complaint
Miss G has complained about loans Lendable Ltd (Lendable) provided to her. She says 
that Lendable provided her with unaffordable loans.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Miss G and Lendable had told us. And he thought 
that Lendable hadnt lent irresponsibly. So she didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint. Miss G 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Gs complaint.
Lendable needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether  
Miss G could afford to repay before providing these loans. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lendable provided Miss G with an initial loan for £6,000.00 in January 2020. It had an APR 
of 8.59% and was to due be repaid in 59 instalments of around £122 and a final payment of 
around £95, which meant the total amount to be repaid was £7,318.00. This loan was settled 
in January 2022. Miss G was then provided with a second loan for £7,500.00 in January 
2022. It had an APR of 32.59% and was to due be repaid in 59 instalments of around £236 
and a final payment of around £230 and the total amount to be repaid was £14,153.35. 
Lendable says it agreed to Miss Gs applications after she provided details of her monthly 
income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search 
it carried out on Miss G. The information Miss G provided about her income and expenditure 
showed shed be able to comfortably make the repayments she was committing to. Lendable 
says, in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Miss G has said 
the loan was unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss G and Lendable have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that these were Miss Gs first loans with Lendable. The information provided does 
suggest Miss G was asked to provide details of her income and expenditure and Lendable 
didnt just rely on what it was told. The credit searches carried out showed that Miss G had 
had little in the way of outstanding debt at the time of loan 1 and what she did have was well 
relatively managed. Although Miss G did owe more at the time of loan 2, this was still 
relatively low. And on both occasions Miss G was well within the credit limits of her revolving 
credit accounts.
Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, what the credit searches showed and Miss 
Gs  lack of any previous lending with Lendable, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Lendable to rely on the payments being affordable. Indeed, on the face of things, the 
payments did appear to be affordable and there was nothing that called the information 
gathered into question. 
I accept that Miss Gs actual circumstances may not be reflected in the information gathered. 
And Ive seen what shes said about her personal circumstances at the time. But Lendable 
wouldnt have known this and bearing in mind what showed in the information gathered, I 
dont think that there was a need for Lendable to obtain the level of information Miss G has 
suggested it should have done. Ultimately, given the circumstances, it was entitled to rely on 
what Miss G said at the time.
Id also add that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a 
lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Lendable did anything wrong 
in deciding to lend to Miss G - it carried out proportionate checks even though its looks like 
the information it was provided with may not have told the whole story. Lendable reasonably 
relied on this information and given the amount of the repayments involved and its lack of 
previous history with Miss G, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lendable to provide these 
loans in this instance.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss G. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman