DRN-2671148
The complaint
Mr W complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a medical expenses claim 
he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W had an annual travel insurance policy, which renewed in May 2020. In November 
2020, Mr W planned to fly abroad as he was applying for citizenship of the country he was 
travelling to and expected to be interviewed as part of his application. At the time Mr W 
travelled, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) had advised against 
all but essential travel due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Mr W had sought assurance 
from the embassy of the country he was travelling to and his MP that he could legally travel. 
He was also granted a Visa by the country he was travelling to. Mr W travelled abroad as 
planned.
Unfortunately, while he was away, Mr W slipped and fell. He suffered an arm injury and was 
taken to hospital for treatment. He made a claim on his travel insurance policy for the 
medical expenses he incurred.
Great Lakes turned down Mr Ws claim. It said the policy specifically excluded any cover if a 
policyholder travelled to a country where the FCO had advised against all, or all but essential 
travel. 
Mr W was unhappy with Great Lakes decision. He felt hed provided evidence that hed 
been travelling for essential reasons and that hed done his best to act in line with 
government guidance.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. While he sympathised with 
Mr W, he felt the policy terms made it clear that Great Lakes wouldnt cover claims if a 
policyholder had travelled against FCDO advice. And he didnt think the reason for Mr Ws 
trip was unavoidable. So he felt it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down the claim.
Mr W disagreed. He felt Great Lakes had decided what and what wasnt an acceptable 
reason for travelling. At the time of his trip, the FCDO guidance had been simply guidance. 
Hed tried to comply with that guidance by getting in touch with the embassy and his MP. 
Hed taken all precautions both prior to travel and whilst abroad to avoid Covid-19. His injury 
and claim had had nothing to do with Covid-19. And he said exemptions were in place for 
travel at the time which he felt applied to his situation.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, I think it was fair for Great Lakes to turn 
down his claim. Ill explain why. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So in making my decision, Ive considered, 
amongst other things, the terms of Mr Ws policy and the circumstances of his claim, to 
decide whether Great Lakes treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the terms of Mr Ws policy, as these form the basis of his contract with 
Great Lakes. The Geographical Areas section of the policy lists the countries Great Lakes 
covers. This section also includes the following term:
We do not provide cover to those countries or parts of countries where the Foreign &
Commonwealth Office (FCO), or World Health Organisation (WHO) have advised against all, 
or all but essential travel.
The policy also includes a section of specific events Great Lakes doesnt cover. One of 
these says:
No section of this policy shall apply in respect of claims arising as a result of the following:
Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Foreign & Commonwealth
Office, or the World Health Organisation (WHO), or similar governing body have advised
against all, or all but essential travel.
Ive also noted that the policy certificate Great Lakes sent Mr W at renewal includes an 
information box relating to Covid-19. This box includes the following statement:
We can still cover you, but please be aware that if you are travelling against the advice of 
the Government or the Foreign & Commonwealth Office, you will not be able to make a 
claim. However, as soon as restrictions are lifted and the FCO removes the country from 
their list our normal policy benefits will resume.
I think Great Lakes policy documentation makes it clear that theres no cover whatsoever 
under the policy if a policyholder travels against FCDO (formerly FCO) advice. This was a 
commercial decision for Great Lakes to make and we wont generally tell insurers what risks 
they should and shouldnt insure.
So Ive gone on to think about whether it was fair for Great Lakes to rely on these terms to 
conclude that Mr Ws claim wasnt covered. Theres no dispute that at the time Mr W 
travelled abroad, the FCDO had advised against all but essential travel to his destination. So 
on a strict interpretation of the policy terms, its clear that Mr Ws claim isnt covered.
I appreciate Mr W sought advice from both his MP and from the embassy about whether 
travel would be permitted in his circumstances. I understand he took steps to try and reduce 
the risks of catching Covid-19. And I acknowledge that his claim wasnt related to Covid-19. 
But Ive borne in mind that the MPs office explained to Mr W that while there were 
exemptions for travelling for legal reasons - as they understood the trip to be - MPs didnt 
have authority to issue a dispensation for travel  they could only provide guidance based on 
their interpretation of the rules. And at that point, there was FCDO guidance in place advising against travel for non-essential reasons to the country Mr W was going to. And 
while Mr W was granted an entry Visa, I dont think this in itself is enough to show that his 
trip was unavoidable. Its clear the trip was important to Mr W, but I dont think theres 
enough evidence to suggest that his interview appointment couldnt have waited or been 
rearranged. On this basis, I dont think I could fairly direct Great Lakes to depart from its 
policy terms and pay Mr Ws claim.
Overall, I sympathise with Mr Ws position, because hes been left significantly out of pocket 
and he suffered a painful injury. But Mr W did travel at a time when the FCDO had advised 
against travel, which Great Lakes had excluded from cover. So I dont think it was unfair for 
Great Lakes to rely on its policy terms to turn down Mr Ws claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman