DRN-4082082
The complaint
Ms S says that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) will not refund a cash withdrawal 
she says she did not make.
What happened
Ms S holds a current account with Halifax. Shed recently been on holiday and when she 
returned she noticed a payment of £299.80 which she did not recognise  this was a cash 
withdrawal at an ATM in the town where Ms S had been staying on holiday.
Ms S flagged this transaction and Halifax investigated, but it decided not to refund the 
disputed payment. It didnt agree that there was evidence of fraudulent activity. It thought Ms 
S had authorised the withdrawal or made it herself. Halifax did though pay Ms S £40 to 
recognise some poor service shed received when she raised her complaint.
As Ms S didnt agree with Halifaxs decision, she asked us to investigate.
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, they 
explained that they felt there was evidence to suggest that Ms S had authorised the 
withdrawal or allowed it to be made.
Ms S asked for the answer to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the Investigator previously set out.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Ms S is responsible for any payments that she has authorised (either by making them herself 
or allowing someone else to) and she isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. So, I 
think the key question here is whether Halifax has acted fairly in concluding that Ms S did 
authorise the disputed withdrawals.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that MS Ss genuine card and PIN, were 
used to make the disputed withdrawal. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable Halifax to hold her liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Ms S consented to the 
withdrawal being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax to conclude that Ms S 
authorised the withdrawal. Ms S has said she did not share her PIN with anyone and did not 
notice her card was missing at any stage. She used the card both before and after the 
disputed withdrawal. So there is no clear way that a third party could have got hold of Ms Ss 
card  and then returned it to her after using it  or been able to work out her PIN. And I also 
note here that Halifax has said there were no incorrect PIN attempts when the withdrawal 
was made, so evidently whoever made the withdrawal did know Ms Ss PIN.
Ms S has provided evidence of her movements on the day in question, but I dont consider 
that evidence proves she did not make the withdrawal or allow it to be made. The evidence 
shows the movements of Ms Ss phone, but it is not a definitive or reliable record of 
everything she did that day. And the ATM that was used was in the same general area that 
Ms S was staying.
So with everything Ive seen, I consider it is more likely than not that Ms S did authorise this 
withdrawal  or otherwise allow it to be made  and it follows that I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Halifax to refuse to refund it to her. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Ms S, but I wont be asking Halifax to refund the 
disputed payment to her, and I am satisfied that the £40 it has already paid is fair 
compensation for any service issues she experienced in raising her complaint with Halifax
.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman