DRN-2309343
The complaint
Mr D complains that Markel International Insurance Company Limited cancelled his business 
protection insurance policy and refused to cover a claim on the policy 
What happened
Mr D is a sole trader providing architectural and structural services. He had an insurance 
policy with Markel providing cover for professional liability, which was arranged through a 
broker. In late 2018 Mr Ds broker contacted Markel on his behalf about a dispute with one of 
his clients. After considering this, Markel had some questions about the nature of Mr Ds 
work  in particular asking whether he was an architect or a structural engineer. Markel 
asked the broker to get more information about some of Mr Ds contracts.
When it received the information, Markel said the nature of Mr Ds work meant that he was a 
structural engineer and it wouldnt be able to offer cover for him. Mr D was asked to find a 
policy with another insurer. Markel said it would continue to cover him while he did this. Mr D 
was able to find a policy with another provider. Markel then cancelled the policy with effect 
from 14 February 2019 and refunded some of his premiums.
Mr D contacted Markel to make a claim on the policy as hed received a letter of claim from 
his client. Markel said it couldnt accept the claim as it was made after the policy had ended. 
So Mr D complained to Markel and then to this service. Hes been supported in his complaint 
by his solicitors
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Mr D had failed to give a fair 
presentation of the risk and Markel had shown that, if it had known the correct position, it 
would not have agreed to provide insurance for him. So she said it was fair for Markel to void 
the policy, and if the policy was void then it never existed, so Markel could refuse cover for 
the claim Mr D wanted to make. Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision saying I did not intend to uphold the complaint, for the 
following reasons:
Mr D originally took out cover with Markel in 2015 and then renewed it in the following years. 
At each renewal he was entering into a new contract. The most recent renewal was in 2018.
Under the law when the policy started in 2015 (the Marine Insurance Act 1906) Mr D had a 
duty of utmost good faith  meaning he was required to disclose every circumstance he 
knew, or should have known, which would influence an insurer in deciding whether to 
underwrite a risk or what premium to charge. For all the subsequent renewals the relevant 
law was the Insurance Act 2015, under which Mr D had a duty to give a fair presentation of 
the risk when he took out the policy. That meant he had to disclose either:
everything he knew, or ought to have known, that would influence the judgment of an 
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms; or
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needed to make further 
enquiries about potentially material circumstances.
The Insurance Act says the policyholder ought to know what should reasonably have been 
revealed by a reasonable search of information available to them. So they should take 
reasonable steps to check any information available to them and consider if theres anything 
they ought to disclose.
The duties under the two Acts are defined differently but in broad terms they both require a 
customer to disclose any relevant information that would influence the insurers decision.
When he took out his policy, and each renewal, Mr D was asked to provide information 
about his work, and was provided with a copy of a Risk Profile with a summary of this. That 
document set out his duties and asked him to check the accuracy of the information hed 
provided. He needed to take reasonable care to ensure that, when he provided this 
information and confirmed it was correct, he had disclosed everything he knew that would 
influence Markels decision or, alternatively, enough information to put it on notice it needed 
to make further enquiries.
Mr D says the information he gave was accurate. In particular, he refers to the fact he was 
asked to confirm that hes not a civil/structural engineer. He says he answered that correctly 
as hes not a qualified engineer. That may strictly be true. But he was also asked to confirm 
he acts purely as a professional consultant and does not undertake any construction work, 
including as a design and build contractor. And the information provided later showed that he 
undertook structural services.
Mr Ds solicitors argue that he provided information through the broker, the broker was 
aware of the nature of his work, and Markel couldnt claim not to know that someone who 
provides architectural services would also provide structural services. Mr D has also 
complained about the broker. Im considering that complaint separately, to decide whether 
the broker was at fault. As far as But Markel is concerned, it has explained that although the 
policy provides cover for professionals, including architects and someone providing building 
services, its standard approach is to decline civil & structural engineers.
While it may agree to cover an engineer who only provides professional consultancy 
services, it wont cover them if their work involves stand-alone works or design and build 
contracts with a civil or structural component. Markel says the information provided by Mr 
Ds broker showed he was carrying out this type of work.
Mr D disputes this. But the information about his contracts does seem to support Markels 
view. And Ive listened to a recording of a call Mr D had with the broker where hes asked 
about his work and he confirms that he does structural engineering. The call related 
specifically to the question in the proposal where he was asked to confirm he is not an 
engineer, which he had answered Yes. When Mr D confirmed he does engineering, the call 
handler said he would change that answer to No. Mr D didnt dispute that.
I appreciate the policy is described as being for architects/engineers. Mr D thought this 
meant he would be covered. But as Ive said, it may cover an engineer providing only 
professional consultancy services  not one who carries out design and build contracts or 
structural work. And while Mr D provides architectural and engineering services he does, by 
his own admission, carrying out structural engineering.
The key point is whether he took reasonable care to provide all the information he should 
have and, if he didnt, what Markel would have done, had it been given the correct 
information. Im satisfied Mr D didnt take reasonable care to give a fair presentation of the 
risk. And Markel has confirmed that if the correct information had been disclosed, it would 
not have provided cover for Mr D.In these circumstances it has the right to void the policy  in other words, treat it as if it never 
existed. But Markel didnt do that. Instead, it agreed to continue providing cover for Mr D for 
a short period, while he found a new policy with another insurer. Taking into account the 
circumstances, I think that was fair.
As the policy was no longer in force when Mr D made his claim, Markel wouldnt provide 
cover for that claim. Thats because it was a claims made policy. With this type of policy 
cover is only provided where a claim is made while the policy is in force. Mr Ds solicitors 
have questioned this. They argue that refusing cover for something that happened while the 
policy was in force, but only notified after the event, is illogical, and if someone changes 
insurer between an event occurring and a claim being made, it cant be right that theres no 
cover even though the policyholder had had insurance in place. But its not unusual to have 
claims made policies such as this, where cover is only provided if the claim is made while 
the policy is still in place. Under the policy terms, if a claim is made after the period of 
insurance ends, theres no cover.
I dont have details of the insurance Mr D had in place after this policy ended and whether it 
would cover his claim. But the starting point for this type of policy is that claims must be 
made during the policy period to be covered. That didnt happen here. I can only consider 
this complaint on the evidence before me and in the circumstance here, Markel was entitled 
to refuse cover where the claim was made after the policy ended.
Taking account of the relevant law, the policy terms and all the circumstances, in particular 
that Markel could have voided the policy, in my judgment the way it dealt with the matter was 
fair. 
Replies to the provisional decision 
Markel has not provided further comments in reply to the provisional decision but Mr Ds 
solicitors have commented. In summary, they say:
The provisional decision suggests Mr D first bought insurance through the broker in 
2015, but it was in fact 2010, when it sold him a policy with another insurer.
The broker then introduced Mr D to a second insurer in 2014. The information from 
that sale set out that he needed architectural and structural cover and the policy 
documents said he carried out architectural and engineering services.
So the broker was always aware of the nature of the services Mr D provided.
Markel did not ask Mr D to provide details of the type of work he carried out when 
setting up this policy; it just took and used the information the broker provided. Mr D 
had no choice but to assume the relevant information had been passed on to the 
insurer.
Mr D was asked whether he was an engineer and answered that question correctly. If 
hed been asked Do you provide engineering services? he would of course have 
said Yes.
Over the years Mr D had always spelt out exactly what work and services he 
provides and its very upsetting that despite doing this, he was denied cover when he 
needed it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ds solicitors say the provisional decision incorrectly says Mr D only had insurance 
through the brokers from 2015 when hed bought insurance through them since 2010. I appreciate he had had cover before 2010, but that was with different insurers. He first 
obtained cover with Markel in 2015 and then renewed this policy in the following years. Ive 
considered the information about his earlier policies, though in this complaint my focus is on 
the information provided for the sale and renewal of this policy.
I accept Mr D had said he needed architectural and structural cover, and had said he carried 
out architectural services. As I explained in the provisional decision, the policy did provide 
cover for services like this, where they are provided as consultancy services  but not if the 
work involves standalone works or design and build contracts with a civil or structural 
component. When Mr D said he wasnt an engineer that was, strictly, true. But that wasnt 
the only question asked. He was also asked to confirm that he acts purely as a professional 
consultant and does not undertake any construction work, including as a design and build 
contractor. So Markel did ask for information about the type of work he did. 
I agree Markel took and used the information received from the broker, and that was the 
information the broker had received from Mr D. But the information hed provided about this 
wasnt accurate.
Ive considered the additional comments carefully but I dont think they provide any new 
information that leads me to change my provisional decision. Im satisfied the information 
Mr D provided wasnt accurate and, if it had been, Markel would not have offered cover. So it 
could have voided the policy. Instead, it chose to cancel. As explained in the provisional 
decision, that meant the claim Mr D wanted to make wasnt covered, as he didnt make that 
claim while the policy was still providing cover, which is required for a claims made policy. 
So it remains my view that the complaint should not be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman