DRN-3588081
The complaint
Mr F complains that Cofunds Limited failed to fully acknowledge its responsibility for financial 
loss due to delays during the process of arranging an ISA transfer from a third party. He is 
unhappy that compensation Cofunds has paid him is insufficient redress overall as it doesnt 
take into account investment loss arising from a further period of delay Cofunds says it 
wasnt responsible for.
What happened
On 23 December 2020, Cofunds received Mr Fs ISA transfer request authority enabling 
Cofunds to request transfer of his cash ISA from a third party to Cofunds. The transfer to 
Cofunds completed on 24 February 2021 and on 25 February 2021 Cofunds invested the 
money, applying the cash towards acquisition of assets, in line with Mr Fs instructions.
Mr F complained to Cofunds that hed been financially disadvantaged as a result of how long 
the transfer had taken. There was an exchange of correspondence. Cofunds partly upheld 
Mr Fs complaint. It apologised for the level of service it had provided to Mr F and the 
inconvenience hed been caused as a result of Cofunds failure to handle his transfer request 
within its normal timescales. Mr F had asked Cofunds to correct his position backdated to 
1 February 2021. Cofunds said it wasnt accountable for any delays after 11 January 2021, 
when it sent the transfer request to the third party. Cofunds paid £408.71 to Mr Fs ISA 
wrapper in respect of investment loss. It also paid him £500 compensation to reflect 
shortcomings in the service it had provided in connection with this complaint and also two 
other complaints Mr F had raised with Cofunds (which I am not considering here). 
Mr F didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things. Mr F calculated he made a loss of 
around £866 compared to the position he would have been in if his funds had been invested 
on 1 February 2021, the date he feels its reasonable to say Cofunds should have been able 
to invest had it handled the matter without avoidable delay. 
Mr F brought his complaint to us and one of our investigators looked into what happened.  
Our investigator felt that Cofunds hadnt shown that it sent the transfer request on 
11 January and that it was fair and reasonable to expect Cofunds to compensate Mr Fs ISA 
account so that his holdings represent the value he would now have if the funds had been 
invested on 1 February 2021.
Mr F agreed with the investigator.
Cofunds disagreed with our investigator asked for an ombudsman to consider and review 
this complaint - so it comes to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain my 
approach and how I've reached my decision.
Cofunds has already partly upheld Mr Fs complaint and made payments to Mr F to reflect 
financial loss as well as distress and inconvenience. But this didnt include taking into 
account the period of delay between 11 January, when Cofunds said it posted the transfer 
request to the third party and 15 February, when it emailed the transfer request to the third 
party. Cofunds said it isnt responsible for third party delays and its transfer process 
doesnt include chasing up transfer requests.
The crux of Mr Fs complaint is that Cofunds could and should have done more to follow 
up the initial transfer request and, had it done so, the matter ought to have completed by 
1 February at the latest. He wants additional redress to cover the investment loss suffered 
as a result. 
It seems to be accepted by everyone that the transfer ran its proper course after 
15 February and was concluded within normal timescales from that point. 
So, Im mainly concentrating in my decision on the extent of any liability on Cofunds part 
for what happened between 11 January and 15 February 2021. 
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely on a balance 
of probabilities. This can mean making some reasonable assumptions where theres only 
limited information. And I must be impartial. Theres more information on our website which 
explains the Financial Ombudsman Service approach.
I've taken into account that Cofunds has consistently said it posted the original transfer 
request to the third party on 11 January 2021.Unfortunately, it has proved difficult for 
Cofunds to provide enough evidence to show that this actually happened. Checks made with 
the third party show no such communication was received from Cofunds. I have no good 
reason to question the reliability of that information. The third party actioned the transfer 
request promptly upon receipt of Cofunds emailed authority sent on 15 February so its likely 
that it would have actioned any earlier transfer authority it had received. 
Ive also considered the possibility that the original transfer authority might have been 
successfully despatched by Cofunds and was lost in the post. But Cofunds hasnt told me 
that it was ever received back through the returned mail system so, on balance, that seems 
less likely to me to have been what happened. 
Based on everything I've seen and been told, I find that its most likely that Cofunds mail 
system did not successfully despatch the original transfer authority to the third party on 
11 January 2021 when Cofunds thought this had happened.
It would make no significant overall difference to the outcome of my decision even if it had 
successfully posted the transfer authority when it thought it had. In view of the admitted 
delays and service failings up to that point, acknowledged by Cofunds and in respect of 
which it has apologised and paid redress, I think the onus was on Cofunds to actively take 
steps to limit further avoidable delay. 
Theres an expectation that ISA transfers should generally complete within 30 days or so 
and it is good industry practice for the acquiring provider to check with the old provider if 
nothing is heard within 10 days. Mr F had given Cofunds his ISA transfer request authority 
on 23 December 2020 and Cofunds has said it should have written out to request the 
transfer by 29 December. Not only did this not happen, Cofunds said there were also 
administration errors. So the fact alone that its transfer process didnt include following up transfer requests isnt a reason for me not to uphold this complaint. I am looking at what its 
fair and reasonable to expect Cofunds to have done in this particular situation. 
Even allowing for seasonal holiday dates, I think Mr F was reasonably entitled to expect 
Cofunds to have completed matters by the end of January 2021. For this reason, especially 
as it was responsible for not having actioned the request as promptly as it should have done, 
I find Cofunds ought fairly and reasonably to have realised it needed to monitor the progress 
of this transfer request closely when it was clear it was taking longer than it should. The 
transfer was done with reasonable expedition once Cofunds emailed the third party on 
15 February when prompted to do so by Mr Fs phone call a few days earlier. 
This leads me to conclude that Cofunds could have prevented delays arising if it had done 
more to keep on top of what was happening after 11 January. For instance, by sending email 
notification to the third party to confirm it was posting the transfer request and/or checking 
that the transfer it thought had been sent was safely received by the third party  sensible, 
quick, simple and easy steps to take. For these reasons, I find Cofunds should pay Mr F 
redress to reflect the delay between 11 January and 15 February which was avoidable had it 
acted fairly and reasonably when handling his ISA transfer.
I've carefully taken into account the frustration and worry Mr F undoubtedly experienced as a 
result of Cofundss service failings and the extra trouble he was put to having to chase things 
up in order to progress the transfer. It isnt clear exactly what proportion of the £500 redress 
Cofunds has already paid is specifically intended to provide redress for this particular 
complaint. But overall, it is a substantial sum, Mr F hasnt said hes unhappy with it and 
I think its sufficient, broadly speaking, to adequately reflect the worry and inconvenience 
Mr F experienced as the result of Cofunds failure to process his transfer authority until his 
ISA money was received by Cofunds on 22 February and the transfer successfully 
completed within the next few days.
Cofunds also needs to take steps to put things right in terms of investment loss. Mr F 
invested his funds on 25 February 2021 when his cash ISA transfer completed. I have found 
that Mr F was fairly and reasonably entitled to expect this transfer should have been 
completed by 1 February 2021  and had that happened, I find he would have invested then 
if hed been in a position to do so. 
So, to put things right, Cofunds should work out and pay Mr F further compensation as 
necessary to put him in the position he would be in now if hed been able to carry out his 
planned investment on that date.
 
Putting things right
Cofunds should compensate Mr Fs ISA account so that his holdings represent the value he 
would now have if the funds had been invested on 1 February 2021. Cofunds should set out 
its workings in a way thats understandable and show Mr F how it has made its calculations. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Cofunds Limited to pay Mr F as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman