DRN-3501665
The complaint
Mr M complains that Scottish Equitable Plc trading as AEGON have made numerous 
mistakes in its administration of his personal pension, causing him to suffer a loss.
What happened
Mr M took out a personal pension in 1986 and made regular contributions. His policy had a 
waiver of premium benefit. And in 1996, Mr M unfortunately needed to make a claim against 
this benefit because of a medical condition.
Scottish Equitable accepted Mr Ms claim in 1998 and paid the missed premium payments 
into Mr Ms pension fund in line with the policy.
Mr M has complained about a number of issues in the way that Scottish Equitable have 
administered his policy since his claim for waiver of premiums. He has raised these issues 
with Scottish Equitable in a number of separate complaints. 
Scottish Equitable issued a number of responses to the separate complaints, that I wont list 
in any detail here as both parties are familiar with the issues. These have offered 
explanations on a number of issues for Mr M as well as identifying certain failings and 
offering to put things right. In summary Scottish Equitable have:
Acknowledged errors in the application of premiums under the waiver of premium 
benefit. And say have put those right for Mr M.
Agreed that Mr M hadnt been sent annual statements for over 20 years, and 
apologised for the error.
Scottish Equitables offer of compensation to Mr M increased over the course of its complaint 
handling, finishing at £1,500, cumulatively for the mistakes it identified and the service hed 
received.
Mr M remained unhappy with Scottish Equitables response and brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator summarised Mr Ms concerns as:
Changes to his pension over the lifetime of the product have left the policy unsuitable 
for him.
Poor administration of the policy and the closure of specific with-profit funds that 
were initially the investment choices have adversely affected the performance of his 
pension.
Hidden administration charges impacting his pension fund causing his fund to erode 
once contributions stop.
Absence of annual statements which has impacted his ability to review the 
performance of his pension.
Uncertainty that the premiums have been properly applied from his waiver of 
premium cover.
The fairness in the way that the annuity is now being provided through a third-party 
insurer.
The low offer of compensation from Scottish Equitable.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and thought that Scottish Equitable had 
offered to put things right in a fair way. So didnt ask them to do anything else.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider the case.
I looked into the circumstances and requested further information from Scottish Equitable 
about discrepancies in the annuity quotes that Mr M had been provided. Scottish Equitable 
explained that Mr M had been sent a quote in September 2020 of £22,835.23 that had been 
based on an incorrect date of birth. Scottish Equitable explained that was caused by human 
error, but it meant that the annuity quote was higher than his policy actually entitled him to. 
Our investigator considered this additional information and issued a further opinion on how 
this information changed his view of a fair outcome. He explained that he thought that the 
compensation should be increased to reflect the loss in expectation that Mr M suffered as a 
consequence of this specific mistake. He suggested that Scottish Equitable pay an additional 
£400. Taking the total compensation payable to Mr M, for the distress and inconvenience of 
all of the issues identified, to £1,900.
Mr M remained unhappy and still wanted an ombudsman to decide on a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr M that Ive read all of the submissions hes made. There has been a 
lot to consider in this case, with a great deal of correspondence. But I would explain that our 
service is intended to provide informal resolutions to disputes, as an alternative to the courts. 
In delivering my finding I will give my decision based on what I believe to be the crux of the 
matter. I may not address every single point that Mr M has raised. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to Mr M. I have deliberately set out to address the issues in so much as theyre 
relevant to my findings.
Errors in applying premiums
I can see that Mr M has been affected by mistakes that he has identified. And our role is to 
decide whether he has been treated fairly by Scottish Equitable. And where I find that he 
hasnt, I need to decide the fairest way to put Mr M back into the position hed have been but 
for the mistakes.
In this case, I believe that Scottish Equitable have tried to investigate and address Mr Ms 
concerns over a long period of time. Scottish Equitable have admitted to errors in response 
to a complaint in 2011 that identified missing premiums under the waiver of premium cover. And later issues in the renewal of the premiums. Which I think has undermined Mr Ms trust 
in Scottish Equitable leading to his concerns on the many other issues.
In response to identifying an error, I would expect Scottish Equitable to rectify the mistake so 
that Mr M was returned to the position hed have been if it hadnt happened. Which I think it 
has done. 
Scottish Equitable explained the way that it made up the missing policy premiums to Mr M, a 
number of times in different response letters. I dont intend to repeat all of what 
Scottish Equitable have already explained. I would instead like to reassure Mr M that the 
way in which Scottish Equitable put this right was in line with what I would expect to see. His 
pension is a with-profits fund, so his premiums, even though applied retrospectively, were 
correctly used to purchase the correct number of units based on the unit price on the 28th of 
each month. Scottish Equitable have explained why and how they have done this. I 
understand that Mr M remains sceptical, but Ive seen no evidence that caused me to think 
that Scottish Equitable havent put things right correctly. In respect of this issue I cannot 
identify any loss that Mr M still suffers.
I note that Mr M seems to have additionally disputed the fairness of his waiver of premiums 
stopping when he reached age 60. Scottish Equitable have explained that was always a 
feature of the cover in the terms and conditions. They provided a copy of this. In Part II it 
said:
Benefit Period means a continuous period of incapacity in any Policy Year, 
commencing not earlier than the first anniversary of the date of commencement, and 
excluding.. (ii) any period of incapacity after the members sixtieth birthday or the 
Assumed Retirement Date if earlier.
Which I think shows that the way that Scottish Equitable applied the waiver of premiums 
was in line with the policy. And I think it was fair and reasonable of Scottish Equitable to rely 
on those terms in determining how the benefit should be paid. Even though Mr M had an 
Assumed Retirement Date of 70 on his policy, that didnt extend the period of cover for the 
waiver of premium benefit.
The impact of missing annual statements
Scottish Equitable also failed to provide Mr M with annual statements for his pension for a 
period of over 20 years. It has explained the error that led to this. It has taken full 
responsibility and apologised to Mr M. Mr M has argued that this mistake meant that he was 
unable to monitor the performance of his pension. And says that hed have been able to see 
that the performance was poor and he could have selected different funds.
Ive considered whether it would be reasonable for me to conclude that Mr M suffered a loss 
because of the lack of statements. Mr M wasnt in a position to vary the contributions that he 
made to this policy whilst his premiums were being paid by the waiver benefit. So he couldnt 
adjust his contributions in response to performance concerns. And I think it also made it 
unlikely that hed have moved his pension to another provider, irrespective of what the 
statements showed.
Ive considered whether its more likely than not that Mr M would have moved funds in 
response to performance concerns. Whilst Mr M wasnt receiving annual statements, he was 
in touch with Scottish Equitable in order to resolve concerns he made. In 2011 for example 
he identified missing premiums that he complained about. He was made aware in 2016/17 
that Scottish Equitable were exiting the annuity market, explaining what this would mean for 
him. I think that the correspondence makes it clear that Mr M was aware of this pension policy 
and the importance of it to him. I agree that he should have received annual statements as a 
matter of course. But I would also expect reasonable actions to be taken to mitigate a loss 
where a consumer was concerned one existed. Mr M could have easily obtained valuations 
for his pension and taken a more active interest had he wished. He could have sought 
financial advice. But he didnt. So I dont think that, on balance, I can say that the receipt of 
annual statements would have caused Mr M to take any specific action that wasnt already 
available to him anyway.
Incorrect annuity quotes
Mr M was understandably concerned about the discrepancy between a quoted annuity he 
received from Scottish Equitable in September 2020 for £22,835 and a quote in December 
2020 for £16,628. This has now been explained as being caused by human error in 
December when Mr Ms date of birth was entered incorrectly. Which would have had a big 
effect on the annuity quote.
I accept that this was caused by a mistake. And as a general principle, I cant ask 
Scottish Equitable to honour an annuity quote that Mr M was never entitled to. I understand 
Mr Ms annoyance. Annuity calculations are complex, so I dont think that he could 
reasonably have been expected to know that the illustration he received in December 2020 
was wrong. But Scottish Equitable are entitled to correct that mistake.
I understand that Mr M doesnt accept that Scottish Equitable shouldnt pay the higher figure. 
But it was never the annuity that he was actually entitled to receive at that time. So he hasnt 
actually suffered a loss in not receiving it. It may feel like that to him because his 
expectations would have been raised by the illustration until he received the later one. In 
upholding this element of his complaint, I will later consider the impact of the raised 
expectation when determining what Scottish Equitable should do to put things right. 
Mr Ms other concerns
It is not my intention to minimise the significance of Mr Ms remaining concerns by dealing 
with them collectively here. I understand that he is frustrated by the issues he has identified. 
And this has, not unreasonably, caused him to question a number of other areas.
Ive considered all of these and have identified no other areas of complaint that I will be 
upholding. Ill summarise below.
Mr M has asserted that his pension was mis sold. His expectation seems to have been that 
his policy would have remained the same throughout its term. And it is clear that in certain 
regards it has changed. But I dont think that the things hes identified are examples of unfair 
practices by Scottish Equitable. 
Our investigator explained to Mr M that Scottish Equitable werent responsible for the sale of 
this pension to Mr M. This has also been explained by Scottish Equitable. It is a simple 
matter of fact. Scottish Equitable didnt provide the advice that led to Mr M taking out the 
policy. So I will make no finding on this pensions suitability for Mr M. In regard to this 
pension, Scottish Equitable can only be held accountable for the way it has administered the 
policy for Mr M.
Mr M has argued that he has suffered a loss in the region of £80,000 because 
Scottish Equitable discontinued the with profits he was invested in initially. These were the 
WPE fund that was closed in 1996 and the WP2 fund that was closed in 2002. He says 
theyd performed at a higher level than the funds he was moved into. And he extrapolated the performance of those funds, assuming that they continued to perform at their previous 
levels as a comparison. 
But, the terms and conditions of Mr Ms pension didnt guarantee access to a particular fund 
or that funds wouldnt close or be discontinued. The terms and conditions for this pension 
said in section I.8.3:
The managed fund company has the right to close an investment fund by giving not 
less than three months notice. No further subscriptions may be made to a fund which 
is closed but it shall remain in being until it is wound up or the last of its units is 
cancelled.
I think that Scottish Equitable were clearly entitled to make the changes to the with-profits 
funds that Mr M started out invested in. And Im unconvinced by the argument that the pre 
1996 and 2002 performance of the WPE and WP2 funds in any way guaranteed that theyd 
continue to perform at that level subsequently. So dont agree that Mr Ms estimate of an 
£80,000 loss is fair or reasonable. 
Mr M has expressed concern about the fact that he is no longer able to obtain an annuity 
through Scottish Equitable. I accept that would have most likely been Mr Ms expectation 
when he started this policy in 1986. But when Scottish Equitable made the decision to 
withdraw from the annuity market it had to consider the impact on its customers. There was 
regulatory oversight. It put in place alternative provision with a third party provider who would 
provide an annuity using the guaranteed annuity rates (GAR) that Mr M had. I cant see that 
this will have financially disadvantaged Mr M at all. He is still entitled to the same guaranteed 
rates that his policy always included. Only the annuity provider has changed.
Mr M has complained that his choice of pension provider has been removed by this. But I 
dont really agree. Mr M has all of the same options that would always have existed. He is 
entitled to transfer his pension or explore open market annuity options. But these choices 
would most likely result in his losing access to the GAR. And this would always have been 
the case, even if Scottish Equitable were still in the business of providing annuities. I dont 
think that what has happened has treated Mr M in an unfair or unreasonable way.
Ive seen that in Mr Ms most recent response to our investigator he asked why the 
Guarantee Terminal bonus of his with profits fund has reduced. Which is a new question that 
he hadnt brought to our service in his original complaint. In the interests of trying to bring a 
final resolution to this matter for both parties I will comment briefly on this. This matter seems 
connected to Mr Ms general misunderstanding regarding the way his with-profits funds 
work. I can see that Scottish Equitable have offered repeated explanations to Mr M 
regarding the mechanics of this type of product. And have referred him to other information. I 
dont intend to attempt to further explain this. That isnt the role of our service. The terminal 
bonus on Mr Ms pension fund is not a guaranteed thing and is not protected like he 
suggests.
Putting things right
Ive considered this very carefully as I understand its a significant source of dispute for 
Mr M.
Ive noted Scottish Equitables acceptance of certain failings and the fact that theyve put 
things right in such a way that I dont believe that Mr M has now suffered any financial 
detriment. Including, as Ive said, regarding the mistake made in sending out an incorrect 
annuity illustration.Mr M has brought all of these matters to us as a single complaint, rather than as the 
individual issues at the times that Scottish Equitable responded to them. So I think its 
appropriate now for me to consider the distress and inconvenience as a whole. 
Mr M was undoubtedly caused inconvenience in having to correspond with 
Scottish Equitable about missing premium payments on his policy. It involved time and effort 
and its apparent from his correspondence that he was upset. But he was still some time 
from taking his benefits when these issues were resolved. He has had to wait, sometimes 
unreasonable periods for responses to his complaints. And whilst complaint handling alone 
is not something our service would normally judge a business on, Scottish Equitable have 
acknowledged and offered increased compensation for that service. It settled eventually on a 
cumulative award of £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience. Which I agree was fair, and 
in line with what Id consider awarding at the point the complaint was brought to us.
But I agree with our investigators view that the offer didnt reflect the additional distress 
caused in raising Mr Ms expectations regarding his potential annuity payment. This will have 
been impactive. Ive considered how long the raised expectation was in place in assessing 
the impact. The incorrect quote was provided on 29 September 2020 and the next quote on 
7 December 2020 made Mr M aware that his annuity may not be as high as hed been told. 
So Mr Ms expectation was raised for just under six weeks. I think that Scottish Equitable 
should increase its compensation by £400 to account for the specific distress caused by this 
mistake.
For the above reasons, I think that Scottish Equitable should pay Mr M a total of £1,900 for 
the trouble and upset caused by the above identified failings.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Mr Ms complaint in parts. And direct Scottish Equitable Plc 
trading as AEGON to pay him £1,900 for the distress and inconvenience its failings caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman