DRN-4315845
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) declined a 
number of his attempts to transfer balances on his account.
What happened
In January 2023, Mr R attempted to transfer balances between his credit cards but was 
unable to do so. Mr R contacted Halifax to find out why his attempts to transfer balances 
could not be completed. However, after speaking with Halifaxs fraud team, he was asked to 
attend branch with ID to get a block removed from his account. 
Unhappy with this, Mr R complained to Halifax. Mr R said he was unhappy with how long he 
was kept on the phone to try and resolve this matter and said that Halifax had been cruel to 
him. He said that this issue had led to him having to pay higher amounts of interest on the 
amounts he wanted to transfer. 
Halifax issued a final response letter, and it didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It acknowledged 
that call wait times to speak to different departments were higher than it would have liked 
and its working on reducing wait times. Halifax explained that some transactions may be 
declined as part of its fraud prevention policies. However, it says that in most cases this is 
quickly and easily resolved by speaking with the account holder. Halifax confirmed that Mr R 
had spoken with its fraud team and had been made aware of what needed to be done to 
complete the next steps.
After Mr R referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, one of our 
investigators assessed the complaint and they did not uphold it. They confirmed that some of 
the transactions were declined as the wrong information had been entered. They also 
confirmed that theyd listened to Mr Rs conversation with Halifaxs fraud team, and they 
thought that Halifax had taken appropriate action. Because of this the investigator didnt 
think that Halifax should pay Mr R the increased amounts of interest he paid on the balance 
transfer amounts. They also didnt think that Halifax should reimburse Mr R for his call costs.
As Mr R disagreed with the investigators assessment, the complaint was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I dont uphold this complaint, for largely the same reasons that 
the investigator provided in their assessment. I will explain why.
I understand that Mr R attempted to make a number of balance transfers, but they were 
unsuccessful. Looking at the evidence that Halifax has provided, it does seem that Mr R had 
entered incorrect information on a number of occasions, which resulted in balance transfers 
being declined. So, I cant fairly say that Halifax was responsible for the transfers not being 
made.
Due to the continued difficulties that Mr R experienced, he called Halifax. Mr R was 
transferred through to Halifaxs fraud team. I have listened to calls he had with Halifax. Mr R 
says that Halifax was cruel towards him. However, apart from Mr R having to be on the 
phone for a while in an attempt to get matters resolved, I think that Halifax dealt with Mr R in 
a fair and reasonable manner. For example, I thought that Halifax treated Mr R respectfully 
and asked reasonable questions to try and resolve the issues that he was facing.
The result of Mr R speaking with Halifaxs fraud team was that a block was placed on his 
account. Mr R was asked to attend a Halifax branch with photo ID, so that the block could be 
removed from his account. 
In the circumstances, I dont think this is unreasonable. Halifax is required to have processes 
such as the one proposed in this case in place, to protect itself and its customers, including 
Mr R, from fraud. I recognise it mayve been inconvenient for Mr R to attend branch with 
photo ID and that he may not have been able to do so immediately after his telephone call. 
But I think the inconvenience caused in him having to attend branch to get the block lifted is 
reasonable, when compared to the impact that potentially fraudulent transactions could have 
on him. I say this especially as it seems that there had been recent transactions that had 
been confirmed to have been fraudulent, so I think it was fair for Halifax to act with added 
caution here.
It therefore follows that I dont think it would be appropriate that Halifax pay Mr R the higher 
amounts of interest that he was paying on the amounts he tried to transfer, nor the cost of 
his telephone calls.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman