DRN-2749409
The complaint
Mrs B complains that a car she obtained through a conditional sale agreement with 
Vauxhall Finance plc was not of satisfactory quality. She wants Vauxhall Finance to accept 
her rejection of the car.
What happened
Mrs B obtained a new car using a conditional sale agreement with Vauxhall Finance in 
June 2017. In December 2018, after shed driven around 28,000 miles, the engine 
management light came on. Repairs have been carried out, under warranty, as follows:
December 2018 Accelerator pedal replaced
January 2019 Clutch replaced
January 2020 Accelerator pedal replaced
In February 2020, the same fault occurred again, and Mrs B returned the car to the garage 
for repair. The car was returned to her in October 2020, with the accelerator pedal being 
replaced for the third time. In the meantime, shed complained to Vauxhall Finance and 
asked to reject the car. It didnt accept her request. It said, because the fault had occurred 
after shed had the car for six months, Mrs B needed to provide evidence to show that the 
fault wasnt due to wear and tear. It said the car was fit for purpose and of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied, and that the car had been repaired.
But within a few weeks of the latest repair, Mrs B said the engine management light came on 
again. She referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that it 
was unreasonable for Mrs B to experience the issues shed had with the car and that it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. She recommended Vauxhall Finance:
Allow Mrs B to reject the car and end the agreement with no cost.
Collect the vehicle without any cost to Mrs B.
Refund all repayments Mrs B made after 28 October 2020 to the date of the settlement, 
plus interest.
Remove any credit search relating to the agreement or mark this as settled on Mrs Bs 
credit file ensuring no adverse data is recorded.
Pay £250 compensation to recognise the trouble and upset the situation has caused. 
Vauxhall Finance didnt agree because of the length of time Mrs B had the car before a fault 
occurred. 
Recently  as the agreement is due to end in June this year  Mrs B received a letter from 
Vauxhall outlining her options. She was worried about incurring charges if she returned the 
car in non-working order. So she arranged for the car to be returned to the garage for a 
further repair. Shes told us that it has identified a fault with the accelerator pedal  so the 
same issue seems to still be present.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. Vauxhall Finance is the supplier of goods 
under this agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the 
quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I would have to 
be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are its age 
and mileage when it was supplied, and how long after supply the fault(s) materialised. 
The car in this case was brand-new when it was supplied. So its reasonable to expect it to 
be fault-free for a reasonable period of time. Mrs B first reported a fault around 18 months 
after the car had been supplied and after shed driven it around 28,000 miles. Whilst this is 
some time after the car was supplied, Ive not seen anything to suggest that the fault was 
due to wear and tear. This is supported by the fact that the repairs were carried out under 
the cars warranty.
Under the terms of the Consumer Rights Act, it was for Mrs B to evidence that the fault was 
present when the car was supplied, because the fault was first reported after six months of 
ownership. Whilst no independent inspection has been carried out, I think its reasonably 
clear - from the sequence of events outlined above and the failure to repair the fault  that 
the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. In coming to my conclusion Ive 
taken into account that the fault has required three new accelerator pedals and a new clutch. 
And, following the repair in October 2020, the fault remained. The garage has recently 
confirmed that there is still a fault with the accelerator pedal. So the repairs have not been 
successful. I dont think its reasonable to expect a new car to fail in this timescale and for 
repeated repair attempts by a reputable garage not to fix the problem. Taking all this into 
account I think its more likely than not that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
Putting things right
In the circumstances, I agree with our investigator that Vauxhall Finance should accept 
Mrs Bs rejection of the car and end the agreement with nothing further for her to pay. The 
paperwork shows she didnt pay a deposit. She hasnt had use of the car since 28 October 
2020, so all payments from this date should be refunded, plus any pro-rata refund from 28 October, plus interest. Mrs B didnt have use of her car from February to October 2020. But 
she was provided with a courtesy car. Its fair that she pays for the use she had of the 
courtesy car, but I think she should be compensated for the lack of enjoyment shes had of 
the car she ordered. I think its fair that Vauxhall Finance refund an additional two months 
payments to reflect this.
Mrs B should also be compensated for the trouble and upset this has caused. I agree with 
our investigator that £250 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
As noted above, Mrs B has recently returned the car to the garage. She was concerned she 
would be fined if her complaint was not upheld and she decided to return the car at the end 
of the agreement. I dont think it was unreasonable for her to take this action and I dont find 
that this makes a difference to the outcome here. But if the garage has charged Mrs B for 
any repairs, these should be reimbursed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Vauxhall Finance plc should:
1. Cancel the agreement with nothing further for Mrs B to pay.
2. Collect the car at no cost to Mrs B.
3. Refund all repayments Mrs B made after 28 October 2020 to the date of the settlement, 
plus any proportionate refund from 28 October to reflect that she hasnt had use of the 
car. The refund of the repayments should include 8% interest from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement. *
4. Pay Mrs B £844.78, being two months payments, to reflect her loss of enjoyment of the 
car.
5. Pay Mrs B £250 for the trouble and upset caused.
6. On receipt of evidence, reimburse Mrs B for any repair costs charged when she took the 
car to the garage in April 2021.
7. Mark the agreement as settled on Mrs Bs credit file or remove it altogether.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Vauxhall Finance plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Vauxhall Finance Plc must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman