DRN-2695432
The complaint
Mr D and Miss M complain that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited unfairly
declined a claim they made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D and Miss M hold a legal expenses insurance policy provided by DAS.
Mr D and Miss M made a claim on the policy. They said the findings from a dispute
resolution process indicated that a property theyd purchased had been mis-sold. They
sought cover under the policy to take legal action against the developer.
DAS declined cover for the claim. It said the policy hadnt been taken out until 2019,
whereas the purchase of the property had been in 2018. It said this was the event that gave
rise to the claim, and the policy didnt provide cover where the incident occurred before the
policy cover started.
Mr D and Miss M disputed this. They said theyd followed the rules about when to bring legal
proceedings, and that the mis-selling of the property hadnt been known about until after the
cover on the policy had started.
DAS rejected their complaint, so Mr D and Miss M referred their complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think DAS had done anything wrong. He said that his opinion was that
the incident giving rise to the claim was the sale of the property, which occurred before Mr D
and Miss M took out the policy. He also observed that for cover to be afforded for contract
disputes under the policy, the contract had to have been agreed during the period of
insurance. He concluded that in the circumstances, there was no cover on the policy.
Mr D and Miss M didnt accept this. They asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. I said:
The allegedly mis-sold property was purchased in 2018. The policy cover started in 2019.
Before bringing the claim with DAS, theyd pursued concerns with the property through a
dispute resolution process. Once that process was complete, a claim was made with DAS as
Mr D and Miss M wanted to take legal action against the developer.
The policy terms and conditions say that there is cover in place for contractual disputes
(subject to other terms and conditions) provided that you have entered into the agreement
or alleged agreement during the insurance period. Mr D and Miss M allege that they were
mis-sold the property, meaning that this matter can be safely categorised as a contractual
dispute. But they entered into the contract to purchase the property in 2018, and the policy
was taken out in 2019. So they didnt enter into the contract during the insurance period.
This means that the policy doesnt provide cover for this claim.
The policy terms also say there is cover as long as the date of occurrence of the insured
incident is during the insurance period. The date of occurrence is further defined as The
date of the event that leads to a claim. In addition, theres an exclusion in the policy which
says What we dont cover any incident or matter arising from the start of this section of
cover.
Mr D and Miss M say the date of the insured incident is after the policy cover began, when
the dispute resolution process had concluded. They make this argument for two reasons.
The first is that they were obliged, by Civil Procedure Rules, to initially pursue their concerns
through the dispute resolution process. And the second is that they werent aware until the
conclusion of that process that the property had been mis-sold.
DAS argument is that at the time of the alleged mis-sale, there was no cover in place on this
policy. The policy didnt exist when the property was purchased.
On a strict reading of the policy terms, the dispute wouldnt be covered. The event that led to
the claim was the alleged mis-sale. That happened before the policy started And the policy
terms are clear that theres no cover for an incident that happened before the start of the
policy.
But I have to consider whats fair and reasonable, taking into account all the circumstances.
So Ive thought about whether its fair to apply the terms strictly in Mr D and Miss Ms
circumstances.
I think its reasonable to assume that, when they purchased the property, Mr D and Miss M
wouldnt have had any reason to believe legal proceedings against the developer would be
necessary. So Im not satisfied that its fair to say that the incident leading to making the
claim is the purchase, or agreement to purchase, the property. Its more reasonable, I think,
to say that the incident which gives rise to the claim is when they would have had reason to
believe that legal proceedings might be required in order to resolve the dispute with the
developer.
But I think this still represents an issue for Mr D and Miss M in showing that cover should be
provided here. The evidence I have is that Mr D and Miss M referred their concerns to the
dispute resolution process in August 2019, with the policy theyre claiming under here
coming into force in September 2019.
What this means is that Im satisfied that Mr D and Miss M were aware of issues with the
property, and that legal proceedings against the developer may have been necessary,
before the policy cover was in effect. I know that Mr D and Miss M say that it wasnt until
after the conclusion of the dispute resolution process, and that they had to follow the dispute
resolution process before they could commence legal proceedings. That isnt disputed. But I
think its safe to conclude that they knew that they may need to take legal proceedings
against the developer before the policy cover existed. They were dissatisfied with the
developers actions and were seeking remedy for this through an independent arbitration
process. That to me is a clear indication that the possibility of legal action to achieve their
desired remedy had been considered, or could reasonably be foreseen.
I am satisfied that the event which led to the claim was the discovery of issues with it which
Mr D and Miss M held to be the responsibility of the developer which couldnt otherwise be
rectified without recourse to independent arbitration. And this was before the policy cover
was in place.
For these reasons, Im satisfied that DAS acted reasonably when it declined Mr D and Miss
Ms claim. Theyd entered into the contract and it was foreseeable that legal proceedings
could arise before the policy cover was in effect.The response to my provisional decision
Mr D and Miss M, and DAS responded to my provisional decision.
DAS said that while it agreed with the outcome, it believed my reasoning around when the 
incident giving rise to the claim was wrong. It maintained that the incident date was the date 
on which the property was purchased.
Mr D and Miss Ms disagreed with my provisional findings. In essence, their argument was 
that their claim was for negligence, not a breach of contract. And they said that they had no 
reason to believe that the property had been mis-sold until they received the decision from 
the dispute resolution process. They said as this was the basis for their claim then that 
decision should be considered the date of the incident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered all of the additional points made by Mr D and Miss M and DAS, but I 
dont think theres any reason to change my provisional decision.
I appreciate that Mr D and Miss M consider that theyre seeking to make a claim for 
negligence against the property developer. But, at heart, their claim is that the property was 
mis-sold. And so it follows that this is an alleged breach of contract. Ive set out my reasons 
previously why this claim for breach of contract wouldnt be covered.
Theres no cover for a dispute about a contract, if the contract was entered into before the 
policy started. And even without that, I remain satisfied that the date when legal proceedings 
in respect of the purchase of the property could reasonably be foreseen was before the 
policy came into force. I appreciate that Mr D and Miss M say that the specific basis for 
making the claim, the alleged mis-sale, was something they only became aware of when the 
decision from the dispute resolution service was received. But as Ive said before, the fact 
that theyd engaged the dispute resolution process indicates to me that legal proceedings 
against the developer were potentially anticipated. That was before the policy came into 
effect. 
I also cant agree with DAS position regarding the date of the incident. I dont intend to go 
into detail on this point, as Ive already covered why I dont think the date of the incident was 
the date of the property being purchased. I appreciate DAS comments on this, and its 
position, but I dont consider that theres anything which leads me to change my findings on 
this point.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman