DRN-2474404
The complaint
Ms T complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited mishandled her claim on her
motor insurance policy.
What happened
The vehicle Ms T later acquired had first been registered in April 2014. On 31 May 2019 it
passed an MOT test.
In late November 2019, Ms T acquired the vehicle from a dealership. In early December 
2019 she took out insurance. Ms T was the policyholder and her husband Mr T was named 
as a permitted driver.
Mulsanne was the insurer responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Mulsanne, I
include claims-handlers and others for whose actions I hold Mulsanne responsible.
On about 16 January 2020, Mr T reported that he had lost control of the vehicle and hit two
oncoming vehicles.
Ms T expected Mulsanne to repair her vehicle. It declined  saying Ms T knew the vehicle
had a fault but she hadnt fixed it. She complained to Mulsanne about that. Mulsanne wrote a
final response letter dated 3 March 2020 declining to deal with damage to her vehicle.
Unhappy with that, Ms T brought her complaint to us in early March 2020.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that
there was enough evidence for Mulsanne to suggest that Ms T drove the vehicle without
maintaining it in a safe and roadworthy condition. The investigator recommended that
Mulsanne should deal with the claim for damage to Ms Ts vehicle in line with the terms and
conditions of the policy.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms T 
and to Mulsanne on 4 December 2020. I summarise my findings:
Mulsanne had fallen short of identifying the vehicle fault and showing its effect on the 
roadworthiness of the vehicle and its safety in use.
Mulsanne treated Ms T unfairly by saying it wasnt prepared to deal with her claim for 
vehicle damage.
Subject to any further information from Ms T or from Mulsanne, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct Mulsanne Insurance 
Company Limited to:
1. meet Ms Ts claim without relying on the policy terms about roadworthiness, 
safeguarding and unsafeness of the vehicle quoted in this decision; and
2. to pay Ms T - in addition to such net sum it pays for the pre-accident value of the
vehicle less the policy excess  simple interest on that net sum at a yearly rate of 8%
from 3 March 2020 to the date of payment. If Mulsanne considers that HM Revenue
and Customs requires it to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Ms T
how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ms T agreed with the provisional decision. She says he acquired the vehicle on a hire 
purchase (HP) agreement - a copy of which she has sent us.
Mulsanne disagreed with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
It agrees to settle the claim.
Considering the length of time that has passed since 24 April when it objected to the 
investigators opinion on, 7 months interest is significant.
It is prepared to pay interest from the date of its final response letter 3rd March 2020 
to 1 month after its objection, that is to 24 May 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The MOT certificate is good evidence that the vehicle wasnt unroadworthy or unsafe in late
May 2019. Its not such good evidence thereafter.
From what Ms T has shown us recently, in late November 2019 she acquired the vehicle on 
HP. The HP agreement says the mileage was 67,000.
Ms T acquired the vehicle with a warranty from a warranty company. As a reminder, Im 
dealing with a complaint against the insurer, not a complaint against the HP company or the 
warranty company
From early December 2019, the policy terms included the following:
You or any permitted drivers are required to maintain the insured vehicle in a
roadworthy condition.
You or any person in charge of the insured vehicle are required to take all
reasonable care to safeguard it and its contents from loss or damage, for example
the car should not be left unlocked.
So Ms T had to maintain the vehicle in a roadworthy condition and safeguard it from
damage.
The policy had an exclusion as follows:
Section 4: General Exceptions
Excluded uses and excluded drivers
Any liability, loss or damage arising while the insured vehicle is being:
being driven in an unroadworthy, unsafe or damaged condition or where the vehicle
does not have an Department of Transport MOT if one is required by law
So the policy didnt cover driving the vehicle when it was unroadworthy or unsafe.
Within a week or so after she acquired it, Ms T saw a warning light on the dashboard saying
Charging system fault.
From her emails, I think Ms T contacted the warranty company. She also contacted two local 
garages each of which said there would be a charge for reviewing the vehicle.
She contacted the dealership about the warning light. Ms T told the dealership the fault was
intermittent and she had access to another vehicle she could drive. The dealership couldnt
book the vehicle in for review until 25 January 2020.
After the accident on 16 January 2020, Mr T reported that hed lost control of the vehicle.
Mulsanne instructed an investigator to interview Mr and Ms T. She signed a statement 
saying that the fault warning light in December had been accompanied by a loss of power. 
He signed a statement saying that  immediately before the accident  the fault had 
reappeared and there had been a loss of power.
Mulsanne also instructed a vehicle assessor. He inspected the vehicle and took some
photographs of the outside of the vehicle. He produced a report that the estimated cost of
repair made the vehicle a total loss.
The assessor estimated the mileage at 72,000 but he hadnt checked it. Subject to that he
said the pre-accident value of the vehicle had been £17,860.00.
His report doesnt say anything about the warning light. Ive seen an email in which the
assessor asked for details of the fault warning, but says that any fault warning would remain
recorded until cleared by a garage with the appropriate tool.
As he didnt photograph inside the car, note the recorded mileage or comment on the
warning light, I dont find it likely that the assessor had access to the vehicles computer.
His report doesnt identify any pre-accident fault that made the car unroadworthy. For
example, it doesnt say that there was a fault with the engine, the alternator, the electrical
system, the power-steering or the brakes.
And I consider that Mulsanne bears the burden of showing that Mr T drove the vehicle in an
unroadworthy, unsafe or damaged condition.
In my view Mr and Ms T shouldve done more to get the fault warning checked. And they
associated the fault warning with a loss of power and with the accident.
Nevertheless, I consider that Mulsanne has fallen short of identifying the vehicle fault and
showing its effect on the roadworthiness of the vehicle and its safety in use. So I find that 
Mulsanne treated Ms T unfairly by saying it wasnt prepared to deal with her
claim for vehicle damage. 
Putting things right
Ive thought about how Mulsanne should try to put Ms T in the financial position she 
shouldve been in if Mulsanne had dealt with her claim.Ive considered directing Mulsanne to pay Ms T £17,860.00 or the pre-accident value of the
vehicle. But I find it likely that the HP company owned the vehicle. I havent seen the policy
schedule stating the policy excess, I dont know its mileage and I dont know what has
happened to the damaged vehicle since the accident.
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct Mulsanne to meet Ms Ts claim without relying on the 
policy terms about roadworthiness, safeguarding and unsafeness of the vehicle quoted in 
this decision.
Ms T had access to another vehicle  the one usually used by Mr T. And hers was a write-
off. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Mulsanne to pay compensation for loss of
use of her vehicle.
But I find that Mulsanne has  by a decision Ive found unfair  caused Ms T extra distress 
and inconvenience at an already difficult time. Much of that is to do with not paying her claim 
promptly. I find that it shouldve paid her claim by the time it wrote its final response on 3 
March 2020. So I find it fair enough to direct Mulsanne to pay interest at our usual rate.
Mulsanne could and should have accepted the investigators opinion rather than raising an 
objection to it. Whilst months have passed since then, I dont see that as a reason for 
curtailing the period for which interest should run.
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Mulsanne to pay Ms T - in addition to such net sum it 
pays for the pre-accident value of the vehicle less the policy excess  simple interest on that 
net sum at a yearly rate of 8% from 3 March 2020 to the date of payment.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to: 
1. meet Ms Ts claim without relying on the policy terms about roadworthiness, 
safeguarding and unsafeness of the vehicle quoted in this decision; and
2. pay Ms T - in addition to such net sum it pays for the pre-accident value of the 
vehicle less the policy excess  simple interest on that net sum at a yearly rate of 8% 
from 3 March 2020 to the date of payment. If Mulsanne considers that HM Revenue 
and Customs requires it to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Ms T 
how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman