DRN-2032306
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy taken out in 
February 2004 to protect Mrs Rs mortgage. The MPPI was paid for by way of a monthly 
premium and provided a benefit of £250 in the event of unemployment or sickness or 
disability. Mrs R says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her the MPPI.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs R didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed to me  an ombudsman - to issue a final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
When selling the MPPI to Mrs R, Nationwide shouldve taken reasonable steps to make it 
clear the policy was optional. It also shouldve got Mrs Rs agreement to take it out. Mrs R 
says that the policy wasnt properly explained to her and she thought she had to have it. 
Nationwide hasnt been able to say how the MPPI was sold, but Mrs R says it was 
arranged during a meeting, so Ive relied on this. As the MPPI was arranged during a 
meeting I dont know what was discussed. So, Ive considered Mrs Rs comments 
alongside the information we have from the time of sale to decide what I think is more 
likely to have happened.
Nationwide has provided us with a copy of the mortgage application form which was 
completed. Looking at this it seems the mortgage was applied for in September 2003 and 
MPPI was not selected at this time. Nationwide has provided the MPPI application form and 
this was completed in February 2004. So, Mrs R had the mortgage in place before the 
MPPI was sold. Looking at the MPPI application form I can see it is entirely separate to the 
paperwork Mrs R completed for the mortgage. The form contains details of Mrs Rs 
personal circumstances and indicates a discussion took place about Mrs Rs requirements. 
Based on what we know about how MPPI was sold I wouldve expected the conversations 
with the representative to reflect the details within this form. And if Mrs R wasnt sure about 
the cover, I wouldve expected her to query it before agreeing to the cover and signing the 
application form. 
It also seems that Mrs R had a mortgage in place from September 2003 and it didnt 
have MPPI with it. This suggests she knew she could have borrowing with Nationwide 
without MPPI, and that it was a separate and optional product. 
So, based on the evidence Ive been provided, I think its most likely Mrs R knew at the time 
that the MPPI was optional and she decided to take it. But I can understand why she might 
not recall this now, as the sale took place many years ago. 
Ive also considered Mrs Rs comments that she felt pressured into taking out the
MPPI. But Mrs R hasnt been able to say what exactly the representative said or did to make 
her feel like this. Thats understandable given the time thats passed. I can accept the 
representative may have told her it was a good idea to take the policy. But this isnt the same 
as pressure. So, I havent seen enough to uphold the complaint based on what Mrs R has 
said.
Nationwide didnt provide Mrs R with advice to take out the MPPI policy. This means it 
shouldve given her clear information about the policy so that she could make a
proper choice about whether to take it out.
I dont know what steps Nationwide took to do this and its possible some things werent 
explained as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer information wouldve 
changed Mrs Rs decision. I think shed still have bought it and Ill explain why.
From what I can see it seems Mrs R was eligible for the MPPI as she met the basic 
requirements of the policy.
Looking at Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale she wouldnt have been affected by
any of the things the policy didnt cover  like known health issues or unusual employment
arrangements. So, there was nothing to stop her claiming the full benefit of the policy if shed 
needed to.
Mrs R says she wouldve received six months full pay followed by six months half pay from 
her employer if she lost her job or if she was off work unwell. This MPPI policy wouldve paid 
out if Mrs R was off work due to accident or sickness. And it would have provided cover if 
she was made redundant. This cover wouldve paid out alongside her employer benefits and 
allowed her to use these benefits to cover other everyday living expenses. So, it seems 
Mrs R wouldve benefited from the cover provided by the policy. 
Mrs Rs was a significant and long-term financial commitment, which was secured on her 
home. So, the effects of not keeping up with the repayments couldve been serious for her. 
And I think having the security that the repayments wouldve been made if Mrs R was unable 
to work or unwell wouldve been important to her.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs R. The policys premiums were 
paid monthly, so she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said, including her comments about family helping 
her if she needed it. I dont doubt that it would have been the intention of Mrs Rs family to 
help. But circumstances can change and theres no guarantee that assistance would have 
been available to her as and when she needed it. Ive also considered her comments about 
having a life insurance policy in place at the time, which she says shows she didnt need the 
MPPI. I dont know the exact details of this policy, but life insurance provides a different type 
of protection to the MPPI. And in this case, as Mrs R wasnt given advice by Nationwide, it 
wouldve been for her to decide whether she wanted the MPPI in light of any existing 
insurance she had. 
So based on everything Ive seen I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong when selling 
Mrs R this MPPI policy. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs R, but I hope my decision 
clearly sets out my reasons.my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman