DRN-2706315
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Allay Claims Ltd is charging him a fee for a payment protection insurance
claim (PPI), that he said was successful because of his direct contact with his lender.
What happened
Mr A said, in October 2019 he was contacted by his lender Ill call H. They told him hed 
PPI and that he didnt need to use a third party to pursue his claim. Mr A said after he was 
told his claim was successful, Allay asked him to pay their success fee. He complained to 
Allay as he said hed never heard of them.
Allay said Mr A had agreed to use their services in July 2019. They said Mr A had signed a 
letter of authority (LoA) which theyd submitted to H. Theyd also kept Mr A updated about 
his PPI claim. Allay said H had accepted them as Mr As representative and theyd let them 
know when Mr As claim was successful. As Mr A hadnt cancelled his agreement with them, 
they said their fee was justified.
Mr A wasnt happy with Allays response. He said he couldnt have signed up to their 
services in the way they said he had. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Allay had submitted the claim for Mr A in time for making such a claim. 
He also said Allay had updated Mr A about his claim. He didnt think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for Allay to ask Mr A to pay their success fee.
Mr A didnt agree. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint.
I can understand Mr As frustration as he feels strongly that he didnt authorise Allay to act 
on his behalf to pursue a PPI claim with his lender H. And feels it was the direct contact he 
had with his lender that meant his PPI claim was successful. He also said it wasnt possible 
for him to have signed up for Allays services. 
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision
on what I think most likely happened. I understand Mr As concerns about the LoA Allay said 
he has signed that authorised them to pursue a claim of mis-sold PPI on his behalf. But it 
isnt our role to determine whether a signature has been forged or not, that would be for a
criminal court to decide. Were an informal dispute resolution service, this means were
impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on one sides story
because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information were given.
So, I need to determine whether, on balance, I think Mr A authorised Allay to act on his 
behalf. And if he had, whether he let them know he no longer wanted them to work for him. 
Ill also consider whether I think Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mr 
A.
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in July 2019. Some of
the personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Mr A has given this 
service. The application also needed details of Mr As lenders, and these details were also 
provided. 
Allay has shown the audit trail for the on-line application and the information that was 
supplied. They said that the terms and conditions had been agreed to. And by agreeing to 
the terms and conditions this would have generated the LoA populated with the personal 
details that had been supplied. Allay said the LoA couldnt be submitted without a signature 
being added. And an acknowledgement would have been sent on submission. As the 
information provided was specific to Mr A Ive no reason to doubt that Mr A made the on-line 
application.
Ill now consider whether Mr A cancelled his agreement with Allay.
As outlined above Allays terms and conditions were available to see. And in submitting the 
LoA Mr A would have agreed to them.
Allays terms and conditions say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply. 
In September 2019, I can see from Allays records that H told them theyd found PPI on a 
couple of Mr As accounts and that they would investigate his claim that PPI had been mis-
sold. And later that month H asked Allay about the completion of a PPI questionnaire.
In 2019, leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management companies (CMC)
amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims.
And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. So,
the PPI questionnaire wasnt always needed for a PPI claim to be considered. But the
information could be used to strengthen the claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold. 
At the end of September 2019, I can see from Allays records that they notified Mr A that PPI 
had been found. The notification was headed Great News and went on to say theyd 
submitted his claim to his lender. They also recommended that Mr A complete a PPI 
questionnaire to support his claim that hed been mis-sold PPI. The notification provided a 
link to the PPI questionnaire.
Allays terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14 day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. If at any time during the 14 day cooling
off period we obtain an offer of compensation for you, our normal fee will be payable.
As Allay emailed Mr A on 30 September 2019 to tell him PPI had been found and that theyd 
submitted his complaint to H. Id consider the 14-day cooling off period to start from that 
date. So, Mr A would have had up to 14 October 2019 to cancel the agreement free of any 
charge. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr A told Allay he no longer wanted them to work for him. Or to question them as to why they were updating him about a PPI claim he 
said he never authorised them to make.
As Mr A didnt respond or complete the PPI questionnaire, I can see Allay sent further 
update emails to him in October 2019, again headed Great News. Again, I cant see any 
response from Mr A to their requests. The claim may not have been formalised according to 
Mr A, but its not enough that he simply disengaged from the process. And by not telling 
Allay he didnt want them to act on his behalf before the end of the 14-day cooling off period, 
they continued to provide their claims service to him.
Mr A said hed been in direct contact with H from October 2019. But the deadline for 
making mis-sold PPI claims was August 2019. And lenders werent accepting new claims 
after that date. I can see in January 2020 H told Allay Mr As claim was successful and said 
 I can now confirm we are upholding your clients complaint... I think this shows H 
accepted Allay had Mr As authority in making his PPI claim and they werent solely dealing 
with Mr A.
So, Im satisfied, on balance that Mr A authorised Allay to act on his behalf in pursuing a PPI 
claim for him. Allay submitted Mr As claim before the August 2019 deadline. And Mr A 
hadnt cancelled the agreement.
The agreement Mr A had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. Allay charged a
percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they actually undertook.
This means that any work done on any unsuccessful claim would be done for free. When a 
claim was successful, Allays fee may be more or less than the value of the work they
actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. And Mr As claim 
was successful.
Allays fees were charged in line with what Mr A agreed to and reflect the fee cap thats in
place for PPI claims. Mr A could have cancelled his claim with Allay. But I cant see he
cancelled the claim before it was successful.
I know Mr A will be disappointed by my decision, but, on balance, Im satisfied that Allay was
authorised by him to act on his behalf and his claim was successful. This means Allay
can charge their fees for these claims.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman