DRN-4191192
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC recorded that they had missed a 
payment on their mortgage when that was not the case.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N had a mortgage with Barclays. The mortgage matured in January 2020 and 
was paid off in April 2020. Mr and Mrs N say that they applied for a new mortgage in the 
summer of 2022 but that a credit search showed up a missed payment. They say that 
Barclays agreed that this was in error and had it removed. Later Barclays said that it hadnt 
put any adverse information on the credit file and suggested that it might be an error with the 
credit reference agency.
Our investigator was satisfied that Barclays had put the adverse data on the credit file, but 
had it removed when Mr and Mrs N informed them of the error. Our investigator 
recommended that this complaint should be upheld and felt that compensation of £300 was 
appropriate in the circumstances. Barclays agreed but Mr and Mrs N asked for a review 
saying that the compensation was too low.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although from the information supplied to me Barclays seems to have accepted in 
September 2022 that it had recorded incorrectly that Mr and Mrs N had missed a payment 
on their mortgage, when Mr and Mrs N brought a complaint it was unable to confirm that and 
felt that an error had been made by the credit reference agency. Our investigator looked into 
this and set out clearly in his view why it was likely that Barclays had made the initial error. I 
note that Barclays has accepted our investigators view so Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ns 
complaint that Barclays recorded that they had missed a payment for one month when in 
fact they didnt.
The question is what compensation flows from that. An error was made, and it must have 
been annoying for Mr and Mrs N to find out about the error and to have had to contact 
Barclays to have it rectified. But it was rectified fairly swiftly. Ive seen a medical report that 
Mrs N was suffering stress at this time related to a tenant not paying the rent and Im sure 
she may have felt under financial pressure because of that. But this is a different matter and 
I note that the doctor doesnt refer to the credit file issu6 it as a source of stress in the 
medical reports Ive seen. I assume that whatever financial application Mr and Mrs N were 
making at the time could then have continued and as the matter was rectified swiftly I cant 
fairly award compensation as if this had a major effect on their financial future. Its 
unfortunate that Barclays seems to have given incorrect information in relation to the 
complaint and I understand that must have been annoying for Mr and Mrs N. But on balance, 
I believe that the figure suggested by our investigator of £300 represents fair compensation 
for Mr and Mrs Ns distress and inconvenience and I will make an award in that amount.  
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr and Mrs N £300.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay compensation to Mr and 
Mrs N as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman