DRN-1552213
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection (PPI) policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out the PPI at the same time as arranging their mortgage during a branch 
meeting in 2002. Although it was a joint mortgage, the policy was set up just to cover Mr B 
for unemployment only.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen some of the paperwork from the time of the sale. The mortgage application form 
has a separate section for PPI and the Yes box has been ticked in that section to request 
unemployment cover only (as opposed to accident, sickness and unemployment cover).
Ive also seen the Confirmation of Discussion form. The adviser has noted that, as Mr B 
already has critical illness cover with his endowment policy and a good sickness work 
package, only unemployment cover has been selected. This suggests to me that there was a 
discussion about PPI and it seems clear that some consideration was given to how it would 
best meet Mr and Mrs Bs needs.
Overall, based on the wording and layout of the documentation, I consider that Mr and Mrs B 
would have known that they had a choice about taking out PPI. It seems to me that they 
decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing 
so.
Barclays advised Mr and Mrs B to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending it to them, it 
needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time, the PPI was suitable for them.
The mortgage application shows that Mrs B was a housewife. So it makes sense that the 
PPI was set up just to cover Mr B.
Mr B would have received a decent level of sick pay from his employer and he also had 
critical illness insurance. But, as mentioned above, this had been identified during the 
meeting and so Mr B was only sold unemployment cover. The couple had some savings. But this was an offset mortgage, so retaining any savings 
would have been useful for that purpose. Other than that, having the PPI would have meant 
that they could have used their savings to cover other outgoings at what would have been a 
difficult time. So I consider that Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policy and could have 
benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr B wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think they had an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused Mr and Mrs B to change their minds.
This means that Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
B. But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs 
B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Barclays Bank UK PL does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman