The complaint
Mr M complained about a cheque that was returned unpaid by HSBC Bank Plc. 
What happened
Mr M paid in a cheque using a HSBC cash machine to transfer money from another account 
to his HSBC account. Later HSBC told Mr M that the cheque had been returned unpaid 
because of poor image quality. Mr M didn't believe the image was of poor quality and 
thought the cheque should have been accepted. Mr M paid another cheque into his HSBC 
account a few days later. He also made a complaint.
HSBC responded acknowledging that the first cheque should have been accepted. It paid Mr 
M £75 as an apology.
Mr M said he was having some financial difficulties at the time and he struggled to pay the 
rent that month due to the problem. He was unhappy with HSBC's offer and asked for 
compensation to the amount of the cheque (£500) for the inconvenience caused and the 
length of time it took HSBC to answer the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There's no dispute that HSBC was at fault for the first cheque not being accepted. HSBC 
has accepted that. The issue for me to decide is what's the fair way to put things right.
The ombudsman service aims, as far as possible, to put a consumer back in the position 
they would have been in had a mistake not happened.
When the cheque was rejected Mr M didn't lose access to his money - it simply remained in 
his other account. So I don't think Mr M was directly financially disadvantaged by the cheque 
being rejected.
Mr M had to write and pay in a new cheque a few days later and there would have been 
some inconvenience in doing that. But I'm not persuaded that inconvenience would have 
been significant.
Mr M has said he was struggling financially, in particular to pay his rent, and this was a worry 
for him. I don't doubt that this may have been the case. However, I've looked through the 
account statements and the rent payment came out the account despite the rejected 
cheque. And after the rent payment came out the account still had enough funds for day to 
DRN-1347520day expenses before the second cheque was deposited. Based on this, I'm not persuaded 
that the rejected cheque caused any additional financial problems or worries that wouldn't 
have occurred had the first cheque been paid in successfully.
Mr M was also unhappy with how long it took HSBC to deal with his complaint. I appreciate 
the desire to receive a quick answer on a complaint, but the rules around complaint handling 
allow businesses up to eight weeks to answer a complaint. HSBC provided Mr M with a 
written response to his complaint within that timeframe. So I don't think it did anything wrong.
Overall, I conclude that HSBC's offer more than compensates Mr M for any distress and/or 
inconvenience he suffered because the first cheque was returned. 
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2020.
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman