DRN-2663038
The complaint
Miss O complains that Vodafone Limited (Vodafone) have been charging her for mobile 
phone insurance when she didnt ask for this and was unaware it was in place. Miss O also 
complains that, despite requests, Vodafone didnt update her details to allow access to her 
account. Miss O wants Vodafone to refund the total sum shes paid for the insurance. 
What happened
Miss O says she was concerned about her phone bills so she contacted Vodafone in 
October 2020 to query this. She says Vodafone told her she has insurance in place for her 
mobile phone. Miss O says this was the first time she discovered she had been paying for 
mobile phone insurance and had been doing so since 2014. Miss O complained to Vodafone 
about this.  
Vodafone responded and said the insurance policy had been added to Miss Os account in 
September 2014 when she upgraded to a new phone. Vodafone said Miss O contacted them 
in October 2020 to query why her bill was so high and she was told she had insurance 
added to her account. Vodafone said they couldnt find any request from Miss O to cancel 
the insurance prior to October 2020. They also said Miss Os monthly bills show insurance 
has been added so she shouldve been aware of this. They did accept that the insurance 
shouldve cancelled after 59 months but remained active. They apologised and offered a 
refund of £190.96 including 8% interest to go onto Miss Os next bill.  
Miss O remained unhappy as she says she was never told about there being insurance on 
her account when upgrading her phone every two years. She says in September 2018 she 
was offered insurance but refused. Miss O said she didnt have access to her monthly bills 
as she asked Vodafone to update her details to give her online access - but they never did. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss O. She thought Vodafones offer was a fair 
outcome and they didnt need to do anything further. Miss O disagreed so the matter has 
come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Miss O will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Its clear from the information provided that Miss O has had mobile phone insurance in  
place  which she has been paying for since 2014. Miss O says she wasnt aware of this. I 
can see the insurance was cancelled in October 2020  this is when Miss O says she first 
became aware she had insurance on her account. 
So, Ive looked to see whether Vodafone made it clear to Miss O that she had insurance on 
her account and/or whether I think Miss O should reasonably have been aware she had 
insurance.  
Vodafone say they have spoken with the insurance provider for Miss Os mobile phone but 
they dont have a copy of the original terms and conditions. Miss O says she has upgraded 
her mobile phone approximately every two years, and also changed her tariff plan, but she 
says she has never been told about the insurance on her account. I can see weve asked 
Vodafone for these calls. But Vodafone say they cant access call recordings from October 
2020 or prior to that date. I think it wouldve helped to listen to calls Miss O made to 
Vodafone to upgrade her phone to determine what was discussed, and in particular, whether 
she was made aware of the insurance on her account. So, Ive based my decision on the 
information I do have and whether I think this shows Miss O was aware of there being an 
insurance policy on her account.  
Vodafone have provided account notes which show Miss O called in May 2014 to make an 
insurance claim. The notes show Miss O was told about the excess which applies and to go 
into a store for the repairs. Another note says Miss O went to a store and her phone was 
sent for repairs. There is a further note which says Miss O called Vodafone in April 2015 to 
report her phone was faulty. The note says Miss O was told to take her phone to a store for 
repairs as she has insurance. 
I can see from Miss Os phone bill for May 2014 theres a charge of £50 for Insurance 
Excess Charge. And, Vodafone have provided screenshots from the insurance providers 
system showing Miss Os claim being processed in May 2014. Miss O says she contacted 
Vodafone about the warranty on her phone and they referred her to the phone manufacturer. 
She says she took her phone to the manufacturers store and they replaced her phone. She 
says it wasnt an insurance claim but a claim against the manufacturers warranty. From the 
information Ive seen, I cant say Im persuaded this was a claim under the warranty. The 
information shows a charge of £50  which represents the policy excess  being applied to 
Miss Os account. And, the information from the insurance provider shows a claim was 
processed. Given the steps which the notes show Miss O took at the time together with 
payment for the excess being itemised on her bill, I believe Miss O ought reasonably to have 
been aware that her phone repair was handled as an insurance claim. 
I can see Miss O has provided evidence from her bank which says she has held an account 
since 2007 which includes mobile phone insurance. And, that she made a claim in 2012. In 
light of this, she questions why she would decide to take out a separate policy to cover the 
same risk. I havent seen the terms and conditions of Miss Os mobile phone policy so I cant 
say whether the scope of cover for her mobile phone is the same as that provided by her 
bank. But, I do agree its unlikely a consumer would choose to have two policies in place to 
cover the same risk. That said, I cant say Vodafone have made an error here. They werent 
aware Miss O already had cover and I havent seen any evidence which shows Miss O told 
them she doesnt need the cover or that she cancelled it prior to October 2020. 
Miss O says the contact notes provided by Vodafone dont make any mention of insurance 
during the occasions she upgraded her phone or changed her tariff. I agree the notes for the 
upgrades and tariff changes dont mention the insurance but Vodafone say it wouldnt have 
been mentioned as it wasnt a part of any new contract. They say the same insurance policy 
was in place from when it was first taken out in 2014 until it was cancelled in October 2020. 
So, no renewal documents would have been issued as it wasnt part of the new upgrade 
contracts Miss O took out.  
Vodafone say Miss O will have been aware of the insurance on her account as her monthly 
mobile phone bills shows this. I can see from a phone bill the insurance is listed in the 
breakdown of items. I understand the bills were uploaded to Miss Os online account. Miss O 
says she has asked Vodafone to update her email and home address on a number of occasions - but they never did. She says, by amending these details, she would then have 
had access to her itemised bills online. Miss O says she was regularly assured by Vodafone 
that her request for her details to be updated had been actioned. And she says she was also 
informed each time she called Vodafone that an email would be sent to grant her access to 
her online account. I do take this on board, but the system and account notes provided by 
Vodafone dont show any requests by Miss O for her details to be changed. I can see from 
the account notes, Miss O changes her postal and email address in October 2020 and this 
generates an automatic text message letting her know the details have been updated. I cant 
say Vodafone have acted unreasonably by not changing the details sooner as theres no 
evidence which shows they were requested to do so.   
Miss O has provided a copy of two final complaint response letters she received from 
Vodafone. One contains her current address and one contains her previous address. Miss O 
says this shows yet again that Vodafone didnt correctly action her request to change her 
address details. I accept Miss Os point here that the two letters, which are otherwise 
identical, contain two different addresses. But, I dont think this demonstrates they failed to 
action Miss Os requests over the past many years she says shes been contacting them.  
I can see Vodafone accept there has been an error as the insurance term was for 59 months 
so this shouldve ended when it reached the maximum term. So, they offered to refund the 
charges between August 2019 to October 2020. This comes to £190.96 including 8% 
interest. I think its fair and reasonable for Vodafone to refund this as they accept it was 
taken in error.     
In summary, I dont think Vodafone have acted unfairly in refusing to reimburse Miss O the 
premiums she has paid for the 59 months her policy was active. I think the offer they have 
made to refund all payments made above the 59 months is fair and reasonable  and Miss O 
confirms she has received this.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman