DRN-3365286
The complaint
Mr B, Mr B and Mr P are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined a claim made on their 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B, Mr B and Mr P say that whilst abroad for a two-night trip at the end of June 2018, they 
were the victim of a robbery. They reported the incident to the local Police. They say that 
they had their bags stolen which contained valuable belongings and clothing, and a large 
amount of cash.
They made a claim on their travel insurance policy to cover their stolen possessions, 
providing invoices in support. Ultimately AXA declined the claim. As a result of enquires 
made with a certain retailer, it concluded that the claim made included items which werent in 
their possession at the time. Thats because some of the items claimed for had been 
returned to the retailer, so couldnt have been stolen.  
AXA said that under the policy, if the policyholder or anyone acting on their behalf knowingly 
makes a fraudulent or exaggerated claim or knowingly makes a false statement in support of 
a claim, it wont be paid.
Unhappy, Mr B, Mr B and Mr P complained to our service and their complaint wasnt upheld 
by our investigator. 
Mr B, Mr B and Mr P disagreed. So, this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. 
The crux of the complaint that Ive been asked to determine is whether AXA has 
unreasonably relied on the fraudulent claims section of the policy (at page 14 of the policy 
document) to decline the claim. It says:
Throughout your dealings with us we expect you to act honestly.
If you or anyone acting for you:
a)knowingly provides information to us as part of your application for your policy 
that is not true and complete to the best of your knowledge and belief; or
b) knowingly makes a fraudulent or exaggerated claim under your policy; or
c) knowingly makes a false statement in support of a claim; or
d) submits a knowingly false or forged document in support of a claim; or
e) makes a claim for any loss or damage caused by your wilful act or caused with 
     your agreement, knowledge or collusion.
Then
a) We may prosecute fraudulent claimants;
b) We may make the policy void from the date of the fraudulent act;
c) We will not pay any fraudulent claims;
d) We will be entitled to recover from you the amount of any fraudulent claim already 
     paid under your policy since the start date;
e) We may inform the Police of the circumstances
Based on its investigations, I think AXA has fairly and reasonably concluded that this claim 
was made knowingly to be fraudulent or exaggerated. 
Its received confirmation from a particular retailer that:
- the order for some of the items claimed for had either been cancelled before they 
took delivery of the items; or
- items had been returned to the retailer and money refunded - or were said to have 
never been received by the recipient. 
Given the number of items this applied to, and that they were valued at over £3,000 in total 
(some costing over £100 each), I think AXA has reasonably concluded that the fact that they 
were included on the claim form wasnt an oversight by the policyholders. 
And so, I dont think its acted unreasonably by declining the totality of the claim made under 
the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, Mr B and Mr 
P to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman