DRN-2586678
The complaint
Mr B complains that the vehicle he acquired through a conditional sale agreement financed 
by Close Brothers Limited (trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance) wasnt of satisfactory 
quality and was misrepresented. He wants the costs of repairs to be covered or to reject the 
vehicle and end the agreement.
What happened
Mr B tells us that he acquired the vehicle in March 2020 from a dealer Ill refer to as F. He 
says that there were numerous faults with the vehicle. These included a broken earth 
connection from tailgate to body; flapping noise; scuff on nearside bumper: rear tyres low 
tread; fault with driver side wing mirror not folding.  He also says the vehicle didnt come with 
a media and a sat nav system.
CBMF told us that it had arranged for the vehicle to be independently inspected by a 
business Ill refer to as A. And that A had reported that whilst the vehicle had faults these 
were wear and tear related and had developed since supply. It said that F had explained that 
a sat nav and Bluetooth connection could be fitted but this would be at a cost to Mr B.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She found that the 
vehicle was of satisfactory quality when supplied. And that it hadnt been misrepresented. 
She was satisfied that Mr B wouldve known following the test drive that the car was not 
equipped with sat nav or Bluetooth systems.
Mr B didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry the vehicle hasnt measured up to Mr Bs expectations. But as a used vehicle, 
around eight years old with over 69,000 miles covered at the time of supply, theres a greater 
risk of things going wrong than would be the case with a newer vehicle.
Mr Bs conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. CBMF supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA); and the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects of price, previous use and 
durability.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. This presumption applies 
unless its shown that the goods did conform to contract at that time.
The CCA makes the provider of finance liable for any misrepresentation made by the dealer 
/ credit broker in antecedent negotiations. A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact 
which induces a consumer to enter an agreement and to consequently incur a loss as the 
result of the misrepresentation.
Ill deal first with the alleged misrepresentation in relation to the Bluetooth and sat nav. Ive 
not been provided with any documentary information to show that the vehicle was advertised 
as being supplied with these features. Ive seen information about F trying to source the 
items. But it said this was to be at cost to Mr B. 
Where information is incomplete or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I find it improbable that having test driven the vehicle Mr B would not have been aware that it 
did not come equipped with a sat nav system or Bluetooth facility. Alternatively, I find that he 
ought reasonably to have been aware that this was so. And Id have thought that if the 
provision of these items had been part of the inclusive price of the vehicle there would be 
some written confirmation of this. In the absence of this Im unable to say the vehicle was 
misrepresented in this respect.
Ive seen the independent inspection report carried out by A in August 2020. In summary, 
this identifies some but not all of the issues about which Mr B complains. The odometer 
reading was 72,853 miles. This suggests average use since the time of supply to Mr B.
The report identifies that the nearside electric wing mirror doesnt fold in; an earthing strap 
had snapped due to corrosion, although it was still attached to the bodywork. It found the 
tyres were legal.
A concluded that the faults it identified would not have been present at the point of supply 
unless there was evidence to show these had been ongoing issues since then.
Its clear that Mr B did identify some issues as he emailed F on 3 April 2020. This email 
referred to  as well as items which Mr B had seemingly repaired himself  a scuff to the 
bumper, flapping noise, low tread tyres and a broken earth connection.
In relation to satisfactory quality the CRA contains the following provisions: 
S. 9 Goods to be of satisfactory quality
(1) Every contract to supply goods is to be treated as including a term that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory.
(4)  The term mentioned in subsection (1) does not cover anything which makes the 
quality of the goods unsatisfactory
(b)  where the consumer examines the goods before the contract is made, which that 
examination ought to reveal.Taking into account the age and mileage of the vehicle and the fact that Mr B inspected and 
took a test drive before supply, it seems probable that he knew or ought reasonably to have 
known of the issues about which complaint is now made. 
Even if that werent so, they appear to be matters which can be broadly categorised as wear 
and tear items. And they do not seem to have seriously compromised the use of the vehicle. 
Its to be anticipated with older, used vehicles that such items requiring maintenance will 
arise. Nothing Ive seen would lead me to the view that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply.
Ive concluded that CBMF neednt take any further steps in relation to this complaint. And I 
do not uphold it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman