DRN-3004724
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J have travel insurance as a benefit of their packaged bank account.
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs J booked a trip abroad. They were due to travel between 3 and 20 
April 2020.
However, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all 
but essential travel abroad as a result of Covid-19. So Mr and Mrs J had to cancel their trip. 
They were able to recover many of the costs associated with the cancellation. But they 
werent offered a cash refund for a hotel stay and a boat cruise. The hotel offered Mr and 
Mrs J a credit voucher for the value of their booking cost. And the cruise provider also 
appeared to do so. As Mr and Mrs J wanted cash reimbursement of these costs, they made 
a claim on their travel insurance policy.
UKI turned down the claim. It said that the policy only covered financial losses a 
policyholders suffered. As the hotel had offered Mr and Mrs J a credit note for the full value 
of their booking, it said they hadnt suffered a financial loss. It said the policy terms 
specifically excluded losses which could recovered from elsewhere. It also told Mr and Mrs J 
that before it could consider a claim for the cruise costs, it needed to see a cancellation 
invoice from the provider.
Mr and Mrs J were unhappy with UKIs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Js complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
evidence showed that both the hotel and cruise provider had offered Mr and Mrs J credit 
notes for the cost of their bookings. And he also noted that the cruise provider had 
suggested to Mr and Mrs J, in June 2021, that it intended to refund the value of their trip. So 
he felt their losses for both bookings were recoverable. He considered that as Mr and Mrs J 
had indicated that they intended to travel to the same destination in 2022, the terms of the 
vouchers werent unfairly restrictive. He thought itd been fair for UKI to turn down Mr and 
Mrs Js claim.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed. They provided copies of texts between Mrs J and the cruise 
provider, which showed that the provider had promised to refund the costs but had failed to 
do so. They felt the cruise provider was stalling the refund, as they had no recourse to take 
action against it.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs J, I think it was fair for UKI to turn 
down their claim. Ill explain why. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about, amongst other 
things, the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Js policy and the circumstances of their 
claim to decide whether UKI handled it fairly. 
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs Js contract with 
UKI. The cancellation section of the policy sets out the insured events it covers for unused 
costs a policyholder incurs if they need to cancel their trip. One of these insured events is 
the FCO advising against all but essential travel to a policyholders pre-booked destination. 
In this case, theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Js holiday was cancelled as a result of the 
FCO advising against all but essential travel on 17 March 2020. So I can understand why Mr 
and Mrs J feel that UKI should pay their claim for their unused costs. But the cancellation 
section of the policy also includes a list of things that UKI doesnt cover. One of these states 
that UKI wont pay for any expenses that a policyholder can recover from elsewhere. 
The hotel booking
UKI says that as the hotel offered Mr and Mrs J a credit note for the full value of their 
booking; they havent suffered a financial loss for this booking which is covered by the policy. 
And I think the policy wording makes it clear that UKI doesnt cover costs which can be 
recovered from elsewhere. 
Ive next considered the terms of the hotels credit note. Ive seen a copy of email 
correspondence between Mrs J and the hotel. Mrs J told the hotel that she and Mr J planned 
to stay at the hotel in 2022. The hotel responded that it would hold the amount Mr and Mrs J 
had paid as a credit against a future booking. So I think it was fair for UKI to conclude that 
Mr and Mrs J hadnt suffered a financial loss for this booking, because the credit note would 
cover the full value of their pre-booked accommodation. 
I note the hotel didnt impose a deadline for using the voucher. Given Mr and Mrs J informed 
the hotel they planned to stay there in 2022, I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to 
conclude that Mr and Mrs J would most likely be in a position to use the credit note in the 
future. And in my view, the terms of the credit note arent overly restrictive. I can understand 
why Mr and Mrs J might prefer to get a cash refund for their booking with the hotel, given 
that travel plans currently remain uncertain. But I dont find it was unfair for UKI to consider 
that Mr and Mrs J hadnt suffered a financial loss for this booking.
The cruise booking
UKI told Mr and Mrs J that it in order for it to consider a claim for the cruise, it would need to 
see a cancellation invoice for the booking. This is in line with the claims conditions, which 
are set out in the policy terms.
However, like the investigator, Ive also seen an email from the cruise provider dated 25 April 
2020, which stated that it would be prepared to offer a credit note for the value of the 
booking. It later told Mr and Mrs J it would need to speak to its management to confirm the 
validity of the voucher. Ive since seen text correspondence between Mrs J and the provider, 
from June 2021, in which the provider indicated it would be paying a cash refund of the cruise booking costs to Mr and Mrs Js bank account. 
In either case, it appears that on the face of things, Mr and Mrs J have recovered the costs 
of their cruise. I say that because the initial credit voucher offer was for the value of their 
booking and didnt include a deadline for use. As Ive set out above, Mr and Mrs J have 
indicated to the provider that they plan to take their trip in 2022, so the terms of the voucher 
dont appear to be restrictive. And if the cruise provider actions a cash refund instead, then 
Mr and Mrs J will have been able to fully recover their losses via a bank transfer. 
Given the available evidence indicates that the provider is intending to make a transfer of the 
booking costs, if I were to direct UKI to pay these costs, the effect could likely be that Mr and 
Mrs J recover these losses twice. This would lead to Mr and Mrs J profiting from the 
insurance contract. On the current evidence I have then, I dont think I could fairly or 
reasonably conclude that UKI should pay the costs of the river cruise.
If, however, Mr and Mrs J are able to obtain confirmation from the cruise provider that its 
neither offering a credit voucher nor a cash refund of their booking costs, its open to them to 
send this to UKI to consider. It would be for UKI to assess the claim further in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
But, as Ive set out above, on the evidence before me, I think it was fair and reasonable for 
UKI to conclude that Mr and Mrs J havent demonstrated theyve suffered a financial loss for 
the cruise booking. 
Overall, Ive decided it was fair and reasonable for UKI to turn down Mr and Mrs Js claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman