DRN-3662826
The complaint
Miss F says Loans 2 Go Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Miss Fs complaint is about a loan provided by Loans 2 Go. The loan was taken out in 
February 2021 in the sum of £250 repayable over a term of 18 months.
Miss F complains that Loans 2 Go irresponsibly lent to her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Loans 2 Go had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks before lending the money and that there was nothing 
in the information obtained from the checks which meant that it shouldnt have lent to Miss F.
Miss F disagreed with the adjudicator, so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending including 
the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice are set out on this services 
website.
Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss F 
could afford to repay what was being lent in a  sustainable manner.
There isnt a set list of checks that a business needs to carry out. Loans 2 Go needs to make 
sure that checks are reasonable and proportionate when considering things like how much 
was being lent, the repayment amount and the consumers income and expenditure.
Less detailed affordability checks are reasonable and proportionate where a consumers 
financial position is stable and where borrowing is insignificant given  the consumers overall 
financial circumstances.
I can see that when Miss F applied for the account she declared monthly income of £1324. 
Loans 2 Go verified this by checking Mss Fs payslips. It also carried out checks on Miss Fs 
credit file and found nothing which gave them cause for concern about Miss Fs financial 
situation. Loans 2 Go calculated Miss Fs monthly expenditure to be around £969 not 
including the loan repayment of £57. Based on the information it obtained, Loans 2 Go 
assessed the loan as affordable for Miss F.
Ive thought about whether the checks carried out by Loans 2 Go were reasonable and 
proportionate. I havent seen anything to suggest that Loans 2 Go shouldve carried out 
further checks. Miss F has said that Loans 2 Go shouldve checked her bank statements 
before approving the loan.  Theres no obligation on Loans 2 Go to do this, and Id only 
expect it to do so if the information it had already obtained gave it cause for concern about 
Miss Fs financial situation. Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks were reasonable and 
proportionate, and there was nothing in the information obtained which suggested that Miss 
F wouldnt be able to repay the lending in a  sustainable manner.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman