DRN-2006580
The complaint
Mr P complains that he has lost money as a result of the way Halifax Share Dealing Limited 
(HSDL) dealt with his instruction to sell some shares. 
What happened
Mr P held some shares in his share dealing account with HSDL. On 24 January 2020, he 
accessed his account online with intention of selling the shares using HSDLs online dealing 
platform. The number of shares Mr P wanted to sell was too large to be traded immediately 
online, so he was given the option to attempt the sale through a negotiated order on a best 
price basis. He agreed to this and the order was passed to HSDLs dealers. The dealers 
then contacted a number of market makers to obtain the best price available for the shares. 
A market was found, and the shares were sold the same day. Unfortunately, the price the 
shares were sold at was less than the price Mr P was expecting based on his own research 
and what he saw when he tried to deal immediately on-line (albeit that price wasnt available 
to him due to the number of shares he was selling). 
Mr P was unhappy with the price he received for his shares. He said HSDL should 
compensate him for the difference in what he expected to receive and what he actually got 
as it failed to get the best price when selling his shares.
HSDL investigated the complaint but didnt think it had made any errors in completing the 
transaction. Mr P was not satisfied with HSDLs response and brought his complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. In his opinion, 
HSDL acted fairly when selling the shares and in line with Mr Ps instructions. He also said 
HSDL had made Mr P aware of the consequences of placing a negotiated order and given 
him the option to place a limit order if there was a particular price he required. Mr P didnt 
accept the investigators view and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the conclusion that the complaint should not be upheld. Ill 
explain why. 
Its clear that Mr P wanted to sell his shares. HSDL said the Normal Market Size (NMS) for 
the stock Mr P wanted to trade was 25,000 shares. The NMS is the maximum number of 
shares the market makers will honour the Touch Price at and trade immediately. Mr P 
wanted to sell over 400,000 shares from his account  so it is not surprising he couldnt trade 
immediately via the online platform. 
HSDL gave him an alternative way to sell his shares through the option of a negotiated 
order. This meant a dealer had to manually obtain a price for the shares Mr P wanted to sell. 
HSDL has provided information about the attempts to sell the shares and the process it 
followed. It confirmed that four market makers were approached, and it negotiated the best 
price it could in the circumstances. 
The circumstances surrounding the sale are important to consider. Mr P was looking sell a 
large number of shares well over the NMS. Ive also seen evidence to suggest that this trade 
was by some way the largest trade of this particular stock on the day. Mr Ps instruction was 
given late on a Friday  meaning there was a risk to closing the position before the market 
closed for the weekend. All of this does present challenges in finding a market and impacts 
on the price that can be achieved. From the information Ive seen Im satisfied that HDSL did 
act in line with the terms of Mr Ps account when executing the trade on a best price basis.
I have noted Mr Ps comments about not agreeing to the sale if he would have known the 
selling price, but I dont think this makes a difference to my overall thinking. From his 
comments it does seem he understood that the price wasnt guaranteed but he didnt expect 
it to be too different. HSDL has provided details of the screens available to Mr P online when 
he agreed to a negotiated trade. These confirm that by choosing a negotiated trade the price 
couldnt be guaranteed. It also says, if you are looking for a specific price there is an option 
to choose a different trading method, which would be more suitable. But Mr P didnt select to 
change the type of trade. 
 
From the information available, I havent found anything to suggest HSDL acted unfairly or 
made mistakes when following Mr Ps instruction to sell his shares. I appreciate Mr Ps 
disappointment with the price that was obtained but that doesnt mean it was as a result of 
errors by HSDL. Im satisfied HSDL sold the shares at the best price available as soon as 
practically possible, as per Mr Ps instructions. I havent found that HSDL is responsible for 
any financial loss Mr P believes he has suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman