DRN-3230810
The complaint
Mr H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) were unfair to reject his 
property insurance claim.
What happened
Mr H owns a property which he rents out, and its insured by RSA.
In October 2020, Mr H let his property to a tenant from abroad. But after a few months he 
returned to his homeland. He has said hed left the property with his brother but intended to 
return later.
Unfortunately, Mr H was contacted by police in April 2021 to say that his property had been 
used to cultivate drugs. There was a significant amount of damage, seemingly caused by the 
people who had taken over the property  so Mr H submitted a claim for this to RSA.
RSA considered the claim, but they said the damage wasnt covered because he hadnt 
adhered to some of the policy requirements. They said he didnt:
carry out the quarterly inspections required;
obtain and record written formal identification of any prospective tenant;
obtain and retain an employers reference for any new tenant;
obtain and record details of the tenants bank account, including verifying them by 
receiving at least one payment from the account.
Mr H didnt agree with this. He said he had last inspected the property in December 2020, 
and that he couldnt do so in the following months due to covid restrictions. He said he saw 
the tenants passport and noted his name as recorded on it. Mr H says he couldnt obtain an 
employers reference because the tenant wasnt employed, or was self-employed. And Mr H 
says he saw and recorded the tenants bank details and received a payment from the 
account.
RSA maintained their position so Mr H brought his complaint to our service to consider. An 
investigator here looked into it, but they agreed with RSA that the claim wasnt covered. The 
reasons given were largely the same as RSAs.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I dont think RSA were wrong to decline his claim. Ill explain 
why.
The exclusions section of Mr Hs policy says that it wont cover damage caused as a result 
of the Residential Property being used by occupants for illegal activities but shall not 
exclude Damage caused by the manufacture, cultivation, harvest or processing by other 
method of drugs classed as a controlled substance under the Misuse of Drugs Act (1971)
So, I think the policy covers the damage caused, subject to the remaining policy terms. 
However, the policy then goes on to say that Mr H must ensure that You [he] followed by 
a list of five requirements. The four listed above and a fifth which isnt relevant to this case.
Finally, the policy says Failure to comply with any of these requirements may result in Us 
not paying Your claim.
In view of this Im satisfied that RSA was able to reject the claim if Mr H failed to adhere to 
any of the four relevant requirements.
I dont think Mr H did adhere to them all, although I do have a slightly different view from 
RSA and the investigator on this. I accept that Mr H wouldve found it difficult if not 
impossible to adhere to the first requirement, bearing in mind the covid restrictions. It has 
been said that he could have carried out a video call so the tenant could walk him around the 
house to check everything.
I dont think thats necessarily practical for everyone and while some landlords may have 
chosen to do so  I dont think such an inspection wouldve helped in this case. Mr H has 
provided messages exchanged between him and the tenant from April 2021, in which the 
tenant said he left for his homeland five months ago (so presumably shortly after the last 
inspection took place).
Based on the loss adjusters comments and the level of damage to the house it would seem 
that even if Mr H had been able to carry out an inspection three months after the December 
2020 one, the damage would already have been done. So, I dont think the lack of an 
inspection is important to this case.
Turning to the formal identification requirement. I accept that Mr H may have viewed the 
tenants passport and that he recorded the tenants full name from it (which was different 
from the name he used). But I think the requirement is to do more than that. At the very least 
I think recording the passport number would be needed to fulfil this, if not a photocopy or 
photograph of it.
As at least one of the requirements wasnt adhered to, I think RSA was able to reject the 
claim. But for completeness Ill go on to explain my thoughts on the others.
The employee reference. I take Mr Hs point that his tenant was either unemployed or self-
employed (the reason for doubt is that he was seemingly doing work for cash payment). I 
accept that means it would have been impossible for Mr H to obtain a reference, and I also 
accept that the policy doesnt say what to do in those circumstances. But I dont think that 
means I can say the requirement was complied with, because it just wasnt.
Part of the reason insurers ask for references to be obtained is to try and help ensure they 
are of good repute. And while I appreciate Mr Hs explanation that he was trusting of the 
tenant and felt he was in need of help at the time, that isnt really the same  however noble 
it might seem.
Finally, theres the bank account details and verification through receipt of payment from it. I 
accept that Mr H took down those details, but Ive not seen anything to confirm he received 
payment from the account. Its been said that theres a bank statement  showing a 
transaction which is purportedly from the tenant  but Ive not seen that statement. However, even if I did see it, it wouldnt detract from the failure to adhere to two out of the four 
requirements. So, it wouldnt change my decision in this case.
Overall, while I appreciate Mr H has been through a very difficult experience and has lost out 
as a result of what happened, I dont think I can reasonably say RSA should pay his claim.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman