DRN-3705835
The complaint
Miss B complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited unfairly terminated her student loans at 
the end of a deferment period. 
What happened
Miss B had three student loans with Erudio that had been subject to deferment. In May 2014 
the existing deferment period ended but no new deferment application form was received by 
Erudio. As a result, arrears begin to accrue on Miss Bs loan. By October 2014, when Erudio 
received Miss Bs next deferment application, she was around six months in arrears. 
Miss Bs October 2014 deferment application was approved but the arrears were not repaid. 
Successful deferment applications were made until 2019. Erudio issued new deferment 
applications to Miss B but didnt received a response before the end of the existing 
deferment period in November 2019. As there was no active deferment in place, Miss B 
became liable for monthly payments as well as the existing arrears. 
Erudio sent Miss B a default notice in November 2019 and her loan agreements were later 
terminated as no payments or contact was received. The loans were later passed to a third 
party business to collect on Erudios behalf. 
Once the loan agreements were terminated Miss B lost the right to defer future payments or 
qualify for an age related write off. Miss B complained but Erudio didnt agree it had made 
mistakes or treated her unfairly. 
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Bs complaint and said we could only consider 
it in part. The investigator said issues that had occurred more than six years before Miss B 
complained didnt fall within the remit of our service. And they didnt think Erudio had treated 
Miss B unfairly by closing the loans due to arrears. Miss B asked to appeal, so her complaint 
was passed to me to make a decision. 
I recently issued a decision that explained we cant consider events that occurred more than 
six years before the complaint was made. But I said we could consider the circumstances of 
Miss Bs account closure in 2019 as this complaint was referred to us in line with the time 
limits noted in the rules.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said above, I recently issued a decision that focused on how the time limits we 
operate under impacts Miss Bs complaint. In this decision, Im going to talk about the 
circumstances under which Erudio terminated Miss Bs loans. 
From 2014 onwards, Erudio sent Miss B letters that confirmed her student loans were in 
arrears. Ive reviewed the Notices of Sums in Arrears letters and Im satisfied that clearly set 
out the status of Miss Bs accounts. I appreciate the loans were subject to deferment during 
this time, so no standard monthly payments were required. But the arrears in question came 
about when Miss Bs account was not subject to a deferment. Im satisfied there were 
arrears and that Erudio contacted Miss B to request repayment. 
The effect of the existing arrears meant Erudio quickly moved the account through its 
collections process once the existing deferment period ended. But given how long the loans 
had been in arrears, Im not persuaded that was unfair. Im sorry to disappoint Miss B but Im 
satisfied Erudio acted fairly when it closed the loans. 
Miss B has told us shes felt harassed in relation to the closed loan. But Erudio and its 
agents have a legitimate reason to contact Miss B about repayment. So Im unable to agree 
Erudios acted unfairly by continuing to contact Miss B about the loan balances. Whilst the 
loans may no longer be eligible for deferment and age related write offs, Erudio is obliged to 
ensure any arrangements it reaches are affordable and sustainable. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B, but as Im satisfied Erudio dealt with her complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman