DRN-1987414
The complaint
Mr C complains about the poor service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC after he was the 
victim of fraud. Hes disappointed with the way the bank treated him when he reported the 
matter. He says the bank didnt do enough to prevent the fraud and that he feels let down. 
What happened
In August 2019 Mr C contacted the bank to report suspicious transactions on his account. 
His card details had been added to a mobile payment and digital wallet service, which Ill call 
service A. The bank investigated, but overlooked removing Mr Cs card details from service 
A.
On 20 October 2019, Mr C checked his online banking and noticed that three contactless 
transactions totalling £27.29 had been made without his authority. He phoned Lloyds to 
report them. A fraudster had been able to use Mr Cs card details to make contactless 
payments through service A. The money was refunded to his account and the problem was 
resolved the same day. Mr C says he was treated poorly by Lloyds whilst on the phone. He 
explains the call lasted for over an hour and that the banks employee was rude. He pointed 
out the transactions would not have been made at all if the bank had acted correctly and 
removed his details from service A at the time of the first fraud. He obtained a copy of the 
call recording and then raised a complaint. 
Lloyds issued its first final response on 15 January 2020. It felt the questions the banks 
employee had asked Mr C were appropriate, but it agreed that the employees tone and level 
of customer service provided fell short. It agreed that it should have deregistered Mr Cs card 
information from service A as part of the investigation into the previous fraud claim. Initially it 
offered Mr C £250 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience hed been 
caused. It increased the offer by a further £50 to acknowledge the delay in responding to his 
concerns. It also offered to pay Mr C £6 to cover the cost of the phone calls hed made. 
Mr C called the bank on 18 January 2020. He was concerned about his personal 
information. He pointed out that when he genuinely signed up for another mobile payment 
and digital wallet service, hed received a letter from Lloyds to say his details had been 
registered but this didnt happen when his details were signed up to service A. Mr C wanted 
to know exactly when his details were added to service A and why he wasnt told about it at 
the time. Mr C said the banks response to his complaint focused on the way the banks 
employee had handled the situation and didnt properly look into how the mistake came to be 
made. The bank agreed it would review Mr Cs concerns. 
On 27 February 2020, the bank issued a further final response. It paid Mr C a further £100 
for not getting back to him sooner. The letter said Mr Cs previous debit card was registered 
for service A on 20 October 2019 but was deregistered on the same day when the banks 
fraud team cancelled the card. It was unable to confirm that notification of the card being 
registered was sent to him. 
Mr C called the bank for an update on 28 February 2020. Lloyds told him it didnt keep 
records to show when his card information was added to service A. Mr C was concerned and 
felt it was strange that the bank didnt know when his card was added to service A but also 
said it happened on 20 October 2019.
Mr C wasnt happy with the banks response, so he contacted us. He felt Lloyds hadnt taken 
the matter seriously. He wanted the matter to be looked into further and for the level of 
compensation awarded to reflect the severity of the banks mistakes. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. He agreed that Lloyds could have handled the 
disputed transaction claim call better than it did, but he thought the compensation it had 
already paid to Mr C to recognise this was fair. The investigator agreed it was reasonable for 
Mr C to want to know how his card had been set up for service A. He acknowledged that 
Mr C might have been able to take steps to prevent the disputed transactions from 
happening if hed been notified. But overall he felt Lloyds had put Mr C back into the financial 
position he was in before the transactions took place. He thought it had done so quickly and 
had taken steps to deregister Mr Cs details from service A promptly. He thought the level of 
compensation the bank had offered was in line with what hed expect. 
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint afresh, so the 
matter has been referred to me. He pointed out that this could happen to other people too 
and Lloyds should be more proactive to stop it. He explained that he received notification 
from the bank when he registered his details on another mobile payment and digital wallet 
service.  
He felt Lloyds needed to be held to account for the severity of the mistakes and errors that 
have been made. He didnt think Lloyds had done enough to prevent the second fraud. He 
explained he wanted justice to be served and that he was never given an explanation as to 
why the details for service A werent removed as part of his original fraud claim. He felt he 
was not being told the complete truth. He didnt think the banks offer of compensation 
properly recognised the anxiety and stress he has been put through. He pointed out he 
never received a postal copy of the second final response letter. Our investigator forwarded 
on an electronic copy for his records. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered everything Mr C has told us about what happened here. 
I understand that he feels let down by the bank. Thats not surprising. Money was taken out 
of his account without him agreeing to it, so hes bound to have concerns about how that 
was possible. 
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr C that I agree with our investigator. I think the compensation 
Lloyds has already paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ill explain why. 
Mr C asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter because he wanted the bank to be 
held to account for the severity of the mistakes that had been made. But Im not a regulator. 
Whilst I recognise Mr Cs strength of feeling about Lloyds actions, Im not able to punish a 
financial business for things that have gone wrong. 
In this instance, Lloyds has already put Mr Cs account back in the position it would have 
been in if nothing had gone wrong. It has removed Mr Cs details from service A. It has 
refunded the money that was taken out of his account, and as no charges or debit interest 
were applied as a result of the fraudulent transactions, he hasnt suffered any further 
financial loss. As Mr C hasnt lost out as a result of what happened, the only remaining matter for me to 
decide is whether the compensation already paid goes for enough to put right the impact of 
what went wrong on Mr C. 
Lloyds has already agreed that it did not handle things well. It agrees that it should have 
deregistered Mr Cs details from service A at the time of the first fraud. In the conversation 
Mr C had with the bank on 20 October 2019, it is clear he was unsettled when he discovered 
contactless payments that he did not agree to had been made. The bank already accepts 
the call on 20 October 2019 should have been handled better too, and that the level of detail 
that it has been able to provide about how Mr Cs details came to be used with service A fell 
short of what Mr C wanted. 
Mr C has expressed concern about the banks explanations about when and how card 
details linked to his account came to be used on service A. He is disappointed that the bank 
doesnt have clear records to explain what happened. I can appreciate Mr Cs level of 
concern. Hes unfortunately been the victim of fraud twice in a short space of time and is 
understandably worried that his money and details are not safe. He naturally wants to do all 
that he can to stop the same thing from happening to him again in the future. From Mr Cs 
perspective, the banks position that the details have now been deregistered feels dismissive 
and downplays the seriousness of having money taken out of his account that he didnt 
agree to. After all, Mr C did the right thing by immediately contacting Lloyds as soon as he 
noticed payments out of his account that he did not authorise.
Overall, I do agree with Mr C that Lloyds didnt deal with things as well as it could or should 
have done. Hes clearly been inconvenienced and caused frustration because Lloyds didnt 
get things right. I have thought about what compensation might be appropriate for the poor 
service arising from the problems Mr C has had. Having done so, I think the £400 Lloyds has 
already paid along with the £6 to cover Mr Cs call costs is a fair and reasonable sum to 
make up for that in the circumstances. I can appreciate that Mr C feels this doesnt go far 
enough. I dont underestimate the impact of the anxiety and stress he has described. In 
some respects, theres no right answer as to how much compensation should be given, 
especially as no amount of money is able to change what happened. But I am unable to 
fine Lloyds for areas of its service which have let Mr C down. My role is to look at Mr Cs 
complaint impartially. Having done so, I dont find grounds on which I might fairly require 
Lloyds to increase its offer. 
In the circumstances, whilst I am sorry to have to disappoint Mr C, I dont require Lloyds to 
do anything further. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman