DRN-3136319
The complaint
Mr H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has failed to correctly calculate the 
transfer value of his pension benefits over a number of years. He says that once that 
mistake had been identified, it took several months for Aviva to provide him with a corrected 
transfer value resulting in a delay in him being able to put his pension benefits into payment. 
During that period the value of his pension benefits fell.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2021. In that decision I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what Aviva needed to do to put things 
right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness, 
I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr H has held pension benefits with Aviva for a number of years. In November 2019 
Mr H requested information from Aviva about the value of his pension savings. The 
information he received from Aviva showed that his pension benefits had suffered 
a significant fall in value over the previous year. So he raised that matter with Aviva 
and asked for an explanation.
Aviva told Mr H that the information hed been given in 2019 about his pension 
benefits was correct. But it said that the values hed been told for his pension benefits 
in the years preceding 2019 were incorrect.
Mr H continued to discuss the valuation of his pension savings with Aviva. In early 
2020 he raised a query regarding some enhancements that had been due to his 
pension benefits following changes required by the 1986 Financial Services Act. 
Aviva took some time to complete its investigations and didnt provide a corrected 
valuation of Mr Hs pension benefits until July 2020. By then, further reductions had 
been applied to the final bonus applicable to Mr Hs pension savings and so its value 
had fallen further.
When Mr H first complained to Aviva it explained that it was unable to honour the 
valuations it had incorrectly calculated before 2019. But it offered him £1,000 in 
recognition of the loss of expectation he had suffered. And later Aviva offered Mr H a 
further £300 to reflect the delays in providing him with a recalculation of his pension 
benefits. Mr H didnt accept those offers and brought his complaint to this Service. He 
said that the errors Aviva had made in calculating his benefits had delayed his 
intention to put his pension into payment. So it would now be worth less than if hed 
taken those benefits as hed planned in November 2019.
I think it would be helpful to first set out in some detail the errors that have been 
made by Aviva in calculating the pension benefits that are due to Mr H. It seems that 
both parties generally agree that these errors have been made. As our investigator 
has explained, the calculation of the benefits due to Mr H is complex, and something 
that requires actuarial expertise. So it isnt feasible for this Service to validate the 
information Aviva has provided. However I want to give some reassurance to Mr H 
that I have carefully examined what Aviva has told us, and think it most likely that 
Aviva has now correctly calculated the benefits due to him.
Mr Hs pension benefits arise from a with profits fund that is used to provide a 
guaranteed annuity amount. As Mr H paid pension contributions, those funds were 
used to generate a guaranteed amount of annuity at his retirement. Those amounts 
were then enhanced over the years by the addition of guaranteed bonusses. And 
they might also benefit from the addition of a final bonus amount, although that could 
not be guaranteed until the actual point of retirement. And further enhancements 
have been made to the annuity since Mr H has chosen to not take his pension 
benefits at his originally selected retirement age.
So the benefits that Mr H was entitled to receive would provide him, when he chose 
to put them into payment, with an annuity for life. But his pension contract also 
allowed him to take those benefits in the form of a cash transfer that he could use to 
purchase retirement benefits from another provider. His original pension plan 
agreement set out the terms by which the guaranteed annuity could be changed into 
a cash transfer value by way of specified cash option factors (COF).
 
Since 2006 Aviva has applied a discretionary enhancement to the cash value of 
these contracts since the contractual COFs represented relatively poor value if the 
benefits were transferred elsewhere. This enhancement is linked to current annuity 
rates and is multiplied by the pension amount to give an enhanced cash value. The 
enhanced cash transfer value of Mr Hs pension savings as at 7 November 2019 was 
£139,662.80 compared with the contractual value of £72,968.83.
Aviva has identified that, since 2013, the calculations it performed on some pension 
plans to derive the enhanced transfer value were incorrect. It identified this error in 
2018 and made the necessary changes to its systems by July 2019. So any 
quotations it produced after that date showed the correct information. And it is for this 
reason that the quotations Mr H received before 2019 showed a much higher transfer 
value than he was entitled to receive. Aviva has assured us that error would have 
been identified and corrected had Mr H chosen to transfer his pension benefits in 
2018 or before.
A further error has been identified in the calculation of the pension benefits due to 
Mr H.
When Mr H first took out the pension plan his wife was by employed by General 
Accident (that later became part of Aviva). She therefore received commission 
payments in respect of the sale of the pension policy to Mr H. The 1986 Financial 
Services Act required General Accident to cease paying this commission in respect 
of any premiums it received after July 1988. So it told Mr Hs wife that, instead, it 
would provide enhanced benefits on the premiums that were paid by Mr H.When Mr H first became aware of the apparent reduction in the value of his pension 
benefits in late 2019 he asked Aviva if that might be related to problems with those 
enhanced benefits not being correctly calculated. Initially Aviva was unable to locate 
any agreement to enhance the benefits due to Mr H. But Mr H provided the 
paperwork from the time and Aviva was then able to assess whether those promises 
had been met. It became apparent that the enhanced benefits hadnt been taken into 
account in the quotations provided to Mr H. Aviva has now corrected its records to 
fairly reflect the benefits due to Mr H.
So I am satisfied that, as things now stand, Aviva will be able to fairly calculate the 
pension benefits to which Mr H is entitled. As I said earlier Aviva offered Mr H £1,000 
to reflect the loss of expectation he faced in November 2019 when he discovered the 
error that had been made. For a period of five years Mr Hs quoted transfer value 
was up to 25% higher than the correct value.
I dont think, and it seems Mr H accepts, that Aviva should be expected to honour the 
incorrect quotations it provided before 2019. The transfer values shown on those 
quotations were not something to which Mr H was entitled. And I havent seen 
anything to make me think that Mr H made any irrevocable financial decisions based 
on the higher transfer value. But, Aviva has quite rightly identified the loss of 
expectation that Mr H will have faced, and I think the compensation of £1,000 it has 
offered him is reasonable in that respect.
But I dont think that is the end of the problems that have been caused by the 
incorrect quotations Aviva has provided over the years.
Mr H has told us that he fully intended to put his pension savings into payment in 
November 2019. He says he asked for a quotation of the transfer value so that he 
could compare the guaranteed annuity offered by Aviva with those he might be able 
to obtain on the open market. But Mr H says that, due to the guarantees Aviva 
offered, he expected that he would most likely take the annuity offered by Aviva.
 
But Mr H says his plans were altered by the discovery of the errors Aviva had made. 
He says that he didnt want to take any irrevocable decisions about his pension 
benefits until he had been assured that Avivas calculations were accurate. And 
although Aviva says it corrected the basic valuation fairly quickly it took until 
July 2020 before it was able to reassure Mr H about the impact of the enhanced 
benefits due to the removal of the commission payments.
I have thought carefully about what Mr H has said. And it is in this respect that my 
decision deviates from the assessment made by our investigator. I have seen that 
Mr H had requested similar quotations from Aviva in the preceding years, but not 
then decided to put his pension savings into payment  in fact Mr H says that the 
growth of the pension savings persuaded him to leave them with Aviva for a further 
period of time. So what I need to decide is whether it is plausible that Mr H would 
have acted differently in 2019 to his actions in previous years, and actually taken his 
pension benefits.
I have found Mr Hs testimony to be plausible throughout my investigations. He hasnt 
provided me with anything that would lead me to doubt that he has been anything 
other than entirely honest in what he has said. So in the absence of any evidence to 
the contrary I am persuaded that he would have most likely proceeded with taking his 
pension benefits in late 2019 had nothing gone wrong. Mr H has explained that his 
wife was planning to retire, and so the additional income was needed for the household. And by 2019 Mr H had reached 72 years of age  so he only had another 
three years before he was required by legislation to put his pension into payment.
I think that the significant discrepancies identified in the transfer values in 2019 would 
reasonably have led any consumer to pause in their decision making. Mr H has said 
that he thinks it right to know the cost of a purchase before making a final 
commitment. And I think that is an entirely reasonable argument to make. So I am 
not persuaded that Mr H failing to put his pension into payment, during his 
discussions with Aviva, or during our consideration of the complaint, should make me 
think it unlikely he would have proceeded in November 2019 had nothing gone 
wrong.
So my conclusion, admittedly on the balance of probability, is that Mr H would have 
taken his pension benefits shortly after asking for the quotation from Aviva in 
November 2019.
Since that date, the value of Mr Hs pension benefits has fallen. Aviva has needed to 
adjust the final bonusses attributed to the pension plans to reflect changes in the 
market conditions. So I think that Avivas error, and the time it took to provide Mr H 
with any reassurance that its calculations were now correct, has directly resulted in 
the amount of pension that Mr H might receive being reduced.
So I currently think that Avivas errors have resulted in Mr H experiencing a direct 
financial loss, and Aviva needs to put things right.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Both Mr H and Aviva have said that they accept my provisional findings 
and so havent provided us with any further evidence or arguments.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties have said they agree with my provisional decision, and so havent 
provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see no reason to alter the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows therefore that I uphold Mr Hs 
complaint and direct Aviva to put things right for him as set out below.  
Putting things right
By providing incorrect transfer values between 2013 and 2019 Aviva has agreed that it gave 
Mr H an expectation that he might receive a higher amount than he was entitled to. For that 
loss of expectation Aviva has offered to pay Mr H £1,000. I think that is a fair offer and 
should be paid on Mr Hs acceptance of this final decision.  
I have accepted that it was reasonable for Mr H to delay putting his pension savings into 
payment during the period that Aviva was recalculating the transfer value of his pension 
savings, and whilst the complaint has been with this Service. I am persuaded that, but for 
Avivas errors, Mr H would most likely have taken his pension benefits in late 2019. I think it 
likely that a period of time would have elapsed where Mr H compared the annuity that could 
be purchased on the open market using the quoted transfer value with the annuity that Aviva 
offered, so it is likely that any annuity wouldnt have commenced until the start of 2020. But 
I think those decisions would have been based on quotations most likely issued shortly after 
Mr H contacted Aviva in November 2019.To put things right Aviva should provide Mr H with an opportunity to action a quotation based 
on the value of his pension savings as at 16 November 2019. That quotation should offer 
Mr H the opportunity to take the guaranteed annuity that would have been available at that 
time, or the appropriate transfer value should he decide to access his benefits from an 
alternative provider. 
Should Mr H decide to take the annuity from Aviva, it should be set up with a 
commencement date of 1 January 2020. Any annuity payments due from that date should be 
paid to Mr H. I make no direction that Aviva should add any compensatory interest to these 
payments. 
I think it reasonable that any redress draws a line under this matter. So any quotation issued 
by Aviva following Mr Hs acceptance of this final decision should only be valid for a period of 
four weeks after its receipt by Mr H. Should it not be accepted within that period of time 
I think it fair that the quotation should lapse, and any further retirement quotations should be 
based on the actual value of Mr Hs pension savings at that time.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to put things right as detailed above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman