DRN-4284851
The complaint
Mr S has complained that hes been unable to get a new preferential interest rate product on 
his mortgage that he holds with National Westminster Bank Plc.
Mr S holds this mortgage jointly with his former partner. His former partner told NatWest that 
he doesnt agree to this mortgage being put on a new interest rate product.
What happened
Mr S and his former partner took out this mortgage in 2008 on a fixed interest rate of 5.99% 
until 31 March 2010, after which it would revert to the standard variable rate (which at the 
time of the mortgage offer was 7.69%).
Mr S and his former partner separated many years ago, with his former partner leaving the 
property. And, since 2014, the account has been in arrears at various times over the years.
In February 2022 and February 2023 Mr S was led to believe he could obtain a new 
preferential interest rate product, which wasnt possible because his former partner had 
already expressly said he wouldnt agree to it.
Unhappy about what had happened, Mr S complained to NatWest. NatWest said that both 
parties would need to agree to any new rate, and as his former partner had said he didnt 
agree the mortgage remained on the standard variable rate.
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked at it. He said that NatWest hadnt done anything wrong in not allowing 
the mortgage to move to a new preferential rate. But he did think NatWest should pay £200 
compensation to Mr S as it raised his expectations that it would be possible.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He also wanted to know more 
information about what his former partner had said and when about this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S wanted a further week to provide his final submissions. Were now 
another few weeks on from there and, despite a reminder of the final deadline from our 
Investigator, nothing further has been received from Mr S. We cant keep cases in abeyance 
indefinitely and so, as the final deadline has passed, Ill now decide this complaint based on 
the information already held on file.
I purposely havent mentioned Mr S specific personal circumstances in this decision to 
protect his privacy, but I can confirm that I have read and understood everything that has 
been said about that. I would like to thank Mr S for how open he has been with us and 
NatWest. It is clear things havent been easy for him, and I hope he will accept my best 
wishes.
This mortgage remains in joint names, and although only Mr S is party to this complaint, his 
former partner is still liable for the mortgage. Its not in dispute that Mr S is, in practice, the 
only one paying this mortgage and has been for many years.
As the mortgage is on the standard variable rate, it means he must pay more each month 
than if a preferential interest rate was available. I accept that its not as easy for him to pay a 
higher payment, and hed rather pay less.
However, I must also bear in mind that his former partner is still party to the mortgage  and 
therefore still liable for the monthly payments, as well as the overall outstanding debt.
If a new interest rate product was arranged on the mortgage, that would reduce the monthly 
payments Mr S is paying. However, it would also tie both of them into the mortgage for the 
length of the rate when Mr S former partner has been clear that isnt his wish. If the 
mortgage came to an end during that period, there would be an early repayment charge. 
This would increase the debt that his former partner is liable for  and also reduce his share 
of the equity in the property. Given their relationship has broken down but their finances 
have not yet been fully separated (due to this mortgage still remaining jointly held), that 
wouldnt be in either of their best interests. And the same would be true were a product fee 
to be added to the loan. Put together, that means any change to the interest rate product 
could be detrimental to Mr S former partner.
In all the circumstances, I dont think NatWest has done anything wrong. It was caught in the 
middle of a dispute in wishes between Mr S and his former partner. As a joint party to the 
mortgage, Mr S former partner has the same rights as Mr S in relation to the contractual 
terms and they cant be varied in a way that would be detrimental without his consent. 
Without that consent it wasnt possible to change the mortgage product. 
I understand that Mr S would like more information about what his former partner said and 
when, but that isnt something either we or NatWest can tell him as it relates to his former 
partners personal data, so isnt disclosable without the former partners consent. 
I dont know what Mr S plans are in relation to the property. It might help Mr S to speak to a 
financial or legal adviser to find out what his options are in this respect. However, in the 
absence of any consent from Mr S former partner, changes cant be made to this mortgage.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. But after giving the matter careful 
consideration, Im unable to find that NatWest has acted unfairly or unreasonably in all the 
circumstances of this case.
All that said, I appreciate Mr S hopes were raised when he thought a new product could be 
arranged. Ive thought carefully about what hes told us, including his difficult personal 
circumstances, but I can only award compensation for the impact on him of NatWests 
mistake in raising his hopes. My award is only intended to compensate Mr S for any distress 
and inconvenience he suffered due to that loss of expectation, not because of the fact he 
couldnt get a new interest rate product.
After very careful thought I consider the Investigators recommendation of £200 is a fair and 
reasonable amount to reflect the impact of that. My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr S £200 for the loss of 
expectation that a new rate could be achieved.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman