DRN-3742728
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc stopped two cheques she wrote.
What happened
Miss C wrote cheques to her daughter on 7 January 2022 and 18 February 2022. HSBC did 
not process them as one of its fraud prevention systems detected the signatures did not 
match the signature samples it held for Miss C. In such circumstances its policy is that it has 
to speak to the customer to check the payment is valid. It accepted that on 7 January it failed 
to complete this process and so offered Miss C £50 to apologise. On 18 February it made 
the call but Miss C was unhappy to speak to the bank and so it could not proceed with 
payment. 
Miss C says the bank is denying her access to her own money; she does not want it to make 
these kind of checks; it is not making reasonable adjustments as it must to accommodate 
her disability; and it is making discriminatory decisions because of her race.
Our investigator said HSBC had not acted unfairly when it stopped the cheques. It did so to 
protect Miss Cs money as the signatures dd not match and so it needed to speak to her. 
She said HSBC had now offered a further £50 compensation for not completing the follow up 
calls on the first cheque, and for the inconvenience this caused. She felt this was a fair 
resolution. She did not find evidence that HSBC had discriminated against Miss C. And 
noted it had offered to send a new signature card by post so Miss C could avoid a branch 
visit thus taking into account her disability. She also explained how a more recent and 
separate issue (Miss C failed security on a call) could be resolved.
Unhappy with this assessment Miss C asked for an ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered all of the points Miss C has raised during the investigation. 
Where she has raised issues (such as the third cheque) that the investigator has resolved, 
and in keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service I will focus here, as our 
rules allow, on the points I find to be material to the outcome of Miss Cs complaint. 
In simple terms, the legal position is as follows. Where money is held on deposit, the
relationship between a customer and their bank is primarily that of debtor and creditor. When
dealing with a customers order to make a money transfer the bank acts as the customers
agent in executing the instruction. An agent owes a principal a duty to exercise reasonable
skill and care in carrying out the principals instructions. So, a bank has a duty to its
customer to take reasonable care when making such a payment.
With this in mind, a bank is under a duty to refrain from making a payment if it has
reasonable grounds for believing, for example, that the instruction relates to fraud or any
other criminal act. Given the banks obligations to protect its customers from
potential fraud or scams, it can be expected to make reasonable enquiries including 
but not limited to  the circumstances surrounding the payment instruction, in this case the 
cheques.
Against those obligations however, the bank also has a contractual duty to execute a valid
and proper order to complete its customers instruction.
In this context, when the banks automated system flagged discrepancies with the signatures 
on the cheques I understand why HSBC wanted to carry out further checks. Miss C has said 
she doesnt want these kinds of checks on her account, but they are there to protect her and 
to allow the bank to be sure payment instructions are valid, and made by Miss C herself. I 
understand Miss Cs frustration as such checks can cause delays, but from what I have seen 
HSBC never suggested she was not entitled to the money which it holds in her name. I find, 
for her and its own protection, it was fair and reasonable that it first wanted to check she had 
signed the cheques.
With the first cheque the bank did fail to make a follow up call, but it has acknowledged this. 
Following our involvement it offered to increase the compensation for this error by a further 
£50 to a total of £100. I find this to be fair in the circumstances: the error was a one-off and 
the impact was short-lived.
Miss Cs point that her signature will change given her condition is fair and reasonable. 
Given the circumstances, I would expect HSBC to consider making a reasonable adjustment 
here, this is a legal obligation  though in law HSBC is only required to make adjustments 
which are reasonable, and which dont fundamentally alter the nature of its service. If Miss C 
opts to use cheques the bank still needs to be able to check the authenticity of her signature 
to ensure she does not fall victim to fraud.
HSBC provided some options to Miss C. It offered to update the signature samples it holds 
and said this can be done by post, so she does not have to go to a branch. And it has not 
restricted the frequency at which she could update her signature samples. It also suggested 
she could make payments in different ways that are not reliant on a physical signature done 
remotely. I understand that having to go to a branch to make payments does not work for 
Miss C, but HSBC also said she could call and it can process payments over the phone for 
her. I feel the options HSBC has presented to Miss C are reasonable. I accept Miss Cs 
preferred option would be that her signature on cheques does not go through any 
authentication checks, but I dont think it is unreasonable for HSBC not to offer that option, 
due to its security processes that are in place to protect its customers.
In terms of Miss Cs point about discrimination, it is for the Courts to determine if a business
has acted unlawfully. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of each particular case. In reaching that decision, we will consider various
factors including relevant law and what we see as good industry practice from the time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not HSBC has breached the Equality Act
2010, Im required to take it into account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did so as part of my review of this case. Miss C did not submit any specific evidence for me 
to consider in support of her claim of racial discrimination. For the reasons Ive set out 
above, from what I have seen Im satisfied that HSBCs actions were fair and reasonable.
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs C was hoping for, but I hope she can take some
comfort from what Ive said and the knowledge that an independent third-party has reviewedHSBCs actions and found no conclusive failings, with the exception of the missed follow up 
call for the January cheque.
Putting things right
HSBC should pay Miss C the additional £50 compensation if has offered.
My final decision
I am upholding Miss Cs complaint in part in relation to its failure to make a follow up call in 
January 2022. HSBC UK Bank Plc must put this right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman