DRN-4316437
The complaint
In summary, Miss T complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua Classic), provided her with 
a credit card and credit limit increases that she wasnt able to afford. She is also unhappy 
with it not responding to her complaint. I will refer to NewDay throughout the decision. 
What happened
In November 2018, Miss T applied for a credit card with NewDay. The application was 
approved and a credit limit of £300 was provided. NewDay explained to this service that the 
underwriting data it used didnt highlight any affordability concerns. 
In April 2019, NewDay increased the credit limit to £1,050 and it increased it again at the end 
of July 2019 to £1,800. In August 2021 it increased the credit limit to £3,300. 
NewDay has said that there were no signs of any financial difficulties prior to the credit limit 
increases.  It went on to explain that the creditworthiness and affordability assessment it 
carried out showed no evidence of missed payments and signs of over indebtedness.
Miss Ts concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. They explained why they 
thought the initial lending provided and first limit increase provided to Miss T was affordable. 
They went on to explain why they didnt think the second and final limit increase should have 
been provided to Miss T.
NewDay didnt respond to our investigators opinion, so the case has been passed to me to 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ts complaint in part. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if NewDay treated Miss T 
fairly and reasonably when it provided her with the credit card.
1) Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
T would be able to repay her credit card in a sustainable way? 
2) If NewDay didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks, what would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
3) Ultimately, did NewDay make a fair lending decision?  
4) Did NewDay act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss T 
would be able to repay her credit card in a sustainable way? 
The rules that NewDay had to follow, required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess, whether Miss T could afford to repay the credit card she wanted to take 
out. This is often referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks NewDay needed to carry out, but it did set out 
that those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think 
what this meant in practice, was that the scope and extent of NewDays checks needed to 
reflect the nature of the lending, bearing in mind things such as the amount of credit, the 
interest rate, and any indications of customer vulnerability. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
The checks NewDay needed to carry out as part of its affordability assessment, had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this, is that the checks needed to consider whether the 
credit provided, and the monthly repayments, would cause Miss T any difficulties or have 
any adverse consequences for her. 
And as a result of the above, I think reasonable and proportionate checks needed to be 
more thorough if Miss T had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult 
for her to make the card repayments with a low income. It would also need to be more 
thorough the higher the amounts she had to repay, as it would be more difficult to make 
higher monthly repayments on a given income. 
With these principles in mind, Ive thought about whether NewDay completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss T would be able to repay her credit card in 
a sustainable way.
In summary then, the circumstances of the initial credit card application were as follows:
Miss T was applying for a credit card which had an initial APR of 34.9%. 
Miss T was recorded by NewDay as having a gross annual income of approximately 
£25,699 when the credit card was taken out. 
Miss T was offered an initial credit limit of £300. 
The credit report obtained by NewDay in respect of Miss T as part of its underwriting 
process, showed no evidence of accounts in arrears. It recorded total unsecured credit 
balances of £11,400.
The credit limit of £300 that NewDay approved was in my opinion, a relatively low credit limit. 
So, I wouldnt necessarily have expected NewDay to have carried out extensive checks 
given the information it had about Miss Ts financial circumstances. And from the evidence 
Ive been provided with, I can see that it did carry out checks to verify information about 
Miss Ts financial circumstances. The credit search it carried out indicates that she had no 
accounts in arrears or any defaults. And I think taking into account Miss Ts financial 
circumstances and the relatively low amount of credit it was offering her, the checks that 
NewDay carried out when the account was opened, were reasonable and proportionate in 
the context of the credit it was proposing to provide to Miss T.
First credit limit increaseNewDay increased Miss Ts credit limit to £1,050 in April 2019. I think given the short period 
of time that had elapsed since the card was taken out, its not unreasonable to assume that 
Miss Ts income was unlikely to have changed. NewDay has provided credit file information 
from the time the increase was provided. This doesnt appear to show any evidence of 
missed payments or other adverse information. And Miss Ts overall level of borrowing was 
around the same level as when the account was opened. She appeared to be managing her 
account, making regular payment with no missed payments with the credit limit not being 
exceeded.
Taking into account Miss Ts financial circumstances and the checks that NewDay carried 
out when it increased her credit limit, I think these were reasonable and proportionate in the 
context of the increased lending it was providing to Miss T.
Second credit limit increase
At the end of July 2019 NewDay increased Miss Ts credit limit again by £750 to £1,800 a 
few months after the first limit increase. NewDay has provided credit file information from the 
time the limit increase was provided. This doesnt appear to show any evidence of missed 
payments or other adverse information. And Miss Ts overall level of borrowing was still 
around the same level as when the second credit limit increase was provided. 
The increased credit limit of a further £750 to £1,800 that NewDay approved, provided 
Miss T in my opinion, with a significant credit limit.  Although the unsecured borrowing 
remained around the same level, Miss Ts revolving credit had increased from £500 when 
the account was first taken out to £1,150. I think given the level of the increased limit and 
taking into the account the statement balance was close to the existing limit and had been 
for a number of months since the first limit increase had been provided, the checks carried 
out by NewDay werent reasonable or proportionate in relation to this credit limit increase, 
and the overall level of credit being provided to Miss T. 
Miss T has provided copies of her bank statements for the three-month period prior to this 
lending decision, which I think give an indication of the information about her financial 
circumstances that reasonable and proportionate checks might have shown. These show 
that Miss Ts account was in the main, in overdraft in the months leading up to the credit limit 
increase. 
So, I think if NewDay had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, it would have 
realised that Miss Ts circumstances were such that she couldnt reasonably afford the 
additional credit it was providing to her. The statements in my opinion clearly show that 
Miss T wasnt managing her finances in a sustainable way. And the provision of further credit 
would I believe, only exacerbate what was a clearly difficult financial situation for her.
Third credit limit increase
NewDay increased Miss Ts credit limit again to £3,300 in August 2021. NewDay has 
provided credit file information from the time the limit increase was provided. This doesnt 
appear to show any evidence of missed payments or other adverse information. And Miss 
Ts overall level of borrowing was still around the same level as when the second credit limit 
increase was provided. However, the increased credit limit from £1,800 to £3,300 that NewDay approved, was in my 
opinion, a significant credit limit increase. I think given the level of the increased limit and 
taking into the account the statement balance was close to the existing limit and had been 
for a number of months since the second credit limit increase had been provided, the checks 
carried out by NewDay werent reasonable or proportionate in relation to this credit limit 
increase. 
Miss T has also provided copies of her bank statements for the three-month period prior to 
this lending decision, which I think give an indication of the information about her financial 
circumstances that reasonable and proportionate checks might have shown. These show 
that Miss Ts account was again in the main, in overdraft in the three months leading up to 
the credit limit increase. And her financial circumstances dont appear to have fundamentally 
changed since the second credit limit increase in 2019. So, I think if NewDay had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks it would have realised that Miss Ts circumstances 
were such that she couldnt reasonably afford the additional credit it was providing to her.
Did NewDay make a fair lending decision?  
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I think that in the particular circumstances of Miss Ts 
case, NewDay shouldnt have provided her with the second and third credit limit increases 
that it did. 
NewDay accepts it didnt respond to Miss Ts complaint as a result of errors on its part. I 
think the £50 compensation it has offered is fair and reasonable to compensate Miss T for 
the inconvenience this has caused her. 
Putting things right
What NewDay should do to put things right
In most cases where credit has been provided where it shouldnt have been, it would be fair 
and reasonable for the lender to refund any interest and charges paid by the borrower. And 
the borrower would usually be expected to pay any remaining amount of the money they had 
been lent. So, I would expect Miss T to pay back the money she was lent, but not the 
interest or any charges or fees. 
With this in mind, NewDay should put things right for Miss T by doing the following:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied to balances over £1,050.
If the rework results in a credit balance on the account, this should be refunded to 
Miss T along with 8% simple interest a year* calculated from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. And NewDay should remove any adverse 
information reported to Miss Ts credit file about this account after 31 July 2019.
Or, if after the rework an outstanding balance remains, NewDay should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss T for the remaining amount. Once Miss T has 
cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 31 July 
2019 in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to take off tax from this interest. NewDay must 
give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. NewDay should (if it hasnt already done so) pay Miss T £50 for the inconvenience caused 
by its delays in responding to her complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is to uphold Miss Ts complaint in part.  NewDay Limited (trading as Aqua 
Classic), needs to calculate and pay Miss T compensation if she has suffered a loss, using 
the methodology set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman