DRN-3162155
The complaint
Mr M complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited refused his request to reject a faulty car.
What happened
 In December 2020 Mr M acquired a second hand car costing £16,000 funded in part by a 
hire purchase agreement. It was some six years old and had covered 33,000 miles. In early 
May 2021 the car broke down having covered a further 3,125 miles and was towed to the 
dealer. The car was taken to another garage and it said: that a replacement engine was 
needed. It noted that the engine oil was low and the tyres were bald. It suspected the cause 
was a combination of the low oil level and aggressive driving.
Mr M complained to MotoNovo and it asked an independent engineer to inspect the car He 
reported:
Based on our inspection of the vehicle, we would conclude that the vehicle does appear to 
have suffered from engine failure and further investigation is required to ascertain the root 
cause and what remedial action is required.
We would advise, based on the evidence currently available to ourselves at the time of 
inspection, that we do not consider the faults to have been present at the point of finance 
inception
MotoNovo rejected Mr Ms request and so he made a complaint to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld.
He said that it was not disputed that the car had a fault and the engine suffered a 
catastrophic failure. He noted the independent report which said that further enquiries were 
needed, but concluded that the fault had not been present at the point of sale.
He noted the warranty provider had refused to accept a claim on the basis of the assertion 
that the car may have been driven aggressively. He said the car has passed its MOT some 
six months before the sale and the dealer had not supplied any evidence of the state of the 
tyres at the point of sale. He wasnt convinced that the driving style of Mr M was an 
adequate explanation for the engine failure.
He concluded that it most likely that the car was faulty at the point of sale and that Mr M 
should be allowed to reject it. MotoNovo didnt agree and said it didnt believe Mr M would 
have been able to drive the car for over 3,000 miles if it had been faulty when he acquired it. 
It said the independent inspector didnt consider it would have been faulty and the repairing 
garage said: Suspected cause for engine failure to be a combination of engine oil level 
being significantly lo driving aggressively. 
It said this view wasnt based solely on the wear on the tyres. It said the lack of a service 
history was not unusual and was probably stored on the cars infotainment system. It 
believed the cause was a failure of the cars oil system after the point of sale exacerbated by 
driving style. It also believed that repair was a more appropriate response rather than 
rejection. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have given a great deal of consideration to this complaint and after due deliberation I have 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator. I will explain why.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
MotoNovo is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The fault occurred within six months of the sale and the onus is on MotoNovo to 
demonstrate that the car was fit for purpose at the point of sale. It asked an independent 
assessor to give his view. I note that he has stated that further investigation was required to 
establish the cause. However, he goes on to say that based on current evidence he believes 
the car was not faulty at the point of sale.
I find that somewhat confusing. If he was unable to establish the cause I struggle see how 
he could conclude that the faults arose after purchase. My view is that his conclusion that 
further investigation was needed is one I can accept and the report simply shows that cause 
remained uncertain. 
I have noted the other view expressed by repairing garage and accepted by the warranty 
company that the cause was, in effect, down to aggressive driving. It says the oil level was 
low and the tyres were bald. I dont know what oil levels were in the car when it was sold. I 
can see that Mr M told MotoNovo that he had put oil in the car some two after acquisition. I 
gather he didnt notice an oil leak.
I find it hard to believe that driving style over a relatively short period of less than six months 
and 3,125 miles is a credible explanation for the catastrophic failure of the engine. I do have 
some concerns that Mr M was able to make use of the car before its failure and I can see 
why MotoNovo have argued that this indicates that whatever went wrong was caused after 
the sale. However, it is possible for an underling fault not to present itself immediately and it 
seems there was an oil issue which on balance I suspect was present at the point of sale.One of the key elements I have to consider is durability and given the relatively low mileage 
and short period time which elapsed before the breakdown I think it more likely that the fault 
was present at the point of sale.
I think the point at which a repair may have been considered has passed and I believe 
rejection is the fairest way of resolving the complaint.
Putting things right
 MotoNovo should compensate Mr M as set out below. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct MotoNovo Finance Limited to: 
cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay,
arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr M,
refund Mr Ms deposit/trade in contribution,
refund all but three monthly payments that Mr M has made to cover the usage of the 
car,
refund Mr M the cost of the inspection and recovery totaling £526.40,
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement,
pay a further amount of £50 for any distress or inconvenience thats been caused 
due to the faulty goods,
remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit file in relation to the agreement, if 
any has been reported.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman