DRN-2798528
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has turned down a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy for cancelled flights.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker in May 2019. The 
policy was underwritten by ERGO. When they took out the policy, Mr and Mrs S declared a 
number of medical conditions, including Mrs S asthma, which ERGO agreed to cover. In 
December 2019, Mr and Mrs S booked a holiday to a country Ill call A. They were due to 
travel in mid-February 2020 and fly via a country Ill call H, with a scheduled transfer there.
However, due to cases of Covid-19 affecting H, Mr and Mrs S saw their GP to check whether 
it was safe for them to fly via that route, given Mrs S asthma. The GP told Mrs S that given 
her illness, she might have an increased risk of getting Covid-19. So he didnt think it was 
appropriate for her to travel via H. On this basis, Mr and Mrs S cancelled their flights and 
booked new flights to A via another country which Ill call D. They made a claim on their 
travel insurance policy for the costs of their cancelled flights.
ERGO turned down the claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy didnt cover Mr 
and Mrs S situation.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with ERGOs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs S complaint should be upheld. He felt the 
cancellation cover under the policy only applied if a whole trip was cancelled. Mr and Mrs S 
trip hadnt been cancelled - part of their trip had been rearranged. And he didnt think there 
was any other section of the policy which covered their circumstances. So he thought it was 
fair for ERGO to turn down Mr and Mrs S claim.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They said that if they hadnt been able to find an alternative route, 
they wouldve had to cancel the whole trip due to Mrs S asthma.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, I think it was fair for ERGO to 
turn down their claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So in deciding whether ERGO handled Mr and 
Mrs S claim fairly, Ive considered, amongst other things, the policy terms and conditions 
and the circumstances of the claim.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs S policy, as these form the 
basis of their contract with ERGO. As Mr and Mrs S original flights via H were cancelled 
before they travelled, I think it was appropriate for ERGO to consider the claim under the 
cancellation section of the policy. This says:
Cancellation applies for booked trips taking place within the period of cover that you are 
forced to cancel because of one of the following, which are beyond your control, and of 
which you were unaware at the time you booked your trip or purchased the cover (whichever 
is later)(Bold is my emphasis).
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have 
arranged to stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of 
your outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay.
c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or being
summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or advisory
capacity).
d) you being made redundant, provided you qualify for a redundancy payment under
current United Kingdom legislation.
e) your presence is required by the Police because of accidental damage, burglary,
flooding or fire which has affected your home, and has occurred within 48 hours 
before the start of your trip, when the damage is in excess of £1,500.
f) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or all but 
essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood, or 
hurricane.
ERGO has defined what it means by a trip in the policy wording. It considers a trip to be:
a holiday or journey for leisure purposes that takes place during the period of cover which
begins when you leave home, and ends when you return home, or to a hospital or nursing 
home in the United Kingdom, whichever is earlier.
In this case, its clear that Mr and Mrs S decided to cancel their pre-booked flights to A via H 
on Mrs S GPs advice, given she suffered from asthma. I can see from the doctors letter 
that the GP told Mrs S that she might be more susceptible to Covid-19 and so it wouldnt be 
appropriate for her to travel through an infected area. So I can entirely understand why Mr 
and Mrs S cancelled their original flight and made new arrangements.
But I have to bear in mind that the GP didnt advise Mrs S against travelling at all. Theres no 
suggestion that Mrs S had suffered an unexpected flare-up of her illness which prevented 
her from taking the holiday. And the GPs letter doesnt indicate that the he advised Mr and 
Mrs S to cancel their whole trip. Mr and Mrs S were still able to take their trip to A, they 
simply arranged to fly via D instead. So I dont think I could fairly conclude that their overall 
trip was cancelled. The cancellation section of the policy covers the cancellation of trips, 
rather than the re-arrangement of individual parts of it, such as flights. And as such I dont 
think it was unreasonable for ERGO to conclude that the claim wasnt covered by this 
section of the contract.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S had declared their medical conditions to ERGO and these had 
been accepted for cover. But this doesnt mean that ERGO will cover all eventualities which 
might be linked to a pre-existing condition. The event which leads to the claim will generally 
need to be down to something the policy covers. And I understand Mr and Mrs S have said 
that if they couldnt have rearranged flights to A which didnt go through a Covid-affected 
area, they wouldve cancelled their trip. Ive thought about this. But I need to make my 
decision based what did happen. In this case, Mr and Mrs S were able to find new flights and take their planned holiday. So I cant fairly uphold their complaint based on a hypothetical 
situation.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs S position, as Im aware theyre significantly out 
of pocket, I dont think it was unfair for ERGO to turn down their claim. So Im not telling it to 
do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman