DRN-1602634
 
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about UK Insurance Company Limited (UKI). She feels the actions of 
UKIs roadside assistance provider under her breakdown insurance policy, caused the 
engine of her car to be damaged beyond repair.
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs S purchased oil from a car supplies store. Mr S poured in too much oil 
by mistake and she was advised to drive slowly to a garage to remove some of the excess 
oil. After driving for a short period of time, one or two minutes, the car started to produce 
smoke. At this point she stopped and called for roadside assistance.
When the roadside assistance arrived, the technician asked Mr S to move the car a short 
distance because it was parked illegally on zig-zag lines. The car was eventually towed to a 
garage for repair. But the garage the car was recovered to told Mrs S the engine was 
damaged beyond repair and said the car should have been towed and not driven. 
Mrs S says the car started when it was moved off the zig zag lines but was completely 
broken down when it arrived at the garage. Because of this Mrs S feels the roadside 
assistance providers actions were the main cause of the damage to her cars engine. So, 
she complained to UKI and then this service.
UKI accept Mrs S should not have been asked to move the car but say, the engine had 
already been damaged beyond repair before it was moved from the zig zag lines. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs S but didnt uphold her complaint. She was of the 
view UKI had acted reasonably. This was because there was no evidence to show moving 
the car a few feet after Mrs S had stopped initially was the sole cause of the damage to the 
engine.
As Mrs S didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I understand this incident would have been very distressing for Mrs S and it has resulted in 
her car needing an expensive repair. But I dont think it is fair to ask UKI to cover either 
some or all the cost of the new engine.
I say this as the roadside assistance technician has reported when he arrived there was oil 
in the exhaust system and thought the turbo seal had failed. His notes from the time also 
indicate he felt the engine had extensive damage.UKI also contacted the garage the car was recovered to and spoke to the engineer. The 
engineer told UKI he did not think the roadside assistance provider was responsible for the 
damage to the engine.
UKI also took advice from an engineer in its technical department, who said the damage 
would have been done when Mrs S had overfilled the car and initially drove it. They said 
starting the car and driving it a few feet after she had broken down wouldnt have caused 
additional damage.
I know Mrs S feels UKI is responsible for the damage to her cars engine. But there is no 
expert evidence which suggests the roadside assistance technicians advice to move the car 
a few feet, was the main cause of the damage. 
So, although I understand Mrs S feels very strongly that UKI were responsible, I think it has 
acted reasonably when it found the recovery technician's advice was not the cause of the 
engine damage. Because of this I dont think its fair to ask UKI to pay for the damage to the 
engine or do any more.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman