DRN-3961911
The complaint
Mr M and Miss W are unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) handling of a claim 
made under their buildings insurance policy. 
Any references to Ageas include its agents. 
What happened
Mr M and Miss W bought their house in 2018 and knew there had been a historic 
subsidence claim to the rear of the house. They say some six months after they moved in, 
they saw signs of cracking at the front of their home. They contacted Ageas who said the 
cracking wasnt related to subsidence, so no further action was taken.
In 2021, Mr M and Miss W contacted Ageas again about the cracking, saying it had 
worsened. This time, Ageas carried out an inspection which included investigating a trial 
hole at the front of the house. Ageas said the foundations at the front of the house werent 
sufficiently deep to support the extension, which had been built as a carport in 1996 and 
converted before Mr M and Miss W bought the house. Ageas declined their claim, relying on 
the defective workmanship clause of the policy.
Mr M and Miss W appointed an arborist and structural engineer. The structural engineer dug 
a trial hole on the side wall of the extension and found foundations bearing onto solid clay at 
850mm deep. The arborist considered the foundations were sufficiently deep and identified a 
number of trees that were likely to be the cause of the subsidence. Both experts concluded 
the property suffered significant cracking to the front and side of the house, and the adjacent 
trees were the primary cause of the subsidence.
Ageas continued to decline the claim, so Mr M and Miss W asked us to look into what 
happened. One of our investigators did so and said Ageas hadnt demonstrated which of the 
building regulations it considered the extension hadnt complied with. When Ageas went on 
to provide building regulations, our investigator didnt agree it was acting fairly. On this basis, 
she thought the claim should be considered subject to the remaining policy terms. Ageas 
didnt agree, so this matter has been passed to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the first instance, I think its helpful for me to reference the exclusion Ageas is looking to 
rely on.  
What is not insured...
d) defective design or faulty workmanship or the use of defective materials or 
inadequate construction of foundations
In order for me to decide Ageas had acted fairly in declining their claim, I need to be satisfied 
Ageas has shown the foundations of Mr M and Miss Ws house are defective in their design 
or inadequately constructed.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute Mr M and Miss Ws home is moving, and that when Ageas 
visited in January 2021, they didnt note any cracking to the flank wall. However, this was 
noted as being present later that year when the arborist and structural engineer instructed by 
Mr M and Miss W inspected the property. Ageas inspection identified the front wall had been 
built on a concrete slab at 200mm below ground level. But when the structural engineer dug 
a trial hole adjacent to the side wall extension, they found concrete blocks and foundations 
onto solid clay at excess of 850mm. The inspection by Ageas found evidence of roots as 
deep as 1.5m. So, theres some inconsistencies between the experts as to whether the 
foundations were defective or inadequate.
With this in mind, it falls to Ageas to demonstrate it can fairly rely on an exclusion set out in 
the policy. Ageas indicated the extension hadnt complied with building regulations in place 
when the extension was built as a carport or later converted. Our investigator asked Ageas 
to support this by providing a copy of the regulations it was relying on. Ageas provided a 
number of documents. The first two documents were guidelines applied by an organisation 
involved in the building of new homes. As the extension wasnt built as a new home or by 
that organisation, Im not persuaded either of those guidelines apply here. I dont think 
Ageas can reasonably rely on these. 
Ageas also sought to rely Approved Document A. But this Document came into effect from 
2010, and the extension was built before then, so I again dont consider it can be relied on. 
Finally, Ageas provided copies of Building Regulations from both 1965 and 1991. Neither 
document specifies a particular depth that the foundations must reach, so again I dont think 
Ageas can rely on these documents alone to support their view the foundations are not deep 
enough. 
Ageas hasnt shown the extension hasnt complied with building regulations. Im also mindful 
the extension stood for a number of years before showing signs of movement. Both the 
arborist and structural engineer appointed by Mr M and Miss W identified nearby trees as 
being the likely cause of the subsidence, with roots being identified as far as 1.5m deep, so 
beyond the 1m depth Ageas quoted during our investigation (albeit this was in relation to 
some documents I dont consider apply here). As Ageas has not provided evidence that 
persuades me the foundations were insufficiently deep, it follows that I dont think it acted 
fairly in declining this claim.
To put things right, I require Ageas to reconsider Mr M and Miss Ws claim, subject to the 
remaining policy terms. 
I can also see that the way Ageas has handled this claim has had a huge negative impact on 
Mr M and Miss W. Theyve told us this has caused significant worry, not only about the 
condition of their home but also to their financial situation in terms of how they might arrange 
repairs. I dont agree Ageas was fair in declining the claim and agree it should pay £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right I require Ageas Insurance 
Limited to:
- Reconsider Mr M and Miss Ws claim, subject to the remaining policy terms
- Pay them £300 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman