DRN-3139015
The complaint
Mrs T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc continued to apply fees to her credit card account 
when a payment break had been agreed. She says she was sent letters about money owing 
but when she contacted HSBC she was told she didnt need to do anything.
What happened
Mrs T says that due to the pandemic she took a three month payment holiday on her credit 
card account from April to June 2020. In July 2020 she contacted HSBC and after 
completing a form she says she was told she could take a six month break so that she 
wouldnt have anything to pay and no interest would be added for that time. She says she 
confirmed that the plan would be active straight away with nothing to pay for July. Mrs T 
says she was sent letters saying there were amounts owing on her account and she 
contacted HSBC on several occasions but says that each time she was told she didnt need 
to do anything. She contacted HSBC in November 2020 as the six months was coming to an 
end and says she was told the plan was in place until January 2021. However, she then 
discovered that the July payment had been missed and she had incurred fees for six 
months. 
HSBC says that when Mrs T called in July 2020 she was told she would be on a long term 
affordability plan and arrears would continue to be reported to the credit reference agencies. 
It says that it suspended interest and fees on the account for an extended period (including 
while the long term affordability plan was in place) and that it had suspended contact other 
than the correspondence it was obligated to send. It said the arrears reported on her account 
were correct. It did say that the long term affordability plan hadnt been processed correctly 
when originally agreed on 2 July and that this was corrected on 4 August. Because of this it 
credited Mrs Ts account with £50. After this a further goodwill payment of £100 was made 
and the interest charged during the payment holiday in April and May was refunded.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that Mrs Ts statements showed that 
the interest payments in April and May 2020 were refunded to Mrs T and that HSBC hadnt 
added any other interest or charges while the payment holiday or long term affordability plan 
were in place. He noted the letters being sent showed the minimum payment increasing but 
this was because payments werent being made and while Mrs T wasnt required to make 
payments at that time, her arrears continued to accrue. He noted the income and 
expenditure information that was gathered showed Mrs T didnt have any disposable income 
and so a payment plan couldnt be set up.
He noted the compensation that had been provided and thought this was reasonable
Mrs T didnt agree with our investigators view. She said it wasnt until May 2021 that she 
understood the long term affordability plan and that had she had the arrears explained 
sooner she wouldnt have suffered so much stress. She said that a much higher amount of 
compensation was required because of the time taken to address her complaint and the 
impact this has had on her. She said she had spent hours on the phone dealing with the 
complaint which as caused her anxiety and inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T was initially concerned that fees had been accruing on her account even though she 
had been told she didnt need to make any payments. I can understand why she was 
concerned about this and can see from the communication she had with HSBC that it was 
aware she was in financial difficulty. In such cases we would expect the bank to treat the 
customer fairly and sympathetically.
In this case a payment holiday was put in place in 2020 followed by a long term affordability 
plan. HSBC refunded the interest charged in April and May 2020 and so no interest or 
charges were applied to the account after March 2020. So, while I understand that Mrs T 
was initially concerned that she had been charged additional fees, this has been found not to 
have been the case.
Mrs T has also raised concerns about the letters that she was sent which were opened by a 
family member as she was out of the country at the time. I understand her concerns and that 
she then felt she had to make contact to clarify whether she needed to do anything. 
However, I have seen that HSBC did put correspondence on hold for a period due to Mrs Ts 
financial situation and that it has explained that the letters it sent were those it was required 
to send. 
Mrs T was concerned as she could see the minimum payment amount increasing even 
though she had agreed payments werent needed. I appreciate this caused her concerned 
but this was because she wasnt making her monthly payments (as she wasnt required to 
do at that time). HSBC has said that Mrs T was told at the time the long term affordability 
plan was set up that the arrears would continue and be reported to the credit reference 
agencies, however it appears that the details of the plan hadnt been fully understood by 
Mrs T at that time. Her calls to HSBC over the following months also hadnt clarified the 
issue for her and I can see it wasnt until May 2021 that she felt the plan had been fully 
explained. I appreciate this would have caused Mrs T distress but I can also see that she 
was offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill. I think this, along with the compensation paid for 
the mistake when the plan was set up and the other actions taken by HSBC is sufficient 
settlement to this complaint.
I understand that Mrs T feels that more compensation is required. However, in this case I 
think HSBC has worked with her. It refunded the interest charged while she was on a 
payment holiday and didnt charge interest while she was in the long term affordability plan. I 
appreciate the service provided could have been better but in this case I think the actions 
already taken by HSBC are enough.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman