DRN-4367028
The complaint
Mr E says Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited treated him unfairly when it cancelled his 
home insurance - which included legal expenses cover - policy by mistake. He says its 
mistake prejudiced his ability to pursue a legal claim. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
Mr E took out a home insurance policy with Lloyds which includes legal expenses 
cover.  
Due to an issue with Lloyds system, it didnt recognise Mr Es payment details and 
so, the premiums werent collected by Lloyds, which resulted in the policy being 
automatically cancelled. 
Although Mr E had informed Lloyds of his new mailing address, it hadnt updated his 
records and so, the letters informing him that his policy was going to be cancelled 
were sent to the incorrect address.
Mr E only became aware the policy had been cancelled when he tried to make a 
claim for legal cover following an accident. 
Mr E complained to Lloyds about the service hed received. Lloyds apologised for not 
updating his address and cancelling his policy in error. In recognition of the difficulties 
this caused Mr E, it paid him £225 in compensation. 
Lloyds said that whilst it couldnt reinstate the policy, it would set up a new one and 
back date cover to the date the original policy was cancelled  meaning Mr E would 
have continuous cover and would be able to pursue a claim under his legal expenses 
cover. Lloyds later paid an additional £50 compensation to acknowledge the 
difficulties Mr E experienced in contacting an agent to discuss his concerns.  
Mr E remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
considered it and didnt uphold it. She was satisfied the total compensation paid by 
Lloyds and its decision to set up a new policy was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr E disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached  and Ill explain 
why. But first, I want to clarify Im only considering events up until the date of Lloyds 
final response dated 12 April 2023. Im aware Mr E has another complaint with this 
Service about the time taken by Lloyds to set up the new policy and consider the 
claim, but that matter doesnt form part of this complaint. 
I understand Mr E doesnt consider the compensation Lloyds has paid to fairly reflect 
the difficulties hes experienced. He says Lloyds handling of things exacerbated the 
pain and suffering he felt following his accident. 
Im sorry to hear Mr E was involved in an accident and that he continues to 
experience stress and health issues because of it - and I dont doubt this has been a 
challenging time for him. Whilst its not my intention to minimise the impact the 
accident had on him, simply put, Lloyds isnt responsible for the pain and suffering he 
experienced as a direct result of the accident. And so, it doesnt form part of my 
consideration when determining if the compensation Lloyds has paid is fair and 
reasonable. 
I can, however, consider Lloyds actions and the impact this had on Mr E  keeping in 
mind his individual circumstances. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied Lloyds caused 
Mr E avoidable inconvenience and distress by cancelling his policy in error and by 
failing to update his mailing address details - especially when Mr E had taken 
reasonable steps to ensure Lloyds had his correct contact details. As a result of its 
mistake, he had to spend time dealing with the matter, and his frustration at having to 
do so was compounded by the difficulties he faced when trying to speak with a 
contact at Lloyds about his complaint.
Mr E has said Lloyds deprived him of cover meaning he couldnt pursue his legal 
claim  which in turn, exacerbated his pain and suffering. I agree Mr E couldnt 
pursue his legal claim when he initially intended to because the policy wasnt in place 
at that time, but Lloyds said itll set up another policy, backdate cover to ensure 
continuous cover was in place and that it would inform the legal insurance provider 
about this. So, whilst I accept Mr E experienced frustration at being told he didnt 
have legal cover, Im satisfied the actions Lloyds has said itll take to put things right 
are fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr E has said Lloyds actions has caused him physical pain. I dont doubt that this 
has been a difficult experience for him, but Im satisfied the £275 compensation fairly 
reflects the difficulties Mr E experienced and I wont be asking it to increase the 
amount of compensation it has paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman