DRN-2959296
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander), trading as Volvo Car Financial Services. 
Mrs D has been represented throughout this complaint but for ease, and as she is named on 
the finance agreement, I will refer to Mrs D in this decision.  
Santander have also been represented at times but again, for ease, I will refer to them in this 
decision.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I know it will disappoint Santander, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs D acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Santander, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mrs D. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
The relevant legislation says that if there is a fault with a car within the first six months it is to 
be assumed the fault was present from the beginning, when the business are responsible for 
the cars quality. That is unless the business can demonstrate otherwise. 
I think there was a fault with this car because Ive seen evidence the dealership completed a 
software update on it when it lost power in February 2020 only a couple of months into the 
agreement. I dont think Santander have provided any evidence to dispute that assumption 
and I therefore think it is reasonable to suggest the fault was their responsibility to put right.
Santander say that its unfair to suggest they accepted the fault and agreed to repair the car 
as they were never made aware of the issue. They say Mrs D only told the dealership and it 
was the dealerships decision to repair the car.
I dont think its fair to suggest that Mrs D should have reported the issue to Santander for 
them to approve the repair. I think its highly likely that, if she had, they would have 
discussed the issue with the dealership; the outcome would have been the same, and a 
repair would have been completed. Santander are not experts in car maintenance, and I 
think its highly likely they would have accepted the dealerships proposal. 
So, I think its fair to say there was a repair to this car for a fault that was most likely to have 
been present at the point of supply, when Santander were responsible for the cars quality.
The relevant legislation says that if the repair attempt fails the consumer should be allowed 
to reject the car.
Mrs Ds representative contacted the dealership on 26 May 2020 asking to reject the car 
when the fault reoccurred. I cant see that Mrs D approved a further repair and I think she 
should therefore be allowed to reject the car.
Santander say that they have never been given a chance to repair the vehicle and should be 
allowed to do so. Theyve provided several examples of decisions this service has made 
where they say we have supported that sort of reasoning.
Ive looked at those cases, but I dont think it would be fair to suggest any of them mirror the 
specific issues found in this complaint.
Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Santander to allow Mrs D 
to reject the car and I think it would be because:
I think there was a fault that was present from the beginning and for which a repair 
hasnt been successful;
I think an initial repair attempt by the dealership was inevitable regardless of whether 
Mrs D had reported it to Santander or not;
I dont think a further repair was approved by Mrs D. She asked to reject it would 
have been fair to accept that reasonable request. 
Putting things right
Santander should allow Mrs D to reject the car and end the finance agreement with nothing 
more to pay.
Mrs D asked to reject the car on 26 May 2020, and I understand that Mrs D hasnt collected 
the car since it was repaired without her authorisation in late May 2020. 
So, Santander should refund any payments shes made towards the car from that date and 
they should add 8% interest as Mrs D has been deprived of that money. Mrs D has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to return the car to the 
dealership on a few occasions and I can see that the loss of power she experienced led to 
an accident and to calls for roadside assistance. Shes also had to escalate her complaint to 
this service when I think Santander could have resolved it earlier for her. In those 
circumstances Im asking Santander to pay Mrs D £200 to compensate her for the distress 
and inconvenience shes experienced.
This was a hire agreement, so a deposit wasnt paid. An advance payment of £1,100.94 was 
paid but was one of 36 equal payments against the agreement. So, Im not persuaded there 
were any upfront payments made towards this hire that need to be refunded to Mrs D.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
allow Mrs D to reject the car and terminate the finance agreement at no further cost;
refund any finance instalments made by Mrs D since 26 May 2020 when she asked 
to reject the car. Add 8% simple interest per year to this refund from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mrs D £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced; 
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Ds credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman