DRN-3443845
The complaint
Mr P has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a 
Platinum account. Mr P has also explained that he was given insufficient information about 
the account benefits and is also unhappy that he had insurance claims declined under the 
travel, breakdown and mobile phone insurance benefits that came with the account. Mr P is 
also unhappy with the service he received when making his complaint.
What happened
NatWest agreed that Mr Ps Platinum account had been mis-sold and so refunded the 
account fees, with interest, in line with this services general approach to redress where we 
think a packaged account has been mis-sold. It also paid Mr P £20 for the service he 
received during the complaint process.
NatWest said that it gave Mr P enough information about the account benefits over the time 
that he held the account and said that if Mr P thought his insurance claims were declined 
incorrectly, he would have to direct his concerns to the providers of those policies.
One of our adjudicators looked into this and they thought that what NatWest had already 
done was sufficient. Mr P did not agree and has asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mr Ps complaint.
In this instance all parties agree that the Platinum account was mis-sold and therefore all I 
am looking into is whether what NatWest has already done is reasonable. 
At this point, it might help for me to explain that, where we think that a packaged bank 
account has been mis-sold, any redress we recommend is intended to put the consumer 
back in the position they would have been in if the mis-sale had not occurred. 
Usually, this means getting the bank to refund all the account fees paid by a consumer, plus 
an amount of interest on each fee - to reflect the fact that a consumer has not had the 
benefit of that money since the fee was taken from the account. NatWest has already done 
this and has also refunded overdraft fees that whenever they were incurred directly because 
of the packaged bank account fees. I think overall that this is reasonable.
In relation to the information provided about the account benefits, I am satisfied that it is 
more likely than not that a welcome pack wouldve been provided during the initial sale. I can 
also see that annual eligibility statements were issued during the time Mr P held the account. 
So I believe that NatWest provided Mr P with sufficient information about the benefits that 
the Platinum account came with for Mr P to have been aware of what he was covered for, 
the main exclusions and how to claim on these benefits.
Mr P is unhappy that he had claims declined under the travel insurance, mobile phone 
insurance and breakdown cover. As we have explained to him, NatWest is not responsible 
for the claims and whether they are declined or accepted  and this is the case no matter 
how strongly Mr P believes that NatWest should be held responsible for them.. These 
policies are underwritten and provided by third parties. So if Mr P believes he was treated 
unfairly when he attempted to claim on the individual insurance policies, he would need to 
direct his concerns to the relevant third parties.
Mr P has concerns with the way his complaint was handled. And I note that NatWest has 
already paid £20 compensation for this. I think overall that this is not an unreasonable 
amount, so I am satisfied that what NatWest has already paid is in line with our approach 
and is a fair outcome to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that what NatWest has already done is fair and reasonable and it does not 
need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman