DRN-4299833
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined part of their 
claim under their home insurance policy following a burglary.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term AXA includes its agents and representatives for the 
purposes of this decision letter.
What happened
In October 2022, Mr and Mrs Os home was unfortunately burgled and many items were 
stolen. They reported the matter to AXA as their insurer at the relevant time. AXA accepted 
the claim however it excluded some items of jewellery from the claims settlement. Mr and 
Mrs O were unhappy about this and complained to AXA. However, AXA didnt uphold the 
complaint, so Mr and Mrs O referred their complaint to this service.
The relevant investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Os complaint. She noted that AXA had failed to 
send a file submission, and so her assessment was based on evidence supplied by Mr and 
Mrs O to support their case. The investigator noted that AXA hadnt disputed that there was 
a genuine claim. She noted that one of the items had been listed within the high-risk section 
of the policy. Handwritten receipts of the items had also been produced on the relevant 
jewellers headed paper with the date of purchase, item descriptions and the purchase 
prices. Shed also provided a jewellers valuation following the claim for all stolen items. 
In conclusion, the investigator considered that Mr and Mrs O had provided sufficient 
evidence to prove the purchase. She therefore considered that AXA hadnt acted fairly and 
considered that AXA should proceed to settle these items in accordance with the policy.
AXA disagreed with this outcome. The matter has therefore been referred to me to make a 
final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether AXA fairly and reasonably applied the terms 
and conditions of the policy in excluding certain items from the settlement. In determining 
this issue, Ive also considered the submissions of the parties as summarised below.
Mr and Mrs O felt that they hadn't been treated fairly by AXA as it had decided not to settle 
the most expensive items of the claim, including an item which was specifically mentioned in 
the policy schedule. Mr and Mrs O had also contacted the relevant jewellers and they felt 
theyd provided everything that AXA had requested. Theyd obtained receipts from the 
jewellers and a document commenting on the authenticity of an item. Mrs O said that it had 
been bought ten years ago and all jewellery had been purchased from the same jewellers.
Mr and Mrs O subsequently clarified that the receipts theyd produced had been hand-written 
by the relevant jeweller two weeks after the valuation information had been produced by the 
same jeweller. They said that AXAs agents had acknowledged that after the length of time 
from purchase, most people wouldnt have receipts. Mr and Mrs O also said that AXA had 
encouraged them to get further clarification from the jewellers, and they did so.
AXA said that it had omitted certain jewellery items from the final settlement. It noted that 
one of the items was specified on the policy. For high value items, it would expect to see 
some form of substantiation by means of a receipt or valuation, and that a photograph alone 
didnt prove ownership. It said that this would also have assisted in providing a fair and 
accurate settlement. AXA referred to the relevant policy wording as follows: To help prove 
your claim we may require you to provide original purchase receipts, invoices, bank or credit 
card statements, instruction booklets, photographs. AXA left it open to Mr and Mrs O to 
provide further evidence in support of the claim and said it would be happy to review this.
AXA said that its position was based upon the opinion of its expert agents. It considered that 
documents produced by Mr and Mrs O on headed paper from the jeweller werent receipts or 
valuations and werent based on any records held. It was concerned that prices referenced 
in the documents were the same prices as the estimates previously provided, based on what 
was paid at the time. It noted that the jewellers couldn't quote for replacements without 
inspection which obviously isn't possible as the items were stolen. It therefore concluded 
that the documents produced werent based on any records held and were insufficient. 
The starting point for cases of this nature will be the policy terms and conditions. I note the 
provision upon which AXA relies. I also note that AXA doesnt dispute that a burglary 
happened in this case and that certain items existed, however it didnt consider that Mr and 
Mrs O had shown that they purchased and owned specific items of a particular value in order 
to validate the costs of the claim 
Ive concluded that on the balance of probabilities, Mr and Mr O did purchase and own the 
items in question. AXA also doesnt dispute that, unfortunately, many of Mr and Mrs Os 
items were stolen in a burglary (and presumably the matter had been reported to and 
investigated by the police). I consider that AXA had reasonably asked for further evidence of 
purchase and acted fairly and reasonably in stating that it would be happy to consider such 
further evidence. The wording of the policy makes it clear that AXA may require production 
of original purchase receipts, invoices and photographs to help prove the claim. However, I 
note that it doesnt exclude production of other alternative evidence to substantiate a claim.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs O reverted to their jeweller, who provided details of stolen items 
and the amounts which had been paid on the date of purchase. These were in the form of 
re-constructed receipts. Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs O didnt retain receipts for such high 
value items in order to evidence their value. I also consider that its most unfortunate that the 
jewellers produced documents which appeared to be receipts produced on the date of 
purchase of items. Its since been confirmed that these werent original receipts based on 
clear records held be the jeweller. They appear to be documents produced following a 
discussion between Mr and Mrs O and the jewellers as to what theyd paid at the time. I note 
that there is also a discrepancy as Mr and Mrs O considered theyd purchased the high 
value item 10 years ago, whereas the jewellers document indicated that it was 6 years ago.
On the remaining question of the value of the items, I consider this to be a finely balanced 
issue. The evidence from the jeweller is not particularly strong, as it doesnt clarify whether 
the prices were recorded from the jewellers memory, as they sold all relevant items over a 
period of years, or whether this was based on a discussion with M and Mrs O. In relation to 
the high value item, I consider it likely that the figure recorded by the jeweller was accurate 
as the insurance schedule records this specific item as having a value in excess of this figure. In relation to the remaining items, and in the absence of AXAs case-notes in this 
matter, Im also satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the jeweller had provided a fair 
valuation based on their recollection of the purchase prices at the relevant time.
In conclusion, whilst a finely balanced judgment, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs O have on the 
balance of probabilities provided sufficient evidence to prove the purchase, ownership and 
valuation of the relevant items. Ive therefore concluded that AXA didnt act in a fair and 
reasonable manner in declining to provide a cash settlement for these. I therefore agree that 
AXA must now settle the items in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy, together with interest from the date Mr and Mrs O produced additional evidence in the 
form of re-constructed receipts from the jewellers to the date of payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint and require AXA Insurance 
UK Plc to do the following in response to their complaint:
- To settle Mr and Mrs Os claim in relation to the remaining items in accordance with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
- To pay interest at the annual rate of 8% simple interest* from the date of production 
of the additional evidence from the jewellers to the date of payment
*If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs O how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs O a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman