DRN-2852215
The complaint
Mr H has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) practices when offering 
premium renewal quotations. 
What happened
Mr H insures two cars with UKI. In February 2020 UKI sent him a quote to renew the policy 
for one of his cars of around £592. Mr H rang UKI and asked what its best price was. UKI 
said it couldn't offer anything else as that was the best price that was coming up. Mr H said 
hed keep ringing UKI until he could get a better deal. In March Mr H rang UKI again. UKI 
told him it could offer him a reduced premium of around £507. Mr H said hed ring back. 
Mr H rang UKI again nine days later. UKIs call handler told Mr H that the £507 price 
wouldn't improve. Mr H complained. He later rang UKI on two more occasions; each time it 
told him that the premium of around £507 was the best it could do. In the final call Mr H said 
he would renew at that premium under duress.
UKI replied to Mr Hs complaint. It told him that when a policyholder contacts it about a 
renewal premium it will check to see if the premiums gone down and if any other discounts 
might be available. But it said that such reductions are discretionary and its not obliged to 
offer them. 
Mr H brought his complaint about UKI to us. Two of our investigators have looked into it. The 
first didn't think UKI had done anything wrong. After Mr H complained about his investigation 
a second investigator looked at the complaint. He thought UKI had handled the matter fairly. 
Mr H didn't agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Mr H said UKI isn't open and transparent in the manner it goes about offering renewal 
premiums. He said its staff are incentivised by monetary benefit, because they receive a 
bonus for selling policies. And as such they won't explain that a cheaper price might be 
available on another day.
I understand Mr H is aware that insurers regularly review the risks their policies cover and as 
such the insurers also review the premiums they charge to cover those risks. That means 
premiums go up or down frequently. And as such, theres potential, between the date an 
insurer like UKI initially offers a renewal premium and the renewal date, for the premium to 
change. UKIs told Mr H that, in his case, by the time of his second call, UKI was in a 
position to offer a lower premium that it couldn't offer previously. I can understand why Mr H 
might be upset that UKI didn't offer him the lowest price at the outset but that doesn't mean 
UKI had done anything wrong. 
Ive listened to Mr Hs calls with UKI referred to above. When Mr H first called UKI it told him 
the quoted premium, of around £592, was the best it could offer. It might help if I explain that 
UKIs told us that its premiums are system generated, so if a consumer like Mr H rings it, its 
call handlers arent in a position to negotiate a premium with a consumer. But they can 
check to see if the updated position on risk assessment has reduced the premiums since the 
renewal quote was generated or if there are further discretionary discounts they may be able 
to apply. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. 
At the time of Mr Hs first call, there weren't any further discounts the call handler could 
apply. So she said the premium quoted was the best price UKI could offer. I think its worth 
noting that the call handler didn't at any point say, as Mr H has suggested, that the premium 
quoted that day was UKIs best and final offer but simply that was the best she could do. 
Further, Mr H made it clear that he intended to ring back to see if he got a better price on a 
different day. So I don't think there was any reason for the call handler to tell Mr H he could 
do that if he wanted to. He was clearly aware that was an option open to him. 
I understand that UKI tells its customers who are considering renewing their policies with it 
that its staff are likely to receive a bonus if you purchase any cover from us. Mr H thinks 
this means that UKIs staff won't be transparent about the possibility of a price changing. But 
I haven't heard anything in Mr Hs call with UKI which indicates its call handlers were 
incentivised by monetary benefit to close the sale and which had put Mr H in a worse 
position. 
In fact if any bonus UKI pays is such a large incentive to its staff then I would expect them to 
want to offer the most attractive discounts available in order to try to secure the sale and 
claim any sales bonus for themselves. But I haven't heard that in Mr Hs call with UKI. 
Instead, in the first call the call handler offered the best price available on the day. And she 
said she understood why Mr H was unhappy because of his increased premium. She didn't 
in any way try to deter Mr H from ringing back at a later date. 
On the second call UKI said it could apply a further discount and reduced the premium by 
around £85. That is a significant price reduction. But I'm aware that the discount UKI applied 
at that time wasn't available at the date of Mr Hs first call. So the call handler during the first 
call couldn't offer that reduction at that time. Similarly she wouldn't have known that UKI was 
likely to introduce that reduction at a later date. So she couldn't have advised Mr H to wait 
until it was introduced.
It might help if I explain that exactly how insurers calculate risk and their pricing practices is 
commercially sensitive information. So insurers wont make that information readily 
available. And they aren't required to be transparent about the manner in which they set 
premiums. Also, as I've said above, the calculation of risk and application of discretionary 
discounts are factors that change over time and which can cause premiums to increase or 
decrease. Thats essentially a matter of commercial judgement. That is insurers will alter 
their pricing practices to reflect the changes in the market. And in doing so they have to 
balance their need to cover any perceived risks against their desire to be competitive and 
retain a customers business. That's something insurers like UKI are allowed to do and it's 
not something we think it would be fair to interfere with. 
So I don't think UKI did anything wrong in not telling Mr H during the first call that a discount 
might become available at some point in the future, when the call handler wouldn't have 
known whether or not that was the case. And, if the price hadn't gone down, that could have 
resulted in a lot of wasted phone calls waiting for a premium reduction that wasn't going to 
happen. I've noted that during the third call the call handler speculated that the reasons his colleague 
hadn't applied the additional discount during the first call was because she hadn't checked 
the database. But I note that was an assumption by the call handler and he said he didn't 
know when the call actually took place. But I think he was mistaken and there was no actual 
evidence to support his assumption. As far as I'm aware, the reason UKI didn't offer the 
discount during the first call is, at that time, the discount wasnt available. So it's not the 
case, as Mr H has suggested, that this was a failure by the first call handler to check a 
second system to apply a discount. But simply that the discount wasn't available at the time. 
Ill add that I'm aware that, during the third call, UKI did tell Mr H that the premium it quoted 
was the best premium it could offer and that it wouldn't go down any further. Mr H disputed 
that at the time. But given Mr H phoned UKI on two more occasions and the price didn't 
change; so the information UKI gave to him during that call was accurate.
It follows that I'm satisfied that UKI has dealt with the matter reasonably. And I've seen no 
evidence, beyond Mr Hs remarks that its payment of bonuses to staff has resulted in any 
unfairness to Mr H. 
For completeness Ive noted that when asking for an ombudsman's review Mr H said he 
looked forward to discussing the matter with the ombudsman. But I don't intend to discuss 
my findings with him in person. That's because we are generally a paper based organisation, 
and I would only usually talk to either side if I felt that there was evidence I could only collect 
by speaking to the individual in person. That's not the case here. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman