DRN-4120766
The complaint
Ms D complains mistakes by DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited in handling 
an employment claim under her legal expenses insurance policy led to it being out of time 
and her losing out on compensation. 
What happened
At the end of April 2021 Ms D took out legal expenses insurance (LEI) with DAS as part of 
her home insurance policy. In late September 2021 Ms D made a claim for LEI cover to 
pursue a claim against her employer. 
DAS declined the claim at the beginning of October 2021. They said the first incident leading 
to Ms Ds claim had arisen in April 2020. Since shed added LEI to her policy at the end of 
April 2021, the claim fell outside the period of her LEI cover. 
Ms D said her claim related to discrimination that had happened in 2021 and shed submitted 
supporting documents as background information. DAS said she should continue with her 
employers ongoing internal appeal process and come back to them, once she had an 
outcome, with a timeline of the new dispute and supporting documents. 
In late March 2022 Ms D made a new claim on the policy. She chased DAS for a response in 
early April. DAS thought it was a continuation of the earlier claim. And they asked Ms D 
again to provide a timeline of events so they could consider when the discrimination first 
began. 
Ms D got in touch with DAS in early May 2022. She was unhappy her claim hadnt 
progressed. DAS raised a complaint and responded at the end of June. 
DAS said theyd been right to decline the original claim. They apologised for the delay in 
declining the new claim. They said, broadly, the documents Ms D had submitted in relation 
to both claims suggested the events her case against the employer was based on had 
begun before the policy began at the end of April 2021. She should let them know if shed 
had LEI cover before then and theyd check if DAS were the insurers. If she hadnt, it would 
be fair to ask their panel solicitors to see if she had a standalone claim based solely on 
events that had happened since the policy began. Ms D agreed to that in mid-July 2022.
DAS appointed panel solicitors straight away. The solicitors advised in mid-August 2022 that 
Ms D was out of time for making a claim to the employment tribunal and it didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success as a result. Since Ms D had admitted she was aware of the 
time limits, and shed been waiting to hear from DAS as to the status of her insurance 
coverage to pursue the claim, the tribunal was unlikely to allow the claim outside the time 
limit. 
Ms D complained delays by DAS in handling her claim and appointing solicitors who could 
consider it had led to the claim being out of time.
DAS agreed there had been a delay in progressing her 2022 claim. And they paid her £100 
compensation for any distress caused when they didnt ring her back as requested to 
discuss her new complaint. But they said they werent responsible for missing the time limit. 
They made the following points:
It was Ms Ds responsibility to protect her legal position. 
Ms D had been aware of the relevant time limits having previously made a claim 
through the employment tribunal. 
DAS hadnt told her at any point theyd cover the claim. 
Shed failed to respond to their correspondence in early April 2022. 
Theyd said they were unlikely to cover the claim in early May 2022. 
When discussing the complaint a few days later, theyd said a likely outcome was 
that theyd explain in full the reasons why theyd declined the claim. 
They hadnt suggested a legal review of her complaint until their response at the end 
of June 2022. 
Since Ms D was unhappy with DASs response she brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Ms D had 
delayed in contacting DAS to progress her claim and in providing them with information 
theyd requested to consider cover. She was aware of the time limits for making an 
employment tribunal claim. And she ought to have taken steps to protect her position. DAS 
werent responsible for her complaint being out of time.
Since Ms D didnt agree, her complaints been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the impact Ms Ds employment issues have had on her health. I can 
understand it was disappointing to be told her legal claim was out of time. But, as Ill explain, 
Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator for broadly the same reasons.
We expect insurers to deal with claims promptly and fairly and not to decline claims 
unreasonably, in line with relevant Financial Conduct Authority rules. Ill consider Ms Ds 
complaint against that background. The starting point is the LEI cover she had with DAS.
Under the terms of the LEI policy, and subject to its terms, conditions and exclusions, Ms D 
had LEI of up to £50,000 for certain insured incidents. They included disputes relating to   
Ms Ds contract of employment.
For cover to be available, the date of occurrence of the insured incident had to be within 
the period of insurance. Date of occurrence was defined in the policy as:
the date of the event that leads to a claim. If there is more than one event arising 
at different times from the same originating cause, the date of occurrence is the 
date of the first of these events. (This is the date the event happened, which may be 
when you first became aware of it.)
The period of insurance was between 30 April 2021 and 30 April 2022. So, the event leading 
to the claim had to happen during that period.
It was a condition of policy cover that a claim should have reasonable prospects of success, 
that is there had to be at least a 51% chance of recovering losses or damages. Ms Ds concerned that solicitors who couldnt consider her complaint were involved in 
September 2021. But I dont think that affected the progress of her claim. DAS reviewed the 
documents Ms D submitted in late September 2021 and said her claim wasnt covered by 
early October. They explained why the claim wasnt covered and suggested alternative ways 
in which Ms D might be able to pursue her legal claim. I think they acted promptly and fairly. 
It was reasonable for DAS to think Ms Ds claim related to the treatment shed received from 
her employer since before the policy began. Shed provided details of issues that had arisen 
with colleagues in or before December 2019 and her concern about a warning shed 
received in around March 2020, as well as later documents. It wasnt clear then that her 
claim was only for events that post-dated the start of the policy. 
Ms D rang in early October 2021 to explain the dispute was for new discrimination that had 
happened that year. She said shed provided supporting documents to show evidence of a 
previous dispute. But I dont think it was unreasonable for DAS to continue to decline the 
claim at that stage. The employers internal process was still going on. It could have resolved 
the dispute. The policy only provided cover for the costs of legal proceedings, not the 
internal process.
I think it was reasonable for DAS to treat the second claim Ms D made in late March 2022 as 
a continuation of the first. She was coming back to them following completion of the internal 
process. And since Ms D had recorded the incident date as 1 April 2021 on her claim, it was 
reasonable for DAS to think it continued to pre-date the policy.
DAS fairly accepted theyd delayed in responding to the new claim initially. But theyd told 
Ms D by early April 2022 that they were declining the claim and would require a timeline of 
events to confirm when the alleged discrimination first started to consider the claim further. I 
think that was fair. The policy said she must give DAS any information they needed to 
consider the claim. Although DAS were able to piece together a timeline themselves when 
they looked at the complaint later, the information they had wasnt complete and the claim 
Ms D wished to make wasnt clear. In the circumstances, it was reasonable for DAS not to 
accept the claim at that stage. 
DAS followed up in writing shortly afterwards. They said then that if her claim was covered 
under the policy theyd appoint one of their panel solicitors to deal with it. But they asked her 
not to take any legal action in the meantime without their authority as it could lead to the 
claim being declined; any cover under the policy wouldnt start until theyd formally appointed 
solicitors; and they wouldnt cover any legal costs incurred before then. 
Ms D ought reasonably to have understood she had to provide more information to enable 
DAS to consider her claim. But she didnt come back to DAS until early May when she 
complained about lack of progress and DAS raised a complaint. DAS say they didnt give  
Ms D any assurances that her complaint would be upheld when they spoke to her a few 
days later. Im not aware of any evidence they did. They responded formally to her complaint 
within the timescales the Financial Conduct Authority rules require - before the end of June 
2022. They said theyd correctly declined the claim. But they felt it would be fair to get a legal 
view on whether she could bring a claim for incidents that had happened after the policy took 
effect. I think that was reasonable.
Ms D was aware by early May that DAS had declined the claim. Whilst she may have hoped 
theyd change their mind, she couldnt rely on that. I can understand she would have been 
reluctant to appoint her own solicitors given the warnings DAS had given about what might 
happen if she did and the costs involved. But bearing in mind Ms D was aware a time limit 
might apply to her legal claim, I think its reasonable to expect her to have taken action to 
protect her position rather than waiting for DASs response to her complaint. DAS appointed the panel solicitors in late July, immediately after Ms D had agreed they 
should. Since the claim was out of time, the solicitors advised the claim didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success. The time limit had passed by the time DAS had responded 
to the complaint at the end of June. But, since I think DAS handled the claim fairly and 
reasonably, as Ive explained, it wouldnt be fair to hold them responsible for that.
Even if I thought it was, it wouldnt be fair to ask them to pay Ms D the compensation the 
employment tribunal may have awarded her. Its uncertain whether DAS would have covered 
the claim even if the legal claim had been within the time limit. The solicitors said there was 
the possibility of pursuing a legal claim, but they didnt formally advise on whether it had 
reasonable prospects of success on the merits. So, I cant be sure DAS would have covered 
the claim under the policy.
Even if DAS had covered the claim, I cant be certain the employment tribunal would have 
made an award of compensation in the end. The claim was in its very early stages. The 
solicitors assessment may have changed once the employer had put in its defence, for 
example. Its too speculative to say Ms D would have recovered any compensation. So, it 
wouldnt be fair to ask DAS to pay towards that.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Ms D will be disappointed, Im not persuaded 
its fair and reasonable to uphold her complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman