DRN-4344960
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) refuses to refund his losses after he fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr S has explained that in September 2021, he was persuaded to make a number of 
payments from his HSBC account for what he subsequently realised was a cryptocurrency 
investment scam. 
The payments were sent using Mr Ss mobile banking app, initially to cryptocurrency 
exchanges in his own name, then sent on to the scammer. The first payment was made to a 
cryptocurrency exchange which I will refer to as B, and the remaining payments were made 
to another cryptocurrency exchange Ill call C. Both were legitimate businesses and there is 
no suggestion they were involved in the scam.
Mr S was initially contacted on social media by a person he thought was a former colleague 
who had moved to the United States of America. But this person turned out to be a 
scammer. The scammer told Mr S about an investment company (which Ill call A), saying he 
had invested and made good returns. Mr S continued the conversation with the scammer via 
a popular messaging app  and he has shared those messages with us. The scammer 
ultimately persuaded Mr S to invest and advised him on how to set up accounts with B and 
later with C.
In November 2021, when Mr S attempted to make a large withdrawal from A to his 
cryptocurrency wallet at C, A told him he had to pay a number of fees before the withdrawal 
could be released. The scammer encouraged Mr S to make the payment so the withdrawal 
could be processed, saying hed paid these one-off fees himself and received his money 
without any problems. 
According to the messages with the scammer, on 19 November 2021 Mr S made the 
payment (not via his HSBC account) but A said it was not received. Having contacted C 
about this, Mr S was informed by C on 23 November 2021 that, the cryptocurrency wallet 
address he had sent money to, had been identified by other customers as being used in a 
scam. Despite this, the scammer continued to message Mr S, encouraging him to make 
further payments to A to facilitate withdrawals. 
On 31 December 2021, HSBC received a letter reporting that Mr S had been the victim of a 
scam and asking HSBC to reimburse the money. HSBC refused to do so, since the money 
had been sent to Mr Ss own account at C. Unhappy with this, Mr S referred a complaint 
about HSBC to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked at what happened. He said that a payment for £30,000 that Mr S 
sent on 6 October 2021, shouldve triggered an intervention from HSBC, and that if HSBC 
had contacted Mr S to ask appropriate questions about the payment he was making, the 
scam wouldve been uncovered, and Mr S would not have proceeded. Our investigator 
recommended that HSBC reimburse Mr S the payment of £30,000 as well as the payment 
he made after this which was for a further £15,038. 
HSBC disagreed. It said that the payee information it held at the time the payments were 
sent was for a business regulated by the FCA (Financial Conduct Authority), so its 
detections system hadnt flagged these as suspicious. Mr S also disagreed asserting that the 
earlier payments made from his accounts were out of the ordinary, so he felt HSBC should 
refund the payments at least from the 20 September 2021, when he made a payment of 
£5,029. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me. 
In my provisional decision of 7 August, I set out why I was minded to upholding the 
complaint in part but also recommended a deduction to the redress for contributory 
negligence. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. HSBC replied that while it didnt fully agree to all my 
comments, it would be happy to resolve the complaint in accordance with the redress set out 
in the provisional decision. Mr S didnt agree to my provisional decision making some 
additional submissions which I will address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
 currently I intend to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator, and Ill explain why. 
To begin with, where customers authorise payments from their accounts, businesses such 
as HSBC are under an obligation to process such transfers. If consumers are the victim of a 
scam (like Mr S), the starting point is that consumers are responsible. To be clear, HSBC did 
not scam Mr S and it is not the perpetrator of the scam. 
However, financial businesses also have a duty to try to prevent their customers falling 
victim to scams. Businesses therefore need to strike a balance between intervening in 
payments to prevent scams or financial harm, against the risk of unnecessarily 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions. So, I want to re-assure HSBC that I 
dont take this complaint lightly and have thought carefully about if and/or why it should bear 
any loss in this case. 
In scams of this nature, it is very common for consumers to firstly transfer money to an 
account held in their own name at a cryptocurrency exchange, and then on to scammers. 
This is a known theme of this type of scam, which business like HSBC ought to have been 
aware from at least 2019. So, while some business may argue that the money went to an 
account in the customers own name, I dont think thats sufficient reason to not carry out 
intervention calls when a payment was (or ought to be) flagged as suspicious. 
Having looked at the evidence provided by HSBC, I can see the payment information it held 
wasnt for C (the cryptocurrency exchange Mr S sent the money to), but the name of an FCA 
regulated business. My understanding is that this business was acting as a payment 
processor for C but the payments were sent to C. I appreciate that where it looks as though 
the payments are going to or through another FCA regulated business, a bank like HSBC 
might be less concerned. A bank may not necessarily know or identify that the payments will eventually be sent on to a cryptocurrency exchange. And I have to assess what HSBC did 
based on the information it had available at the time the payments were made. 
However, while I accept that HSBC may have been less concerned about payments that it 
believed were going to an FCA regulated business  this is only one factor in question and I 
dont think that absolves HSBC of its obligations to prevent financial harm altogether. Scams 
of this type and other types are now very sophisticated and money sometimes goes through 
several FCA regulated businesses and other cryptocurrency exchanges before being sent 
on to the scammer. We would still expect FCA regulated businesses to take appropriate 
measures, to monitor their customers accounts to flag any payments made that were out of 
the ordinary, ask their customers the right questions for payments that are unusual to try to 
safeguard the customers from financial harm.
Whether a payment is (or ought to have been) deemed unusual or suspicious will depend on 
a number of factors and is very specific to each case. So, Ive gone on to look at Mr Ss 
statements from September 2021 to December 2021 to assess what his usual account 
conduct looks like. I can see several payments leaving Mr Ss account (unrelated to the 
scam) amounting to several thousand pounds. For example, payments amounting to £1,000 
£2,209, £3,013 and £4000. 
Overall, the earlier payments that Mr S feels ought to have triggered an intervention do not 
stand out as out of the ordinary. These amounts are only a little larger than some of the 
other payments going through his account. And they werent, for example, sent in short 
succession of one another. For an intervention to be triggered, I would expect the payments 
to be sufficiently unusual or suspicious rather than slightly bigger than the other usual 
payments going through the account. In conjunction with the fact that the payee information 
HSBC could see was not that of the Cryptocurrency exchange, I am inclined to agree with 
our investigator, and I dont think its unreasonable that the earlier payments didnt trigger an 
intervention from HSBC in this case. Overall, I dont think theres enough here for me to 
conclude that the earlier payments ought to have triggered an intervention by HSBC. 
But while I understand why HSBC may not have flagged the earlier payments (which were 
significantly less than £30,000), Im not persuaded that there is enough reason to have not 
flagged the payment of £30,000 us unusual. This payment was significantly larger than any 
other payments going through Mr Ss account and very unusual when compared to the other 
transactions going through his account. So, I think it ought to have been flagged as unusual 
and HSBC should have contacted Mr S to discuss this payment before allowing it to leave 
his account, even if HSBC did think it was going to another UK regulated company. 
Mr S hadnt been coached to lie or mis-lead HSBC (as some scammers may encourage 
consumers to do in these sorts of scams) so Ive got no reason to doubt that, had HSBC 
contacted him, in line with its duty of care, that Mr S would have been honest about what he 
was doing.  And Im satisfied that if HSBC had a conversation with Mr S, talking through 
what was going on, that he would have told HSBC that the money was going to a 
cryptocurrency exchange for the purpose of trading (not to the FCA regulated business like 
HSBC may have believed at the time). I think HSBC would also have discovered that Mr S 
had been contacted via social media (another theme of the scam), and while he believed he 
was talking to some he knew, I think on probing Mr S, HSBC would have discovered that 
Mr S was only communicating with the scammer via social media and the mobile messaging 
app. It also would have discovered the high rates of returns being promised to and shown to 
Mr S that were unlikely to have been realistic. 
I think HSBC would likely have been able to identify the scam (because of the known themes 
of these types of scams that HSBC ought to have been aware of) and warned Mr S of its 
concerns. Combined with Mr Ss own concerns over the returns being too good to be true, and the lack of any legal documentation, I think any warnings HSBC gave Mr S following a 
discussion would have been taken seriously. It therefore seems probable that Mr S would 
have been alerted about the scam in time and stopped the payment in its tracks. So, I think 
an intervention likely would have prevented this loss and the one that followed. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr Ss redress should be reduced for contributory 
negligence. I believe Mr S was a victim of a scam and also that he trusted the scammer.
But I also have to bear in mind that Mr S transferred substantial sums of money to the 
scammers in a short space of time. He sent this money to an unregulated business, without 
seeking any formal financial advice, and without having had any previously dealings with A. 
Its also not clear whether he did any of his own research or whether he relied solely on the 
advice of the scammer. 
On review of his conversation with the scammer, as early as September 2021, Mr S 
revealed concerns over the returns being too good to be true. Mr S also asked the 
scammer for any legal documentation to guarantee his investments, but the scammer 
responded that he only had his integrity. 
After the scam was discovered Mr S admitted during the chat that I cant believe I was so 
stupid not to take note of all the risk signals I identified before investing. Its so obvious but I 
wanted to believe something too good to be true. He reiterates, Ive been such a fool, the 
signs were so obvious, but I wanted to believe.   
In my view, Mr S ought to have recognised that there was some risk in sending that much 
money to an unknown and unregulated company in addition to his own concerns over the 
returns being too good to be true and the lack of any documentation to protect the payments 
he was making. I think he ignored these warning signs unreasonably. While I sympathise 
with his position, for the reasons explained above, I still think he should bear some liability 
for the loss because he hasnt acted reasonably considering all the circumstances of this 
case. So, I think HSBC can deduct 50% from his redress award in recognition of this. 
Mr S says he used money from two of his First Direct savings accounts, a credit card with a 
third-party provider and sums from an NS&I account to fund the investment. Based on the 
dates of the payments Mr S has set out, it is my understanding that the two payments Ive 
asked HSBC to refund were made on the 6 and 7 October 2021. And the money used to 
fund these payments came from the third-party credit card provider (£6,000) and the NS&I 
Premium bond account (£45,000).  Any bonuses or interest on the NS&I account are not 
guaranteed so I dont intend to award any interest on the amounts Mr S took from this 
account. But I intend to ask HSBC to pay Mr S, interest on 50% the amount used from the 
credit card. So, HSBC should refund the interest on £3,000 of the £6,000 Mr S took from his 
credit card account. 
I understand the experience has caused Mr S significant distress and inconvenience. While I 
am very sorry for the difficulties he has experienced, ultimately it was the scammer who was 
responsible for his suffering. And whilst I have concluded HSBC most likely could have 
prevented some of the payments, Ive also explained why I think a 50% reduction to the 
compensation due to contributory negligence is appropriate. Bearing all of this in mind, 
overall, Im satisfied the award I have set out here represents a fair outcome to this case, so 
I dont intend to make an additional award for distress and inconvenience.  
Putting things right 
HSBC should pay Mr S:
1. A refund of 50% of the payments made by Mr S on the 6 and 7 October 2021. 2. Refund 50% of the interest Mr S has been charged on the money he took from his 
third-party credit card provider on the 5 October 2021. Interest should be refunded from the 
date the payment was made from Mr Ss HSBC account until the date it is reimbursed.
a. In order for HSBC to calculate the interest, Mr S should provide evidence (such as 
statements) of the third party credit card account from which the money originated showing 
the payment being made to his HSBC account and the applicable interest rate.
If HSBC deducts tax from this interest, it should provide the Mr S with the appropriate tax 
deduction certificate.
Mr S didnt agree for the following reasons: 
Mr S feels that reducing his redress by 50% is too much and he has been penalised 
for being honest and providing evidence of his conversation with the scammer. He 
feels that a lower percentage should be deducted. Mr S has sent in copies of other 
decisions issued by the service and feels a deduction of 20% is more appropriate. 
Mr S also feels that while there were a few transactions leaving his account 
amounting to more than a few thousand pounds  these were all post scam and prior 
to that, the payments leaving his accounts were significantly less. So, he re-iterates 
that the payment of £5,029 was unusual and ought to have triggered an intervention.
 
While Mr S agrees that the bonusses on any NS&I accounts arent guaranteed, he 
feels a return of 3% was highly likely. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ss comments. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S, but each 
case is decided on the individual merits of that case. And Ive set out why I think a deduction 
of 50% is fair. I reiterate Mr S sent significant sums of money to an unregulated financial 
business that he had no prior dealings with, without seeking any formal financial advice and 
without having any documentation to protect his investments. And he appears to have 
identified the scam was too good to be true long before he became aware of the scam but 
decided to push ahead with sending payments anyway. 
Ive again thought about whether an earlier intervention may have been warranted based on 
Mr Ss comments and the evidence he has submitted of payments dated prior to the scam. 
But even on his list of debits, payments of £4,000 and £2,013 debited his account just before 
the scam payment of £5,029. I do, however, appreciate that many of the transactions are 
less than £1,500. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, payments need to stand out 
as sufficiently unusual or suspicious to warrant an intervention from a financial business and 
its not enough a payment was somewhat larger than the common payments going through 
his account. In addition, we look at whether there were any other risk factors present that 
may indicate an intervention is appropriate. For example, payments being sent in quick 
succession, whether there were any other facts known to the bank such as the payee being 
mentioned on any scam alerts sent by the UK regulator, scam payments leaving an account 
significantly in arrears which is unusual for the account conduct. I also have to consider the 
other information available to HSBC to assess whether an intervention was appropriate. As 
HSBC explained, the payments sent to C were sent through another UK regulated business. 
So, while Ive thought carefully about Mr Ss concerns, overall, I am still of the view, that 
there isnt enough here for me to making a finding that HSBC ought to have intervened 
earlier than the £30,000 payment. 
I do understand Mr Ss concerns regarding the amounts he took from his NS&I account. And 
while he may have achieved some return (which may have been higher or lower than 3%), as explained in my provisional decision, no return was guaranteed. So, Im afraid my view of 
this remains unchanged. 
Having reviewed everything both parties have submitted, I find no reason to depart from my 
findings as set out in my provisional decision. I dont doubt how disappointing this will be for 
Mr S, and I am very sorry he has fallen victim to this scam. But I must reiterate that HSBC 
didnt scam Mr S and he authorised these payments. While I think HSBC could have done 
more, Ive also explained why I dont think Mr S has acted reasonably as well. So, Im 
satisfied the conclusion Ive reached is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. 
Putting things right
HSBC must pay Mr S:
1. A refund of 50% of the payments made by Mr S on the 6 and 7 October 2021. 
2. Refund 50% of the interest Mr S has been charged on the money he took from his 
third-party credit card provider on the 5 October 2021. Interest should be refunded 
from the date the payment was made from Mr Ss HSBC account until the date it is 
reimbursed.
a. In order for HSBC to calculate the interest, Mr S should provide evidence 
(such as statements) of the third party credit card account from which the 
money originated showing the payment being made to his HSBC account and 
the applicable interest rate.
If HSBC deducts tax from this interest, it should provide the Mr S with the appropriate tax 
deduction certificate.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman