DRN-3043060
The complaint
Mr S complains that Crowdcube Capital Limited gave him misleading information about a 
company (A) he invested in through its platform. He wants Crowdcube to reimburse him for 
his losses.
What happened
Crowdcube operates an equity crowdfunding platform. Investors like Mr S can invest in 
shares of what are generally small or start-up companies, with Crowdcube arranging their 
investment.
Mr S invested in company A through Crowdcubes platform. As well as the funds it was 
raising through Crowdcube, A had a loan facility with a bank, B. The second tranche of this 
loan was due to be released a few months after the crowdfunding round. When the time 
came, B didnt release the additional funds because A hadnt met certain revenue targets 
built into the terms of the loan. Shortly afterwards, A was sold, resulting in Mr S making a 
substantial loss on his investment. 
Mr S then discovered that, before the round of crowdfunding, A had breached another of the 
covenants of the loan. He complained to Crowdcube, saying it should have disclosed this 
breach in the pitch on its website, or the accompanying documents it sent him about A. He 
said it should refund his losses.
One of our investigators looked into things, and didnt think Crowdcube had done anything 
wrong. He said Crowdcube had warned Mr S the investment in A was high risk and that the 
company could fail. On its website it also said investors should take care to carry out their 
own due diligence on prospective investments. He thought Crowdcubes communications 
about the investment in A had been clear that the company had existing bank borrowing, 
with covenants attached. Overall he thought it had done enough to explain the risks of the 
investment and had presented information about A in a clear way.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. I then wrote to 
Crowdcube to say I didnt agree with our investigator, and thought the loan covenant breach 
was something it ought to have disclosed to investors like Mr S.
Crowdcube responded to say it thought it had fulfilled its obligations to Mr S. In summary it 
said:
A didnt breach any covenants of the loan with B after the crowdfunding round was 
completed. The withholding of the second tranche of the loan was due to As failure 
to meet different conditions of the agreement, and was unrelated to the previous 
breach.
Crowdcube provided appropriate and proportionate information about A and its 
financial standing, in line with the regulators guidance.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect the information it provided to cater for Mr Ss 
particular view of what risks the investment posed.
There arent any rules about the level of due diligence Crowdcube needed to carry 
out. It did however explain to Mr S what analysis it had carried out so he could decide 
how much if any additional information he might want or need. This reflected the 
FCAs view on what theyd expect from crowdfunding platforms.
Mr S had never shown any interest or concern in companies loan facilities when 
making previous investments. So Crowdcube didnt think Mr S would have invested 
differently, even if hed known about the covenant breach.
I issued a provisional decision about the matter, in which I said:
What were Crowdcubes obligations?
It isnt in dispute that Crowdcube promoted the investment in A to Mr S, and that it arranged 
it for him. Neither party contends that Crowdcube shouldnt have promoted the investment to 
Mr S, or that this wasnt an appropriate investment for him. For completeness Im also 
satisfied that the relevant rules on restricted promotion and appropriateness were followed.
This complaint is, at its heart, about the information Crowdcube supplied to Mr S about A. 
Ive considered Crowdcubes obligations under the FCAs rules. Particularly that it needed to 
have regard for Mr Ss interests and treat him fairly (Principle 6); and ensure its 
communications or promotions were fair, clear and not misleading (COBS 4.2.1R).
Ive also thought carefully about what Crowdcubes said about the due diligence the 
regulator expects it to carry out. I acknowledge that the rules and guidance in this area arent 
prescriptive. But I dont think the level of due diligence Crowdcube carried out here is the 
central issue. Its not in dispute that Crowdcube knew about the covenant breach, so this 
complaint centres on the question of whether it ought to have included that information in 
what it told Mr S about the investment in A.
I note that in its policy statement PS14/4 the FCA said of the due diligence expected of 
crowdfunding firms (my emphasis):
we expect sufficient detail to be provided to give a balanced indication of the benefits and 
the risk involved, including whether or not any due diligence has been carried out on an 
investee company, the extent of the due diligence and the outcome of any analysis.
In 2015 the FCA issued a review of the regulatory regime for crowdfunding where it said:
Firms need to provide investors with appropriate information, in a comprehensive form, so 
that they are reasonably able to understand the nature and risks of the investment, and, 
consequently, to make investment decisions on an informed basis.
One of the areas of concern the FCA identified was a situation where a platform provided:
Insufficient, omitted or the cherry-picking of information, leading to a potentially misleading 
or unrealistically optimistic impression of the investment.
So Crowdcube needed to ensure any information it gave Mr S about A was fair, clear, and 
not misleading, and enabled him to make an informed decision whether to invest, armed with 
knowledge of the nature and risks of an investment into the company.
Should Crowdcube have mentioned As covenant breach in its communications with Mr S?Crowdcube provided Mr S with a financial snapshot document about A as well as an 
explanatory note with more information about the company.
The explanatory note says A has an agreement to borrow a total of £3.5million from B. At the 
time of the crowdfunding raise, it had drawn down £2million of the facility, with the rest 
available to be drawn down some months later. The note goes on to say this second tranche 
is dependent on A meeting revenue targets. It also says there are financial covenants in the 
loan agreement relating to As cash and revenue, and that these covenants are in the 
process of being amended. Similarly, the financial snapshot mentions the covenants and 
says A needs to hold particular levels of cash.
In my view, going into detail about the covenants in place, and the fact they were being 
renegotiated  but failing to say why, or that theyd previously been breached  failed to give 
a full and clear picture of the loan arrangement. I dont think omitting mention of the prior 
breach gave Mr S appropriate information to allow him to understand the risks of the 
investment.
The documents give no indication that A was concerned about its ability to meet the loan 
covenants, and says it thinks the crowdfunding raise should give them enough cash to meet 
their debt covenants for some time. 
I think this was misleading. Im satisfied the notes let investors know of the loan 
arrangements with B and that they were subject to covenants on A. I think investors like Mr 
S would therefore have understood As ability to meet those covenants was a particular risk 
of investing in this company. And I think knowledge of how A had performed against those 
covenants in the past would be a material and important fact allowing investors to make an 
informed judgement about the risk, and whether it was one they were willing to accept.
Crowdcube has argued that the first breach related to cash consumption, but the later 
breach - which resulted in the second tranche of borrowing being withheld - related to 
revenue. I dont think that matters. Whether or not the same covenant was breached, the 
way A had managed its borrowing in the past would help inform investors about how well it 
was likely to do so in future. I dont think its contentious to say breaching a covenant of a 
loan agreement is a material indicator of the risk of a firm doing so again, and something an 
investor would want to know when assessing the appeal of investing in a certain company.
Crowdcube has said the explanatory note indicated the covenants relating to As loan were 
in the process of being amended, and investors like Mr S were encouraged to do their own 
due diligence if they felt it necessary. Had he done so, hed have discovered the previous 
breach.
There are various reasons the covenants may have been being amended  this may have 
been a periodic feature of the arrangement or something that happened at As request. 
While Mr S could have sought more information, the issue at hand is whether simply stating 
the covenants were being amended was unclear or misleading. Given Crowdcubes 
knowledge of the reason for the amendments, I think it was.
The statement was given without comment or an indication as to whether this was a positive 
or a negative. Where the reason for the amendments was a breach  a technical event of 
default on As part in respect of its loan  I think this represented a risk in relation to an 
investment in A which Crowdcube ought to have disclosed.
I acknowledge the breach was waived by B as part of the renegotiated loan agreement. But 
its willingness to do so again may well have been affected by the first breach. While 
Crowdcube clearly explained that there were conditions A had to satisfy in order to maintain the borrowing from B, I think the risks of these conditions being met  and what impact a 
breach might have in future  were misleadingly underplayed by Crowdcube in its omission 
of the prior breach.
So overall Im not persuaded Crowdcube communicated with Mr S in a fair, clear and not 
misleading way about his investment. It was aware of material information about As history 
with regard to borrowing which the company needed to remain solvent. And, in my view, 
failing to mention this history meant Crowdcube failed to give Mr S the appropriate 
information to enable him to make an informed decision about whether to invest in A or not.
Crowdcube has argued Im holding them to too high a standard by saying they should have 
considered the kind of information Mr S in particular would have wanted to know before 
investing. It says this isnt practical for a platform with many investors and many pitches. 
But Im not suggesting Crowdcube needed to tailor its communication to each individual 
investors approach. What they did need to do was ensure the pitch was fair, clear and not 
misleading. As Ive explained, including information about the loans A had access to, and the 
covenants attached, without revealing that A had previously breached those covenants, 
meant important context to the information Crowdcube provided was omitted. And its not 
relevant whether this was information Mr S in particular needed or wanted. It was information 
that was, in my view, required in order to ensure the pitch was fully transparent about the 
benefits and risks of this particular investment. In other words, it was information necessary 
to ensure the pitch was fair, clear, and not misleading.
Did the omission affect Mr Ss decision to invest?
Crowdcube has argued Mr S had invested in many companies on its platform before, and 
had never shown an interest in loan covenants or asked questions about them. But Im not 
persuaded its fair to conclude that just because Mr S had never asked about loan covenants 
before, he would not have appreciated the significance of A breaching them in the past. The 
question here isnt why Mr S didnt ask about loan covenants previously  its how he 
wouldnt assessed this information when considering his appetite for investing in A.
And Im persuaded by the evidence Mr S has provided, that he chose his investments 
carefully. He was clearly aware of the risks of investing in early stage companies  and 
crucially, he understood that such companies often rely on loans and other forms of credit in 
order to continue trading. Im satisfied Mr S was prepared to take the risk in A based on what 
the pitch was telling him  that this was a company looking to grow into new products to 
expand its business. But the pitch was clear about the additional funding A would need in 
addition to the crowdfunding round. The crowdfunding was described as being there to 
complement the debt finance A had arranged, in order to allow it to grow and remain 
viable. Im therefore persuaded that any potential risks that this additional funding might not 
materialise, wouldve altered the prospect of A not succeeding as a company.
In my view, information that showed that A had in the past not met loan covenants wouldve 
led Mr S to seriously consider the possibility that this might happen in future  and that 
therefore, future funding under As arrangements with B might be in jeopardy. Given 
everything Ive said above, and Mr Ss testimony which Ive found persuasive, Im satisfied 
Mr S was not prepared to take that level of risk with his money. Im persuaded that Mr S 
wouldve decided that investing in A with this history was not worth the risk, and he wouldve 
decided not to go ahead.
So I think Crowdcube should refund Mr Ss investment into A, less anything hes received 
from the sale of the company. Im also satisfied that seeing his investment fail has caused 
Mr S some upset, and I think Crowdcube should pay him a further £100 in light of that.Mr S accepted my provisional decision. But Crowdcube didnt. In summary, it said:
Crowdcube met its regulatory disclosure obligations, and it felt the pitch for A was 
fair, clear, and not misleading.
The things Crowdcube disclosed were in line with requirements for similar regulated 
documents such as a prospectus.
Many companies have matters which need to be addressed before they choose to 
promote investments in themselves. Here, As renegotiation of its loan covenants 
with B was a condition of it having its pitch put on the platform.
Where a matter like this is requested, and remedied, before a pitch is launched, 
Crowdcube wouldnt typically disclose it as it is no longer a matter affecting the 
company.
This is similar to a company looking to list its shares on a UK exchange. The rules 
about what would need to be included in a prospectus in those circumstances say 
that things like historic loan covenant breaches dont need to be disclosed.
It isnt fair to hold Crowdcube to an even higher bar than that, particularly where there 
are no specific regulatory rules to that effect.
Crowdcube accurately described the loan to Mr S and informed him about the 
covenants attached to As loan arrangement with B. Mr S was invited to ask further 
questions about the loan, but didnt do so.
I was wrong to say Crowdcube had presented a misleading impression of the risks 
involved in investing in A. The key relevant risks here were that A had a loan 
involving certain financial covenants, that breaching those covenants would be an 
event of default, and that further tranches of the lending were dependent on separate 
revenue targets being met. Crowdcube disclosed all those things in the pitch.
As previous breach of a loan covenant wasnt an indication of the likelihood of A 
breaching any of the new covenants, as theyd been changed. Investors were told 
the bank and A had agreed a loan arrangement and it was for those investors to 
decide whether they had any concerns about it.
I was wrong to say that the previous loan covenant breach was an indicator of the 
risk of A breaching a further covenant in future. The covenants were different so one 
had no bearing on the other.
It wasnt consistent for me to say Mr S was careful in picking his investments, yet 
didnt make further enquiries about this investment.
I conflated the covenant issue, concerning As cash position, with the revenue target 
requirements linked to the release of further tranches of its borrowing. It isnt logical 
to say A was at risk of missing a revenue target because it previously breached a 
cash covenant.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not been persuaded to depart from my provisional conclusions, and so 
make those conclusions final here. Ive thought carefully about Crowdcubes response to my 
provisional decision, and I acknowledge they disagree with my view on the importance of the 
disclosure of the loan covenant breach. But I remain of the view that failing to mention it 
meant the promotion failed to be fair, clear and not misleading. And that if it had included 
detail of the breach, Mr S wouldnt have invested. I say this largely for the reasons given in 
my provisional decision.
Crowdcube has said it wouldnt generally include information about previous covenant breaches, variations of commercial contracts, or settlements of disputes where those 
matters are fully resolved before a fund raise. And it has noted that listing prospectuses dont 
include such information. I have thought carefully about these arguments, and reviewed my 
findings bearing in mind the relevant regulations which did apply to Crowdcube. As the 
business is right to point out, these regulations dont include prescriptive rules about what 
needs to be disclosed in a financial promotion. But they do say promotions need to be fair 
clear and not misleading.
This promotion contained numerous mentions of the loan arrangements between A and B. It 
is made clear that this lending was of fundamental importance to the companys viability, and 
therefore the risk that investing in the company presented.
The promotion details that the covenants were in the process of being amended and that 
failure to comply with the covenants could result in the loan facility being called in by B. I 
accept that the newly negotiated covenants may have been on different terms, and that not 
every background detail needs to be included in a promotion in order to make it clear and 
not misleading. But in these particular circumstances, where the promotion details that A 
was reliant on a lending facility involving covenants relating to As cash position, I find that 
the promotion failed to give full context to the statements about the covenants without 
mentioning the previous breach, and wasnt fair, clear and not misleading as a result.
Even if the new covenant was different to the old one, and the previous breach had been set 
aside by B. The previous breach said something about As ability to manage its finances in 
line with a lending arrangement, of a similar nature and with the same lender. I dont think 
the technical differences between the old and renegotiated covenants get away from the fact 
that the investment in A was promoted including details of a significant loan facility, yet a 
recent breach of the terms of that facility wasnt mentioned. 
Overall Im persuaded that Crowdcube didnt treat Mr S fairly as it promoted the investment 
in A to him in a way that wasnt fair, clear and not misleading.
I also still consider that, had the promotion included detail of the breach, Mr S wouldnt have 
invested. While Mr S may not have asked any questions about the loans or the covenant, Im 
satisfied he invested on the basis of the promotion. For the reasons in my provisional 
decision, I think Mr S would have more likely than not acted differently had he known about 
the prior breach.
Putting things right
To put things right, Crowdcube should put Mr S in the position hed have been in had he not 
invested. It should therefore refund to Mr S the amount he invested in A, less anything hes 
received from the sale of the company.
Im also satisfied that seeing his investment fall in value has caused Mr S some upset. I 
consider £100 to be fair and reasonable compensation for that.  
My final decision
For the reasons given here and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Crowdcube Capital Limited must pay Mr S compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 Luke Gordon
Ombudsman