DRN-3302364
The complaint
Mr T complains about certain Contracts for Differences (CFDs) he tried to close on 
Plus500UK Ltds platform but was unable to. He says that technical problems with its 
platform made the instrument unavailable, thereby causing him a financial loss. 
What happened
On 21 April 2020 Mr T had a number of open Oil CFDs. At the time, there was widespread 
volatility in the price of oil which had dropped to the lowest prices in decades, having 
previously been negative. Mr T attempted to close some of his Oil CFDs at 11.38 and 11.39, 
but received an error message from Plus500 that said instrument unavailable. Some of his 
trades had already been closed due to him having insufficient margin to cover the unrealised 
losses on his trades. Mr T was able to eventually close his trades shortly after this error 
message. However, he considered that Plus500 were responsible for his losses because 
this was a technical error  so he complained. 
Plus500 looked into Mr Ts complaint and didnt think it had done anything wrong. In short, it 
said that widespread volatility in the price of il caused the instrument to have a wider spread 
than usual. This meant that it appeared as unavailable on the Plus500 platform. Plus500 
explained that all the instruments it offered on its platform had pre-determined tolerance 
levels and during periods of enhanced volatility, the market spread and price feeds may 
increase significantly and move more than Plus500s tolerance levels. 
It said that Mr T did have other opportunities to close his positions at other times. It said that 
Mr T had accepted this might happen when he agreed to Plus500s terms and conditions, 
and it reiterated that the unavailability of oil as an instrument during the periods in question 
was not to do with Plus500s platform, but was caused by what was happening in the 
underlying market. It also confirmed that some of his positions in oil were closed as a result 
of Mr T having insufficient margin  and this was also covered by the terms and conditions. 
Mr T remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into his complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He explained some of the 
circumstances when Plus500 were entitled to not provide a price for a particular instrument, 
and he explained the circumstances surrounding oil at the time of the events complained 
about. 
He explained that Plus500 had tolerance levels and these tolerance levels might cause an 
instrument to become unavailable if the price feeds were outside of that. He explained that in 
April 2020, due to the volatility in the underlying market, there were brief periods when a 
price wasnt available and therefore trades couldnt be executed. 
He said that the instrument was mostly able to be traded between 11.30 and 11.40. He 
therefore concluded that the unavailability of the instrument was not caused by a technical 
issue to do with Plus500s platform. 
He then considered that in any event, one of his positions had been closed due to 
insufficient margin prior to the error messages hed received. And he said that his other 
positions were closed around 17 seconds after the unavailability message he received at 
11.39. This meant that, overall, the investigator was not persuaded that Mr Ts losses had 
been caused by the unavailability of the instrument. Finally, the investigator took into 
account the terms and conditions of Mr Ts account which covered the events he had 
experienced. 
Mr T didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In short he 
said:
There were technical restrictions at the time he was looking to trade and that 
prevented him from closing his positions. 
He said that the technical limitations lasted for several minutes and his losses 
werent caused by his trading decisions. 
He said that it was unacceptable that at the times he wanted to trade the 
instruments were suspended, even if it was only for a matter of seconds. 
He said that he had spoken his lawyer who had confirmed that he was entitled to 
close his trades and that if he was prevented from doing this due to technical 
limitations and this resulted in a loss, Plus500 owed him compensation. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ts strength of feeling on this issue. However, Im sorry to say that I dont 
have much to add to the investigators initial assessment. I think its important that I explain 
to Mr T that there is no evidence of any technical problem with Plus500s platform in and of 
itself. There was no IT issue that prevented him from trading. I would add that, even if there 
was, Mr T would not be entitled to his losses  he would only be entitled to the difference in 
price between when he wanted to execute the trade and when he actually did. Mr T had 
unrealised losses which were caused by the market moving against him, and not by anything 
Plus500 did or didnt do. 
In any event, as Ive explained, what stopped Mr T from being able to close his trades for an 
extremely brief moment was not a problem with Plus500s website. Plus500 has explained 
that the well publicised and significant volatility in the trading of oil in the underlying market 
caused wider spreads than the tolerance levels it had on its platform on some brief 
occasions  and this is why at times the instrument was unavailable for trading. This is not 
an error or a mistake, nor was it a failing on Plus500s behalf. 
This is a common risk mitigation mechanism which is used when offering derivative trading  
and is designed to manage the risk of periods of volatility or illiquidity in the underlying 
market. In other words, when situations like this occur, a platform is not always able to 
provide a reliable price to trade  and when that happens, it is not obliged to. 
In addition, these moments were very brief  as the investigator pointed out, on one of the 
occasions Mr T was unable to trade for 16 seconds. This means that he was virtually able to 
trade immediately after  and did so. 
In reviewing the evidence available to me, and taking into account the price feed Plus500 was receiving, the trades Mr T was able to place throughout the day and around the times in 
question (as well as the overall position of his trades, which was loss-making), Im satisfied 
that Plus500 didnt do anything wrong  and further, that the very brief moments when the 
instrument was unavailable for trading did not in fact cause Mr Ts losses. 
Furthermore, this type of situation occurring is a common and accepted risk of trading CFDs. 
It is a risk that Mr T agreed to take, and one that is set out in both Plus500s terms and 
conditions and its Order Execution policy. 
In particular, section 13.7 of the terms says:
You acknowledge that the trading of certain instruments on the Trading Platform may 
become volatile or illiquid without warning. In such circumstances, it may not be possible to 
immediately execute orders on your behalf and trading will resume as soon as we receive a 
reliable price feed, particularly in the period shortly before an expiry, usually for Futures 
contracts and options (). 
And Plus500 also covers this eventuality in its Order Execution Policy. Section 5.5 says that:
The likelihood of execution of Clients orders depends on the availability of prices of other 
market makers/financial institutions and certain risk management limitations and defence 
levels (i.e. maximum order size). In some cases it may not be possible to arrange an Order 
for execution during abnormal market conditions, for example but not limited to the following 
cases: overnight, during news times, trading session start moments during volatile markets 
where prices may move significantly up or down and away from declared prices, where there 
is a rapid price movement, where there is insufficient liquidity for the execution of the specific 
volume at the declared price, a force majeure event, as defined in section 16.1 of the User 
Agreement, has occurred. 
Im persuaded the circumstances at the relevant time in relation to oil were caught by the 
terms above. And so for these reasons, Im satisfied that Plus500 has done nothing wrong in 
this case and has not caused the losses Mr T is claiming. Im therefore satisfied that it need 
not do anything to put matters right. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman