DRN-4271726
The complaint
Mr K complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund over £4,000 he lost to an investment 
scam.
What happened
Mr K is represented in this complaint by a solicitor but for simplicity I will largely refer just to 
Mr K, even when referencing what his representatives have said and done on his behalf.
Mr K fell victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam after a friend of a friend told him they 
had made good profits and could help him do the same. This individual told him to open an 
account with a cryptocurrency trading platform, and Mr K then took out a loan (also with 
Monzo) which he used to fund the £4,015 of payments he made to that platform. I 
understand his funds were then transferred elsewhere under the guise of placing trades.
Mr K says he had access to an investment platform which appeared to show that he had 
made a profit on his investments. But when Mr K said he wanted to withdraw his profits he 
was told hed need to make further payments, and he became suspicious. When he raised 
his suspicions with the scammer they blocked his access to the investment platform and 
blocked any further contact from him. Mr K contacted a third-party representative to see if he 
could get his money back, and its at this stage that the scam was reported to Monzo.
Ultimately Monzo did not agree that it had any obligation to refund any of the payments to 
Mr K. It said it provided appropriate warnings about scams, and that Mr K had not taken 
appropriate steps to verify the legitimacy of the investment. Mr K remained unhappy, so he 
referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. They thought that Monzo ought to have 
questioned Mr K about the fourth payment he made, for £3,700, as by then a pattern was 
emerging that indicated Mr K could be at financial risk. The investigator felt that more 
detailed questioning from Monzo at that stage would likely have uncovered the scam. So 
they said that Monzo should refund the money Mr K had lost from this payment onwards, 
less a deduction of 50% in recognition of Mr Ks own contributory negligence. 
Monzo disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr K has fallen victim to a scam here, nor that he authorised the 
disputed payments he made to the scammer (either from his debit card or through the faster 
payments he made). The payments were requested by him using his legitimate security 
credentials provided by Monzo, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the 
instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Monzo should have done more to prevent Mr K from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character or was indictive of a common scam.
Mr K made five payments, on the same day, to a new payee. Two of these were card 
payments but the rest were transfers, and they were all to a cryptocurrency platform, which 
Mr K did not appear to have used before. The first few payments were relatively low - £5, 
£20 and £280  and given their low value I dont think these should necessarily have been 
flagged as unusual or potentially suspicious by Monzo.
But the fourth payment was much higher - £3,700  and while the size of the payment alone 
may not have been wholly unusual for Mr Ks account (he had made larger transfers in the 
period before the scam) I think the situation as a whole at this stage should have rung alarm 
bells for Monzo. By this payment Mr K had made four payments of increasing size, in very 
quick succession, to a new payee associated with cryptocurrency, and this had all been 
preceded by him taking out a loan which he then used in almost its entirety to fund these 
payments to the cryptocurrency platform. 
I say this because banks such as Monzo ought to have a good enough understanding of 
how these scams work to have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud, and the 
pattern that was being established here had some clear hallmarks of a potential scam.
Monzo has said that it provided a written warning, but that warning was relatively generic, it 
didnt set out details of what any specific scam might look like to the customer or include any 
questions Mr K had to answer about what he was doing. And in any case, this warning 
appears to have only been provided for the very first payment  for £5  and not for the 
£3,700 payment which I feel should have been flagged as potentially suspicious by Monzo.
And if Monzo had asked proportionate questions when Mr K made the £3,700 payment 
request. I see no reason why Mr K wouldnt have told the truth. If Monzo had asked how 
Mr K found out about the investment, what he understood about the investment and the 
potential returns, and if Monzo had warned Mr K about the risks involved in trading in 
cryptocurrency and the prevalence of scams in this area I think its more likely than not the 
scam would have come to light and some of Mr Ks loss would have been avoided.
Monzo does not believe it is liable for Mr Ks loss as it said it occurred from his 
cryptocurrency account rather than his Monzo account. However, Monzo is aware of our 
general position that it is fair and reasonable for payment service providers to take steps to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. 
So while I understand that the cryptocurrency platform is a legitimate trader, I think Monzo 
still should have provided a detailed scam warning in light of all the information known to 
banks about the increasing number of scams associated with cryptocurrency. And even if an 
intervention by Monzo identified that the payment was going to Mr Ks own cryptocurrency 
account the conversation should not have stopped only on the basis that the money 
appeared to be going somewhere safe and within the consumers control.
I say this because Monzo ought reasonably to have had a good enough understanding of 
how these scams work to know that the consumer often first purchases a crypto asset or 
sends money to a platform where the money is subsequently moved on to or taken by the 
fraudster. So with all of this in mind, Im satisfied that had Monzo asked relevant questions of Mr K, it 
would have been apparent that he was falling victim to a scam. In other words, but for 
Monzos failure to make further enquiries, it would have been on notice that Mr K was 
potentially going to suffer financial harm from fraud and would more likely than not have 
been able to prevent Mr Ks further loss.
I do though agree with our Investigator that Mr K should bear some responsibility for his loss 
here.
Mr K has told us the investment opportunity was presented to him by a friend of a friend who 
he had never met in person, and he doesnt appear to have done any other checks or 
research to ensure that the opportunity being presented to him was legitimate. With this in 
mind Im satisfied a 50% deduction is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive also thought about whether Monzo could have done more to recover the funds after 
Mr K reported the fraud. However, in these circumstances, Mr K transferred money to his 
own account before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So Monzo 
wouldnt have the same obligations as the bank responsible for the eventual transfer to the 
scammers account. I also know, from experience of these kinds of cases, that scammers 
invariably will move the proceeds of their scams on very quickly, to avoid them being 
recalled. So any delay in a scam being reported, means that the prospect of recovery is very 
slim. And in this case, Mr K did not report the scam to Monzo until over six months after the 
payments were made. With all of this in mind, I dont consider that Monzo could have done 
more to recover the money that Mr K has lost. 
So, in summary, I consider when Mr K made the fourth transfer, Monzo could have done 
more to protect him from the risk of financial harm. Had Monzo contacted Mr K directly and 
asked some open questions about what was happening, Im persuaded it is more likely than 
not the scam would have come to light, and Mr K wouldnt have lost out on the £3,710 he 
then went on to transfer. But I do consider that Mr K could have done more to protect himself 
from this loss, so I consider that liability for the loss should be shared. So I consider it fair 
and reasonable for Monzo to refund 50% of that amount to Mr K, along with interest at our 
standard compensatory rate of 8%.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Monzo should:
- Refund 50% of the fourth and fifth payments  representing a refund of £1,855 
- Pay 8% simple interest per annum on this amount, calculated from 2 April 2022 until 
the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Monzo Bank Ltd should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman