DRN-3879241
The complaint
Miss A and Mr A complain that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) only paid a 
fraction of their claim for replacement locks and keys under their motor insurance policy. 
I will refer to Mr A throughout my decision for ease of reading.
What happened
Mr A has a multi-car policy with Admiral. He added his daughters car to the policy in April 
2022. He says his daughters handbag was later stolen containing the only set of keys for 
the car. Neither the handbag nor the keys were recovered. Mr A says this meant all the locks 
had to be changed. This was in addition to the engine control unit (ECU) as there was no 
spare key to code a replacement from. The meant the work cost £2,214.34 to complete.
Mr As policy limits the cover to £300 if car keys are lost or stolen and the locks and keys 
need to be replaced. He says there is an add-on to the policy that would provide additional 
cover, but this wasnt mentioned by Admiral. As the vehicle only had one key, he says he 
wouldve taken this cover had he known of the policy limitations. 
In addition, Mr A says there are many online documents available through his online 
account, but the £300 limit isnt mentioned. He says Admiral didnt send him a policy booklet 
by post or online. He thinks comprehensive cover should mean the full cost of his claim is 
covered.
Admiral says Mr A didnt request additional cover, which is available under its KeyCare 
feature. It says it wouldnt offer cover unless requested but that the full terms and conditions 
were made available for Mr A to read. 
Mr A didnt think this was fair and asked our service to consider the matter. Our investigator 
didnt uphold his complaint. She says the policy terms were provided in a link Mr A received 
from Admiral in his welcome pack. This explained the cover provided in the event of lost or 
stolen keys. She also says that a link to his policy booklet is included in his online account. 
Mr A didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.     
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr As complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him. I can 
understand that it must be upsetting and frustrating that his insurer isnt going to cover the 
loss claimed. But I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive read the policy booklet relevant to Mr As policy. This covers all the cars included under 
his multi-car policy. The terms under section two, Damage to your vehicle say: 
Lost or Stolen Keys:
If you lose your vehicles keys, or any other ignition device, or they are stolen from 
somewhere other than your vehicle, we will pay up to £300 towards the cost of replacing the 
locks and keys. Once we agree to your claim, you must pay to have your locks and keys 
replaced and we will reimburse you up to £300. If you only claim under this benefit, you do 
not have to pay an excess and your No Claims Bonus will not be affected.
I think the terms are clearly written. In the circumstances described, where Miss As keys 
were stolen along with her handbag, the policy pays up to £300 to replace the locks and 
keys. I note Mr As comments that this payment has yet to be made. But based on the terms 
of the policy Admiral acted fairly in confirming this is the cover available. 
Ive thought about Mr As comments that he wasnt aware of the KeySafe option. Also, his 
view that a comprehensive policy should cover this loss and that he wasnt provided with a 
copy of the policy booklet. 
Admiral provided us with a copy of the welcome pack Mr A was sent when he first took out a 
policy with it in 2018.  This says he should register online to review all his insurance 
documents and check to see that all details are correct. The email says he should read all 
the Insurance Product Information Documents (IPID) provided along with the other policy 
documents. 
Ive seen a screenshot of the information Mr A would see when accessing his online 
account. This says, Please click below to view your policy booklets and IPIDs. Details of 
your cover can be found on the Policy Schedule(s). There are two buttons provided that link 
to IPIDs and to the policy booklet.
From reviewing this information, I think it was made clear to Mr A that he, and the other 
policyholders, should read all the policy information provided to ensure their details and 
cover was correct. 
The policy schedule relating to Miss As policy says this must be read along with, Your Car 
Insurance Guide, which is available online at www.admiral.com. Instructions are provided 
for the policy holder to check this document carefully and contact Admiral if anything needs 
changing. I was able to access the relevant policy booklet following this web link and 
searching for Your Car Insurance Guide. 
I note Mr As comments, but I dont think its reasonable to expect that all the policy terms 
and conditions would be mentioned over the phone, given the large number of terms 
contained in the policy. Similarly, I dont think Admiral is liable to pay the full cost of replacing 
the locks and keys because it didnt inform Mr A or Miss A about possible add-on features. 
Id expect Admiral to provide clear information to allow Mr A to understand the cover it was 
providing. Im satisfied that it did this. The policy booklet was specifically highlighted and 
made accessible via the online account, which Mr A confirms he had access to. This was 
also accessible via Admirals website. 
In his submissions to our service Mr A refers to one of the decision outcomes published on 
our website. He says the decision was in favour of the customer, which had similarities to his 
complaint. I acknowledge what he says, but I dont agree. The circumstances in the case 
referenced are different. This includes the customer not having access to their policy terms. 
My focus here is on the circumstances and evidence relating to Mr As complaint. He did 
have access to the policy terms explaining what cover was in place, as Ive discussed. Having considered all of this, although Im sorry Miss A isnt covered for the full extent of her 
loss, I dont think Admiral behaved unfairly when relying on its policy terms and limiting the 
payment provided to £300. The evidence Ive seen shows the policy booklet was clearly 
highlighted, and Mr A was told to ensure the cover provided met his needs. Because of this I 
cant reasonably require Admiral to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman