DRN-2911729
The complaint
Mr M complains that Vanguard Asset Management Ltd (Vanguard) failed to complete the 
transfer of some pension savings he held with another provider in a timely manner.
What happened
Mr M held pension savings with another provider. In March 2020 he discussed the transfer of 
those pension savings into a self-invested personal pension plan (SIPP) that he held with 
Vanguard. Vanguard explained to Mr M that it would facilitate the process, and liaise with the 
other provider to ensure the pension savings were transferred as efficiently as possible. 
Vanguard explained that the transfer could take up to a month to complete. It told Mr M that 
it could only accept cash transfers, and so there was the potential for his pension savings to 
be uninvested (or out of the market) for up to a week and a half.
Mr M asked Vanguard to proceed with the transfer on 1 April 2020. The following day 
Vanguard sent the transfer request to Mr Ms existing provider. The transfer payment was 
sent to Vanguard by BACS and arrived on 9 April. It was added to Mr Ms SIPP the following 
day, and his investment instructions were implemented on the next dealing day. Due to the 
bank holidays over the Easter period, those investments were completed on 14 April.
Mr M complained that Vanguard hadnt managed the end-to-end transfer as effectively as it 
should have. He said the automated industry transfer system, Origo Options, should allow 
transfers to complete in a matter of hours, or at worst one or two days. He said that 
Vanguard should have ensured that his previous pension provider used a same day service 
to transfer his pension savings, or sought his advice if the transfer would take longer. And he 
said that Vanguard had received the transfer early enough to allow his pension savings to 
have been invested on 9 April. Vanguard didnt agree with Mr Ms complaint so he brought 
the matter to us.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think Vanguard 
had done anything wrong. He thought that Vanguard had acted on Mr Ms transfer request in 
a timely manner. And he didnt think it reasonable to hold Vanguard responsible for the 
decisions taken by the other pension provider about how to make the transfer of the funds. 
Our investigator thought that the funds had been applied to Mr Ms SIPP on receipt, and had 
been invested at the first opportunity. So the investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr M didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr M and by Vanguard. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
It is common in the pensions industry for the provider that is receiving a transfer to take 
ownership of the process. And generally that provider would be expected to provide updates 
to a consumer about the likely timescales, and any delays. But that doesnt mean the 
receiving provider should be held responsible for the actions of the sending firm  clearly the 
receiving firm (Vanguard in this case) has little control of the actions taken by a third party.
I have listened carefully to a call that took place between Mr M and Vanguard in early 
March 2020. There is some disagreement about the exact date of that call  Vanguard says 
the call took place on 9 March, whereas Mr Ms notes suggest the call was on 6 March. But 
I dont think the discrepancy in the dates is something that I need to look into any further, or 
resolve. I am entirely satisfied that the call recording Vanguard has provided to us is of the 
call that Mr M references in his complaint.
On the call Mr M discusses with Vanguard how the proposed transfer would work. I think the 
key information Vanguard provided to Mr M was about the likely timescales, and the need for 
the transfer to take place in cash  it told Mr M that it could not accept any in specie transfer, 
even if the investments were in its own funds.
In terms of the timescales, Vanguard only provided Mr M with relatively high-level details. It 
told him that transfers of this nature could take up to 30 days to complete. But it reassured 
Mr M that generally the other provider wouldnt disinvest his pension savings until shortly 
before it was ready to complete the transfer. Vanguard did however warn Mr M that this 
would mean that he might be out of the market for a period of up to one and a half weeks.
As I explained earlier I should take account of good industry practice when looking at how 
long a transfer should take to complete. And, to a degree, that aligns with how Mr M thinks 
Vanguards performance should be assessed. Vanguard told him that it would ensure his 
pension savings were transferred as efficiently as possible. And Mr M has said that this 
transfer should be considered in the light of how long other transfers have taken when he 
was dealing with other providers.
Some general expectations about transfer timescales were set out in June 2018 by what 
was known as the Transfers and Re-registration Industry Group (TRIG). The group was 
formed to review current transfer and reregistration processes, and comprised ten 
participating trade bodies and their nominated member representatives. The document it 
produced suggested that for a transfer of pensions savings held in cash, an end-to-end 
standard of ten business days should be considered reasonable (including up to three days 
for the transfer of funds using the BACS system). But it also notes the complexity of some 
transfers, and that in some circumstances those timescales will be exceeded.Parts of the transfer were entirely outside of Vanguards control. Once it had made the 
transfer request via Origo, it needed to wait for the existing provider to complete its checks. 
Those would have included ensuring that Mr M had given his agreement to the transfer, as 
well as ensuring that Vanguard was correctly registered to receive funds of this nature. 
Vanguard would also have no control over any processing delays that might be experienced 
by the other provider. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Vanguard to warn Mr M that 
transfers of this nature could take up to 30 days to complete.
I think it is important for me to set out my interpretation of the phrase that Mr M has focussed 
on when constructing this complaint. As Ive said, Vanguard said that it would ensure Mr Ms 
pension savings were transferred as efficiently as possible. But I dont agree with Mr M that 
this means his pension savings must be transferred as soon as they possibly could be. 
Vanguard, and the other provider, would also be dealing with pension transfer requests from 
other consumers. I think it entirely right that each transfer should be dealt with in turn. So 
that will naturally mean that a degree of queueing might take place before either provider 
was ready to complete its processing activities.
Here Vanguard sent the transfer instruction to the existing provider the day after it had been 
received. I dont think that timeframe is anything other than reasonable. And Vanguard 
received the transferred funds, and applied them to Mr Ms SIPP, six working days after the 
original transfer request. So I cannot do anything other than conclude that the transfer was 
completed well within what would be considered to be good industry practice (ten working 
days).
It was unfortunate that Vanguard needed to apply Mr Ms pension savings to his SIPP 
immediately before the Easter bank holiday weekend. That meant there was an extended 
period before the markets reopened and it was able to fulfil his investment instructions. But 
that doesnt suggest any fault on the part of Vanguard  it had no way of completing the 
investment of Mr Ms pension savings any sooner, considering the point at which they were 
received from the other provider. Effectively Mr Ms pension savings were invested on the 
business day following Vanguards receipt of the funds  again I dont think that Vanguard 
has done anything wrong.
Mr M has explained that other transfers he has been involved with have completed far 
quicker. He has said that other providers have completed their processing on the same day 
that instructions were received. And that they offered him the option of his pension savings 
being transferred using a same day payment method. But based on what Ive explained 
above I dont think those timescales necessarily suggest that Vanguard has treated his 
transfer inefficiently, or that it has failed to manage the process effectively. 
Mr Ms transfer was completed well within the timescales that Vanguard first set out when it 
discussed with Mr M what would happen. And the transfer was completed within the 
timescales set out as being representative of good industry practice. I entirely accept that 
other transfers might have been completed more quickly. But there are also many transfers 
that I have dealt with that have been completed more slowly. I dont think that the information 
Vanguard provided to Mr M gave him any reasonable expectation that his transfer would be 
completed at least as quickly as any other transfer in the industry. 
So I dont think that Vanguard has done anything wrong here. I think it set out the likely 
maximum timescales for the transfer. And it completed the transfer well before what might 
be considered industry good practice (which included an allowance for the transfer of the 
funds using the normal three-day BACS system that the other provider used here).My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Vanguard Asset Management Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman