DRN-3117466
The complaint
Mrs K complains about the resolution HDI Global SE (HDI) offered her following a claim 
under her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Ks property was damaged by an escape of water that had occurred in the flat above. 
She contacted HDI and raised a claim. HDI sent a surveyor to assess the damage and 
validate the claim and a schedule of works was drawn up with costings. HDI asked Mrs K to 
obtain two quotes. The two quotes Mrs K got were £5,395 and £6,968 and were well over 
£4,000 more than HDIs costings. 
Mrs K submitted the quotes to HDI, who didnt accept the quotes as it said that the 
contractors quotes were excessive and not like for like. Also, the quotations werent on 
headed paper so the contractors couldnt be validated. 
HDI offered to appoint contractors to carry out the repairs or offered a cash settlement of 
£1,150. Mrs K didnt accept this as a resolution so raised a complaint and referred it to our 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said that HDI 
could decide how it would settle the claim and the options it offered were fair and 
reasonable. She concluded that it wouldnt be fair for her to recommend that HDI offer to pay 
more than it wouldve paid for its own contractors to carry out the work, especially as Mrs Ks 
quotes were not on a like for like basis.
HDI accepted her view, Mrs K did not. She said that our investigators view wasnt impartial 
as it took HDIs side. She felt that she should be able to choose who carried out the work 
and that she had had a previous bad experience with workmen from insurance companies.  
She also said that she couldnt reply earlier as her mental health had suffered. So, she 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that Mrs K will be disappointed 
with this outcome, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this 
decision.
Mrs Ks policy entitled her to be returned into the position she wouldve been in had her 
property not been damaged. The policy also allowed for any repairs on a like for like basis. 
This means that it isnt there to provide betterment. 
HDI asked Mrs K to provide two quotes. Mrs K did just that. But HDI said that both quotes 
were considerably higher than its surveyor had quantified. HDI felt that the quotations 
included work that hadnt been affected by the leak and there was no way for it to verify the 
builders that Mrs K wanted to use. So, it offered Mrs K to either use its contractors to carry 
out the repairs or offered a cash settlement (less any excess).  
Under the claim conditions of the policy it stipulates that HDI is entitled to:  pay to you the 
maximum sum payable under section 3  in respect of any occurrence or any lesser sum for 
which the claim or claims arising from such occurrence can be settled and we shall not be 
under any further liability in respect of that occurrence except for the payment of costs and 
expenses of litigation incurred prior to such payment.  I have had a thought about what this 
means, and I think it allows HDI to choose how it settled the claim. Consequently, I dont 
think HDI was unreasonable to make the offer as it did, as the policy allowed this.
I understand that Mrs K seeks more than HDI offered. But I have reviewed the scope of work 
that HDI compiled and I think it is comprehensive. Im also persuaded that HDI didnt have 
the opportunity to validate the quotes and a few items included in them, werent affected by 
the leak. 
Mrs K has said that she should be able to choose the contractors who carry out the repairs. I 
think that HDI has given Mrs K this opportunity with its offer of a cash settlement. So, if Mrs 
K wishes she can instruct the contractors she wants to. Accordingly, I dont think HDI was 
unreasonable in its offer. So, I cant fairly ask HDI to increase its offer further or change the 
resolution it made. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I think the offer of either a cash settlement of £1,150 (less any 
excess) or for HDI Global SE to appoint contractors to carry out the repairs, is fair and 
reasonable. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman