DRN-3427136
The complaint
Mr C complained that the online platform operated by Artemis Fund Managers Limited 
(Artemis) was unclear and misleading. He said this led to him instructing Artemis to sell his 
holdings and withdraw the cash proceeds - which hadnt ever been his intention as it took his 
money outside an ISA wrapper. 
To put things right Mr C wants Artemis to compensate him for the potential loss of 14 years 
tax efficient savings. 
What happened
Since 2007, Mr C has held a stocks and shares ISA with Artemis. He paid money into it on a 
monthly basis  and, in some years, he topped-up his contributions to take full advantage of 
the annual ISA allowance. 
On 7 February 2021, Mr C decided to move his ISA to a new platform and he gave 
instructions for the transfer to the new provider. On 12 March 2021, he was advised by the 
new provider that it could not accept the share classes for most of the assets in his ISA. 
Mr C said his options were to either instruct Artemis to convert the share class of those 
assets that couldnt be accepted by his new platform provider or sell and convert to cash. 
In mid-March 2021, frustrated at the lack of progress, Mr C decided to arrange the sale 
himself of all the assets that could not be transferred to cash, as he thought this would allow 
his planned ISA transfer to complete. Mr C went online and completed steps on Artemis 
client portal with the intention of instructing Artemis to sell funds to cash within the ISA 
wrapper. 
He was shocked when Artemis contacted him shortly afterwards to discuss sending him a 
cheque for the sale proceeds  around £177,000. 
Mr C complained to Artemis that he had never intended to have the funds reimbursed. He 
was unhappy that there had been no clear warnings on Artemis client portal informing him 
that his actions would take the cash outside the ISA wrapper nor was he asked to provide 
bank details to confirm where he wanted the funds delivered to  he said he would not have 
gone through with the sale in either of those circumstances.
When Mr C complained about this to Artemis, it didnt agree it had done anything wrong 
because it had acted on the instructions he gave. Nevertheless, it contacted HMRC on 
Mr Cs behalf to see if his money could effectively be returned to its ISA wrapper and treated 
for tax purposes as if it had never been removed. 
But HMRC felt that the withdrawal was the result of an error on the part of Mr C and, to 
ensure a consistent approach, it couldnt authorise approval to reinstate the ISA wrapper to 
the funds withdrawn.
Artemis said that as Mr C had sold his ISA independently, outside the established process 
for transferring ISAs between plan managers, this had resulted in his funds being liquidated 
and removed from the ISA wrapper. 
It said it would have been unaware that it was really Mr Cs intention to expedite the transfer 
of his ISA because he withdrew the funds from his ISA on his own initiative. And, had he 
contacted Artemis before doing this, it would have confirmed that ISA transfers cannot be 
transacted online and that Artemis does not offer the facility to sell assets and keep the cash 
within the ISA wrapper.   
Mr C wasn't happy with this response so he brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened. He checked the process that Mr C 
would have had to go through. Our investigator thought that Artemis website made it clear 
that by completing the steps he took online, Mr C was selling his holdings and withdrawing 
the cash. He said this effectively overrode Mr Cs previous instructions to transfer his ISA. 
So he couldnt say that Artemis had done anything wrong when it had followed Mr Cs most 
recent instructions and sent him a cheque for the proceeds. 
As a result, our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C said he didnt accept this and he sent detailed responses explaining why he didnt 
agree with our investigator. 
In brief summary, I understand Mr Cs main concerns are that:
the instructions on Artemis website werent fair and reasonable  in particular, there 
was never a clear explanation that what he was doing would lead to money coming 
out of the ISA wrapper
he didnt think his expectation that Artemis could hold cash in a stocks and shares 
ISA was unreasonable and he saw nothing on Artemis website or in the terms of 
business he could find to inform him otherwise 
he knew that Artemis didnt hold bank details for him. So it was reasonable to think 
that if proceeds were to be paid out, he would have been asked to provide that 
information as part of this process. Mr C said he didnt understand why the 
investigator believed that it was reasonable for Artemis to issue a cheque without any 
warning  given that Mr C couldnt recollect the last time he had seen a cheque 
before this  
he felt HMRC had concluded it couldnt help largely because Artemis had said it 
didnt agree that its client portal was unclear and misleading or that it was at fault for 
what happened  which Mr C disputes. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator.I sympathise with Mr C  I can understand that whats happened has been upsetting and 
frustrating for him. 
Id like to reassure Mr C that Ive considered everything both sides have provided. Ive 
focused on the core issues in deciding the complaint and no discourtesy is intended if I do 
not address every point raised. 
My starting point is that it is fair and reasonable for a business to act on an instruction from a 
consumer. Mr C gave a transfer instruction but then changed that instruction. 
I have carefully considered whether the way things were set out on (or omitted from) 
Artemis website was misleading. 
Artemis said options available on the web portal are to Buy, Withdraw and Fund Switch and 
ISA Transfers cannot be transacted online.
It appears that from these available options Mr C first selected the option to Withdraw and 
next he was invited to answer the question: How much would you like to sell? After filling in 
this information, Mr C was required to confirm his withdrawal instruction. 
At any stage up to this point, if Mr C had chosen to verify what he was doing or had any 
doubts about what the effect of his instructions would be, he couldve pulled out of the online 
process and the shares in his ISA would not have been sold.
To give effect to his withdrawal/sale instruction, Mr C was required to click Submit to finish 
the process  which he did. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think Artemis website made it clear that Mr C would be selling 
shares and withdrawing the cash proceeds. 
The client portal uses clear language - the terms sell and withdraw are intended to have 
their natural meaning and used that way. 
The fact alone that the site didnt include the warnings Mr C feels it ought to have shown isnt 
enough for me to be able to uphold his complaint. 
I must be impartial. From Artemis point of view, I dont think it should or could have known in 
advance that Mr C had made the assumption that his sale proceeds would remain in the ISA 
wrapper. 
There isnt anything on the website that would have prompted Mr C to think that his 
withdrawal and selling instructions had anything other than their literal meaning or that the 
funds would remain within the ISA wrapper when he instructed the sale and withdrawal. 
The fact that some ISA managers are able to hold funds as cash, whilst remaining within a 
stocks and shares ISA, doesnt mean that Artemis has to offer such a facility  it has 
confirmed that it does not and I havent seen anything to make me think that information isnt 
correct or that anything on its website might reasonably have prompted Mr C to think that 
was the case.
It may be that use of cheques is less widespread now. But even though Artemis didnt hold 
bank account details for Mr C, I dont think that was enough of a reason for Mr C to conclude 
this meant the sale proceeds would remain in an ISA wrapper. And I cant fairly say that Artemis acted incorrectly when it sent him the sale proceeds by 
cheque.  
In order to uphold Mr Cs complaint I must find that Artemis has done something wrong or 
acted in a way that isnt fair and reasonable. I havent seen enough here to make me think 
that. 
I understand Mr Cs disappointment at the situation he finds himself in and I accept that he 
made a genuine mistake on this occasion, but Im not persuaded Artemis has done anything 
wrong in acting on his instructions. And it was for HMRC to reach its own conclusions. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr C but Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman