DRN-2706557
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Zurich Assurance Ltd wouldnt pay their daughters critical 
illness claim.
What happened
In 2001 Mr and Mrs R took out three 20-year fixed term life assurance policies with critical 
illness cover  two single policies (one each) and a joint policy. The single policies offered, 
amongst other things, child critical illness cover at no additional cost.
Sadly, in 2019 their daughter became ill and Mr and Mrs R contacted Zurich to try and claim. 
However, Zurich told them their daughter wasnt covered as she was over the age of 18. 
It said the terms and conditions of the child critical illness cover make it clear this benefit is 
only available for children between the ages of 3 and 18. 
Mr and Mrs R complained to Zurich. They said they were not aware of this and felt Zurich 
ought to have made them aware given theyd continued to pay for the policies with this 
benefit despite the fact their daughter was no longer covered. They noted Zurich regularly 
wrote to them stating it had reviewed their cover and at no point was this raised. 
Zurich didnt uphold their complaint. It said that the terms and conditions were clear. It also 
held no details of Mr and Mrs Rs children or their ages so it wouldnt have been able to 
notify them of the fact their children were no longer covered. It said the reviews it carried out 
were in relation to Mr and Mrs Rs protection and not the additional benefits within the plans. 
It noted these updates werent providing Mr and Mrs R with financial advice, simply 
information. 
Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things and was of the view that Zurich had acted reasonably.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed. They noted they were paying for three policies and were of the 
opinion one of these was to cover their children. So, they asked for an ombudsman to look at 
everything again and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear of Mr and Mrs Rs daughters illness and Id like to extend my sympathies 
to the entire family.
Having looked at the evidence here, Im of the view that Zurich has acted reasonably  Ill 
explain why.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs policies. The joint policy has no 
child critical illness benefit. The single policies have this benefit, but they state that 
Benefits will not be paid unless the conditions and operations listed below arose or are 
undergone after the 3rd birthday and before the 18th birthday of the relevant Child. 
Given Mr and Mrs Rs daughter fell ill several years after her 18th birthday, she clearly isnt 
eligible for cover under either policy.
Whilst I can understand why Mr and Mrs R would be frustrated because they felt they were 
paying for a child critical illness policy that is no use to them, this isnt actually whats 
happened here. Mr and Mrs R never had a specific child critical illness policy  they had two 
single policies to protect themselves and these policies simply included cover for children for 
free.
Im not sure where Mr and Mrs Rs confusion about their policies has arisen, but I think its 
clear from their policy schedules that this is what their cover is for. I also think its clear 
children are only covered until their 18th birthday.
Given this cover wasnt a paid for additional benefit, I wouldnt expect Zurich to make efforts 
to establish whether this was still relevant to Mr and Mrs R in its reviews. I say this noting the 
children werent named beneficiaries on the policy either, such that it would have been 
evident to Zurich that this was no longer needed. So, I dont think Zurich has done anything 
wrong in not bringing this to Mr and Mrs Rs attention.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman