DRN-4342288
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr R are unhappy with the way they have been treated by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. They said incorrect missed payments have been reported on their credit file which has 
caused them a significant amount of stress and worry.
What happened
Mr R is a landlord with a large portfolio of properties and overpays on these mortgages. Mrs 
J and Mr R said that Barclays incorrectly reported negative information on their credit file 
which has had a significant impact on them. They said they wanted to remortgage three of 
their properties, but these got declined as did two applications for credit cards. 
Mrs J and Mr R also said that the telephone number on the letters they received were 
incorrect as it wasnt for the buy to let team. They also said Barclays never called them back 
when Mrs J and Mr R requested them to do so.
Barclays issued a final response letter in February 2022 and upheld the complaint for the 
error they made to Mrs J and Mr Rs credit file and for the poor service they received. 
Barclays said there was a change in their process for applying overpayments to mortgages 
and that overpayments were now being capitalised. Barclays said they capitalised the 
payments that Mrs J and Mr R made in error for 18 out of the 20 buy to let mortgages they 
held. Barclays said they have removed all adverse reporting for the 18 accounts for October 
2021.
Barclays said that when an overpayment is over three times the contractual monthly 
payment, in line with their terms and conditions, this is taken as a part redemption which is 
why the payments are not registering which then result in arrears letters being generated. 
They said that in order to try and resolve that issue, Mrs J and Mr R would need to pay by 
direct debit with a confirmed overpayment or set up two standing orders.
Barclays confirmed that the telephone number for the buy to let team on their letters is 
correct, but they have a residential team that take overflow calls when they are busy. They 
also recognised that they failed to call Mrs J and Mr R within the timeframes set. 
Barclays offered Mrs J and Mr R £200 compensation for the stress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Mrs J and Mr R disagreed with what Barclays said. They explained that they have never had 
issues with their credit file and have always paid on time. They said that they were unable to 
remortgage three of their mortgages and lost out on a five-year fixed rate mortgage deal 
because the applications were declined. They also said they applied for two credit cards 
which were also subsequently declined, and one of those had free fees abroad. So hes also 
paid a fee when he went away. Mrs J and Mr R said this has caused them a great deal of 
stress and would like Barclays to recognise that. 
So Mrs J and Mr R brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it 
was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said 
that since the issue with the credit file in October 2021, Mrs J and Mr R have said that further 
information has been reported by Barclays. Our investigator said that Barclays should help 
Mr R set up his payments in a way that will avoid missed payments being reported and 
remove all incorrect adverse data from his credit file. He explained that if Barclays are 
unable to do so, they should stop reporting these accounts altogether as if the correct 
information cant be recorded, then none should be recorded at all until the issue can be 
fixed. 
Our investigator also thought that Mrs J and Mr R would more than likely have been 
approved for the remortgage applications they made in December 2021 on the rate of 
1.49%. So he said that Barclays should calculate the difference in the rates that Mrs J and 
Mr R were paying, against what they would have paid  and refund these to them. 
Our investigator also concluded that Barclays should increase the compensation offered to 
£1,300 for the distress and inconvenience caused. He acknowledged that £300 of this was 
for the trouble and upset caused by Mr Rs credit card applications being declined and to 
cover any foreign currency fees he had to pay while he was away. 
Mrs J and Mr R accepted the outcome of the investigator. Barclays said they would require 
further information before accepting or rejecting the opinion of the investigator. They asked 
for the following:
Full copy of Mr Rs credit file
Evidence of the three mortgages that Mr R applied for on a rate of 1.49%, including 
the mortgage offers. They also noted that Mr R was already on a two-year fixed rate 
mortgage since April 2021 so questioned whether any early repayment charges were 
going to be charged for exiting those deals early. 
Evidence of the two credit card applications that Mr R applied for and evidence of 
foreign currency charges and fees
Our investigator sent Barclays the information they required and explained that if we didnt 
hear back from Barclays by the deadline given, the case would be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. Barclays asked for some additional time to review the information  and said 
they would respond by 8 June 2023. 
As Barclays hadnt sent a response at that time, the case was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 31 July 2023. I said:
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into consideration everything that Mrs J and Mr R have said, and I know 
they feel very strongly about their complaint. They have provided detailed comments 
in support of their views which I can confirm Ive read and understood in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mrs J and Mr R will not take the fact that my findings 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in 
considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them. 
There isnt any doubt here that Barclays incorrectly reported against Mrs J and Mr 
Rs credit file in October 2021 due to a change in how they process overpayments on 
mortgages  this is not in dispute. 
Barclays have said they will remove all adverse reporting for the mortgage accounts 
that were affected by this error  which is what we would have expected them to do 
in this instance. However, Mrs J and Mr R have said that there have been other 
instances where their credit file has been affected due to the same reasons. Barclays 
will need to rectify this and remove any further adverse credit from Mrs J and Mr Rs 
credit file until this issue can be resolved. They should help Mr R set up the direct 
debit or standing order on his account to ensure that any overpayments go through correctly. He has said he has tried to do so but its still not working. Like our 
investigator said, if Barclays cannot rectify Mrs J and Mr Rs credit file due to the 
issues with how the payments are credited  they should not report anything on the 
credit files until this issue is resolved. 
However, the crux of this complaint is now the affect that this has had on Mrs J and 
Mr R. They have told us that they wanted to remortgage three of their mortgages 
onto a cheaper fixed rate mortgage  1.49% over a five-year period. And that Mr R 
had two credit card applications declined, which he wanted to use abroad. This 
resulted in him being charged fees on the other cards he used. 
I contacted Barclays to explain that having reviewed everything, I agreed with the 
outcome of the investigator and told Barclays it was in Mr Rs best interests to try and 
get this resolved as quickly as possible. All evidence that Barclays asked for has 
been sent to them, but they are yet to respond. So Ill explain below what I have 
considered and what Barclays need to do to put things right for Mrs J and Mr R.
We have sent Barclays Mr Rs credit file which shows the impact that the adverse 
credit has had on him. This impacted Mr R being able to remortgage three of his buy 
to let properties to a lower interest rate.
Mrs J and Mr R already had a mortgage with a lender for three of those properties 
and I have seen all three mortgage offers. These offers show that Mrs J and Mr R 
would have paid an ERC if they wanted to come out of their deal early. The offer 
shows that Mrs J and Mr R would have paid 2% of the amount repaid on or before 
30/04/2022 or 1% if paid on or before 30/04/2023.
Mrs J and Mr R approached their broker in December 2021 who looked at the option 
of Mrs J and Mr R remortgaging to another lender and paying the ERC
I have also seen an email from the broker which confirms that they completed a 
decision in principle on one of the applications (as they said the decision in principle 
had to be done one at a time), to move lender and get a rate of 1.49% on a five-year 
fixed rate. I have seen a screen shot which shows that the application was declined  
which is more likely than not the impact of the errors made by Barclays on Mrs J and 
Mr Rs credit file.
The broker explained that they didnt proceed with the other two applications 
because the first one was declined, and they didnt want to impact Mrs J and Mr Rs 
credit score any further  which is totally understandable. Mrs J and Mr Rs broker 
sent an email confirming that they wanted to remortgage to a fixed rate of 1.49% for 
five years. But we havent seen anything that confirms the rate of 1.49% as the 
applications did not proceed to mortgage offer because the credit score was 
declined. 
We contacted the new lender that Mrs J and Mr R wanted to remortgage to in order 
to get clarification on the rate of 1.49%. Mrs J and Mr R have a number of properties 
so the rates available to them will differ. The lender sent us information and 
confirmed that the rate of 1.49% would not have been available for Mrs J and Mr R 
due to the large number of properties held within their portfolio  and the rate of 
1.49% would only have been available if the number of properties held by Mrs J and 
Mr R were ten or fewer. 
The lender sent me evidence of the remortgage rates that would have been available 
at that time for the number of properties that Mrs J and Mr R held, and I can see that 
the rate that would have been available was 3.34% which had a product fee of £995. 
I know that Mrs J and Mr R will not agree with this as their broker told them the rate 
of 1.49% was available, but Ive looked at the rates that were available in December 2021 and can confirm that it doesnt look like this rate would have been available to 
them because of the number of properties in their portfolio.
This rate is higher than the rate that Mrs J and Mr R were on with their existing lender 
(2.62%), but they only had just over a year left until this fixed rate expired in April 
2023. Interest rates had already started to increase in 2022 so I think on balance, if 
Mrs J and Mr R were able to secure another interest rate for five years before rates 
started to increase further, I think its more likely than not that they would have paid 
the ERC to leave their existing deal earlier, in order to secure a better interest rate 
before they continued to increase. And bearing in mind the term they wanted to fix it 
for was for five years, its plausible that they would have wanted additional security 
for longer as their rate was ending in April 2023. So I think they would have paid the 
ERC and potentially taken a loss in that first year on the interest rate in order to gain 
in the remaining years. 
Had Barclays of not made the errors on Mrs J and Mr Rs credit file, its more likely 
than not that these applications would have been approved. Mrs J and Mr R never 
had an issue with their credit files from what I can see, and they were never behind 
on any of their payments  if anything, they always made overpayments on their 
mortgages. And had the applications of been approved, Mrs J and Mr R would have 
switched lender once they fell into the 1% band of the ERC that would have been 
payable on or before 30 April 2023. So there is no reason why Mrs J and Mr R 
wouldnt have proceeded with their applications and arranged for those mortgages to 
complete from 1 May 2022 so that they got charged the 1% ERC. The mortgage offer 
was also valid for six months so that wouldnt have been an issue either. 
Ive also seen evidence that Mr R got refused two credit card applications and a 
charge that he incurred when he was abroad for £8 which is as of a result of being 
refused the credit card that offered free fees abroad.
For completeness, I can see that Barclays have explained that the telephone 
numbers that were on their letters were correct however due to the volume of calls, 
their phone lines were diverted to another department which couldnt help Mr R. This 
isnt unusual so I cant say that Barclays did anything wrong. But they should have 
called Mr R back when he asked them to  which Barclays have acknowledged.
This has had a significant impact on Mrs J and Mr R. As Ive already explained, Mr R 
is very vulnerable, and this has caused him a significant amount of worry and upset 
and has exacerbated his medical conditions and I think that Barclays need to 
recognise just how much this has affected him.
Putting things right
I do agree that Barclays will need to calculate the difference in the mortgage interest 
rate that Mrs J and Mr R could have secured  3.34% against the rate that they were 
paying and will be paying over the next few years. 
Our investigator recommended that Barclays calculate the payments on the rate of 
1.49% against Mrs J and Mr Rs existing fixed rate mortgage (which expired 30 April 
2023) for the next five years  as this is how long the fixed rate would have been for. 
But as Ive said, the rate of 1.49% wasnt one that was available  so I think the 
comparison needs to be against the rate of 3.34%.
So I think based on what I said above, Mrs J and Mr R would have completed on 
their remortgage from 1 May 2022 so Barclays will need to calculate the difference in 
what Mrs J and Mr R were paying  2.62% - against the rate of 3.34% from May 
2022 until 30 April 2023. This will end up being a loss that needs to be deducted from 
the total amount that Barclays refund Mrs J and Mr R due to the fact that they would 
have ended up paying more on their rate until April 2023. Mrs J and Mr Rs rate has since reverted to the standard variable rate which was 
7.99% in May 2023 and has increased to 8.49% in June 2023. Mrs J and Mr R have 
confirmed they are still on the SVR and havent looked at remortgaging until this has 
been sorted out as they said they are still having issues with their credit file. Mrs J 
and Mr R have since provided us evidence that shows the SVR is increasing to 
9.34% from 1 August 2023.  
I am intending on directing Barclays to amend Mrs J and Mr Rs credit file within one 
month from when I send my provisional decision on the matter so that Mrs J and Mr 
R can remortgage to another lender. I am then looking to direct Barclays to pay the 
difference in the rate of 3.34% against the SVR of 9.34% for a further four months (as 
long as the credit score issues have been rectified)  to give Mrs J and Mr R a 
chance to secure a new rate elsewhere. 
If I assume that Mrs J and Mr R are going to approach the same lender as they did 
before, then Ive looked at the rates that are available in order to work out what 
Barclays need to calculate for the remainder of the five-year fixed period that Mrs J 
and Mrs R would have been on until May 2027. There is a five-year fixed rate of 
6.89% which doesnt have any fees attached to it. Or there is a rate available of 
6.59% fixed for five years with a product fee charged at 3%. Mrs J and Mr R will need 
to respond to this provisional decision letting me know which rate they would 
potentially choose. Then Barclays will need to calculate the difference in the rate of 
3.34% against one of these interest rates. Depending on what Mr R chooses, Ill have 
to consider the product fee (in the calculations) that may be charged based on the 
rate that Mr R could have obtained before, against what he may choose now. 
So to be clear, Barclays will need to calculate the difference in the rate of 3.34% 
against 7.99% SVR in May 2023 and then against 8.49% SVR from June 2023. 
Barclays will need to confirm to Mrs J and Mr R that the issues with their credit score 
have been resolved within one month of this decision being sent and then calculate 
the difference in the rate of 3.34% against the SVR rate of 8.49% for July 2023 and 
then against 9.34% from August until November 2023  which takes into account the 
time we are giving Mrs J and Mr R to remortgage. 
Then Barclays will need to calculate the difference either the rate of 6.89% or 6.59% 
until May 2027 against the rate they would have secured at 3.34%. May 2027 is 
when the original fixed rate would have expired  had Mrs J and Mr R taken out the 
mortgage in December 2021. This will need to be calculated for all three mortgages 
that Mrs J and Mr R were going to remortgage. 
If Barclays are unable to resolve the issues with the credit score within the month 
deadline for this provisional decision, then I am minded to direct them to pay the 
difference in the rate of 3.34% against the SVR rate of 9.34% until May 2027.
However, Mrs J and Mr R would have paid an ERC on their existing mortgage in 
order to come out of it. So Barclays will need to deduct the 1% ERC that Mrs J and 
Mr R would have been charged from the calculations above  for all three mortgages. 
They should also deduct the loss Mrs J and Mr R would have incurred in the period 
from 1 May 2022 until 30 April 2023, again for all three mortgages. We have provided 
the mortgage offers as evidence.
I wont be recommending that 8% simple interest is added to this calculation. 
Because the remaining loss is to take place in the future, so I dont think its fair to 
add the 8% to this amount.
They should also pay Mrs J and Mr R £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience that 
has been caused to them  for the reasons already given above. And an additional 
£300 for the declined credit card applications which included the additional fee that Mr R got charged when he was abroad  and the impact this had on them. So 
Barclays should pay £1,300 to Mrs J and Mr R in total. 
Developments
Mr R responded to the provisional decision and had some concerns regarding the interest 
rates that were contained within it. He said that the SVR rates I had quoted were incorrect 
and he has provided evidence to confirm this.  He said the SVR in May 2023 was 8.59% and 
not 7.99% and the SVR rate in June was 8.84% and not 8.45%. Mr R also said the rate in 
August 2023 was 9.59% and not 9.34%.
Mr R also seemed to misunderstand what I had directed Barclays to do. He was under the 
impression that he would be on a rate of 3.34% for one year and then he would move onto a 
rate of 6.89% for the remainder of the term which he thought was unfair. 
Mr R said that he is still on the SVR and he has been unable to switch rates because 
Barclays are still incorrectly reporting adverse data on his credit file  and he has provided 
further evidence to support this. He said that we should consider him taking out a fixed rate 
with Barclays and get them to calculate the rate against that interest rate, rather than 6.89%. 
And he has also said that as he is still on the SVR and Barclays are still affecting his credit 
score negatively, that they should compare the rates against the SVR as that is what he is 
currently on. 
Mr R also said that he had a previous complaint where a final decision was issued, and we 
directed Barclays to provide him with a direct contact - which he said has now disappeared. 
He doesnt feel we are punishing Barclays enough for the errors that they have made. 
Barclays responded to the provisional decision and accepted what I had said. They did 
however say that they wanted Mr R to provide the three mortgage statements they have 
been asking for to calculate the settlement. 
Barclays confirmed that Mr Rs credit file has been amended with the exception of two of the 
mortgage accounts which were omitted, but they have since submitted these to be 
amended. They said they will provide us with confirmation once the cleanse has been 
completed. 
Barclays said Mr R will need to select a new deal no later than November 2023 to enable 
them to calculate the difference from November 2023 until May 2027. They said that if Mr R 
chooses to stay on the SVR then they will not provide a refund. 
They also said that Mr R will need to modify his standing order to the 1st or 2nd of the month 
to prevent this from happening in the future. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has provided a lot of information since the provisional decision has been issued. I have 
taken into account everything he has said as before but I may not comment on everything. I 
want to assure him that I have thought about the points he has made very carefully. 
Our investigator has spoken to Mr R to explain the rationale around the rate of 6.89% (which 
is the rate that he would have chosen as he didnt want to pay any further product fees) and 
that we are effectively asking Barclays to calculate the interest rate on 3.34% for five years 
against a rate of 6.89%. 
As our investigator has explained, we are not assuming that Mr R will be on a rate of 6.89%. 
What I am asking Barclays to calculate is based on Mr R being on a rate of 3.34% for five 
years from May 2022 until May 2027. But Barclays need to calculate this rate against 
another rate which is where the SVR and the 6.89% come into it. They will provide this as a refund to Mr R after taking into account the ERC that Mr R would have paid after exiting his 
previous fixed rate earlier. The rate of 3.34% has a product fee of £995 which will need to 
also be deducted from the calculations. The rate of 6.89% that Barclays are to calculate 
against doesnt have a product fee so no other deductions should take place. 
I note that Mr R has since provided letters which confirm the SVR rates and I can confirm 
that the calculations that I ask Barclays to make, will be on the correct SVR interest rates. So 
these will be 8.59% for May 2023, 8.84% for June 2023 and 9.59% for August 2023.
I appreciate that Mr R is still on the SVR as he hasnt been able to switch to another rate 
because of the credit score issues, but Barclays have confirmed that this will be rectified. 
They have unfortunately omitted two of the mortgage accounts which is where the error is 
still happening, but they have since sent these files to be cleansed and Barclays should send 
confirmation that these have been rectified to allow Mr R to obtain a new rate. Its not clear 
why Barclays omitted these two mortgage accounts as we have explained numerous times 
that Mr R is still being impacted by these errors, so they must ensure that these are rectified 
to enable Mr R to secure a new rate. 
It wouldnt be fair of me to ask Barclays to calculate the 3.34% against the SVR for the next 
five years as its highly unlikely that Mr R would remain on the SVR. And he has also said 
that he wants to secure a new fixed rate which backs this up. Mr R is being put back in the 
position he would have been in, had Barclays of not made the errors they made to begin 
with. Barclays have also confirmed that they have sent the credit files for cleansing so these 
should all be rectified too.
If Mr R wants to take out a new rate with Barclays, then he is free to do so. Barclays will give 
him a refund assuming he had taken out a rate of 3.34% from May 2022  which is what he 
would have done had the issues not occurred. Mr R has been unable to come off the SVR 
because of the credit score issues but once Barclays have rectified this  he will be able to. 
So its up to him what he does after this point. He will be able to secure another fixed rate 
with either Barclays or contact a broker to see what deals are available to him. He would 
have already been compensated for the losses that have occurred and estimated future 
losses that will occur up until May 2027. 
Barclays have said that Mr R needs to amend the dates of his standing order to stop this 
issue happening again, and its advisable that Mr R does so that the same problems dont 
occur again. Its also relevant to note here that Mr R has mentioned a previous final decision 
where it was directed that Barclays provide him with a direct contact. Its not for me to 
comment on that final decision but Barclays should ensure that if this is what was directed, 
that they adhere to this in order to help Mr R. 
I appreciate that Mr R feels we are not punishing Barclays and he feels we are making 
things easier for them, but when making an award for compensation and what needs to be 
made to put things right, I must decide whats fair and reasonable to both sides involved 
giving careful consideration to all the circumstances of this case. I think its also important to 
explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to compensate consumers  not punish 
organisations. 
Barclays have asked for the three mortgage statements for the three accounts that need the 
calculations carried out on. Our investigator can obtain these from Mr R and send them 
through to Barclays however, these should not be needed in order to calculate what was 
proposed in my provisional decision. But if Barclays need these to confirm the three 
mortgage accounts, then we will ensure that these are sent to them.
Mr R doesnt want Barclays to benefit from the issues they have caused. He said hes since 
overpaid more on his mortgage so his mortgage balance is lower than it would have been 
previously. The calculations that Barclays will make will be on the balances that Mr R had on 
his mortgage at the time in order to put him back in the position he would have been in. Barclays have said that they expect Mr R to obtain a new rate by November 2023 so that 
they can calculate the redress. And theyve said that if Mr R doesnt take out a new rate by 
November 2023  they wont provide one. Its not up to Barclays to decide this. I have 
already explained what needs to happen in my provisional decision and why I have asked 
Barclays to calculate the differences in the interest rates. If Mr R chooses not to take out 
another rate (which I have already said that I think this is unlikely), then that is ultimately up 
to him. He would have been able to obtain a lower interest rate of 3.34% in May 2022 and 
this is what I have directed Barclays to put right for him. Whether he chooses another rate or 
not is irrelevant. This is the only way we can put things right for Mr R without knowing 
specifically which lender he will go to and what interest rate he will end up taking out  while 
also taking into account rates have since increased. 
I think its also fair to remind Barclays again that Mr R is incredibly vulnerable, and they have 
to ensure that his credit file is cleansed so that it doesnt affect him any further. And Mr R will 
need to make the amendments to his standing order to help the situation too. Once this has 
been done, Mr R will be able to move forward and decide what he wants to do in terms of 
securing a new interest rate. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
Calculate the mortgage payment made in May 2023 on a rate of 8.59% against the 
3.34% - then calculate 8.84% against the rate of 3.34% for June and July 2023 and 
then against the rate of 9.59% from August until November 2023.
Calculate the difference in the rate of 3.34% against 6.89% for the remainder of the 
term from December 2023 until May 2027 which is when the five-year fixed rate 
would have expired. Barclays will need to deduct the 1% ERC that Mrs J and Mr R 
would have paid on all three mortgages from this calculation. Theyll also need to 
take into account the difference in the rate for the first year (2.62% against 3.34% 
from 1 May 2022 until 30 April 2023 and deduct this as well. Barclays should also 
deduct the £995 product fee that Mr R would have paid for the 3.34% rate.  Barclays 
will need to pay this difference to Mrs J and Mr R. 
Pay Mrs J and Mr R a total of £1,300 for the distress and inconvenience they have 
been caused which includes the declined credit card applications. 
Remove any further adverse credit from Mrs J and Mr Rs credit file and confirm to 
our service and to Mr R that this has been done
Barclays should help Mr R with the standing order amendment if he is unable to do 
this  to prevent this issue from happening again.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman