DRN-2332876
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that Santander UK Plc has refused to reimburse her after she was the 
victim of a scam. She thinks Santander had the opportunity to stop the scam from happening 
in the first place but it failed to heed the warning signs. 
Santander says that it completed the relevant security checks and ultimately, Ms R 
authorised the payments so it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to 
recoup the money from the payee bank. 
Background
what Ms R says happened
In June 2019 Ms R, who was in her late 70s at the time, noticed that there was a builder 
working on her neighbours house and asked them what work they had completed. During 
this discussion, Ms R says that the builder informed her that her chimneys were too high and 
without invitation, placed his ladder in her garden and proceeded to climb over her wall and 
then onto the roof. The builder then rocked the chimneys back and forth and said that if she 
didnt lower them, it could be fatal for her. Ms R didnt doubt what shed been told and asked 
the builder that if he was completing the required work, could he also replace a gutter for 
her. The builder agreed and said it would cost around £6,000 for all the work to be 
completed. 
The builder then climbed further on to the roof and began lifting the tiles; he told her they all 
needed cementing and that it would be more cost effective for the whole roof to be replaced 
at a cost of around £31,000. Ms R agreed  she says that she found him convincing and 
also considered that as her neighbour had had some work completed, these were likely to 
be reputable builders. 
The following day, the builder attended Ms Rs home and asked for £2,500 in cash. Ms R 
said that she couldnt drive so he offered to take her to the bank to withdraw the money. Ms 
R rang her bank ahead of the visit (not Santander) and was told by the representative that 
she would be asked several questions when she went to the branch about the purpose of 
the money. Ms R says that on the way to the bank, the builder asked a lot of personal 
questions. Ms R told him that her husband had sadly passed away the previous year and 
she didnt have any children. Ms R says that the builder put his arm around her, kissed her 
on her cheek and said that he was going to make her happy and acknowledged that shed 
been through a very tough time. 
The builder started some work on the roof and four days later, he asked for £20,000 with 
£10,000 paid to himself and £10,000 to be paid to another builder that worked with him. Ms 
R queried why it was two payments and not one and was told that this is how they 
processed payments at their business. The builder drove Ms R to the Santander branch and 
waited across the road. Ms R held only one account with Santander which was a savings 
account. Ms R asked at the counter for two cheques for £10,000 each and handed the 
cashier a piece of paper with the two names written down, asking her to make the cheques 
payable to them. She also handed over her passport to verify her identity. Ms R placed her 
card into the chip and PIN reader and when handed the cheques, she was asked to remove 
it. Ms R says that she wasnt asked any questions about what the money was for or why she 
was withdrawing such a large amount in this way. Ms R immediately handed the cheques to 
the builder. 
Shortly after, Ms R was visited at home by two police officers. Ms R now knows that it was 
her neighbours whod asked them to visit her as they were concerned that she was being 
taken advantage of by the builder and had seen them targeting the homes of elderly 
residents attempting to solicit work. Ms R told the police about the work she was having 
done and the price shed been quoted for it; the police commented that it seemed very high. 
The police then contacted Trading Standards who attended the following day to inspect Ms 
Rs property. 
The Trading Standards representative told Ms R that shed paid too much for the work 
quoted for and the quality of the work was not to industry standards. Moreover, the builder 
had damaged Ms Rs property necessitating remedial work to make her home safe again as 
theyd broken through two ceilings. At the time of the visit, the builder was on site. The 
representative approached him and Ms R says that there was a heated argument with the 
builder becoming aggressive. A few days later, the builder telephoned Ms R and demanded 
a further £11,000 but Ms R refused to pay this as the Trading Standards representative had 
advised her not to pay the builder any further money. The builder didnt return to complete 
the work.
Ms R says she then had to instruct new builders - whom Trading Standards had 
recommended - to complete the remedial work at her property and this cost her £6,120. 
Ms R says that she and the Trading Standards representative went into the branch to speak 
to the branch manager about what had happened. She says the branch manager told them 
hed spoken to the cashier whod said Ms R claimed the payments were a gift. Ms R told the 
branch manager this wasnt true and requested a meeting with the cashier to discuss this. 
However, the branch manager declined saying it wasnt in line with their process. 
Ms R says that if the Santander representative had asked more questions at the time about 
why she was withdrawing £20,000 from her account, shed have disclosed that she was 
having building work undertaken and the fact that the money was being paid in this way to 
the builders ought to have alerted Santander that she was a potential victim of a scam. Ms R 
says she otherwise wouldnt have lost her money and so is seeking a refund of £20,000 from 
it.
what Santander says happened
Santander says that its spoken to its advisor who cannot recall the interaction with Ms R. 
Santander says that its representative would have engaged in a discussion about potential 
scams as this is their policy and all their staff engage in training about identifying potential 
scams. It says that there is no reason for its employees not to have delivered the scam 
warning in this case. Santander says it has CCTV footage which shows that Ms R was 
standing at the counter for around six minutes and therefore, the advisor would have 
discussed scams with her during this time. 
Santander has provided us with its e-slip of the transaction which shows that the box Scam 
Warning had been ticked. It says that this shows a discussion about potential scams had 
taken place. There is also a section titled Reason for Payment next to which is written Gift. 
Santander says that this shows a discussion about the purpose of the payment had taken 
place as theres no reason why the representative would otherwise have noted it as a Gift.Santander has also raised a number of further representations which Ill address, including: 
this isnt a scam complaint. Rather, Ms R has been the unfortunate victim of a rogue 
trader who has completed work to an inferior standard and this is therefore a civil 
matter;
payments to two individuals is more in keeping with gifts rather than paying for 
building work. Santander would expect the cheque to be paid to a company not 
individuals if it was for building work;
why Ms Rs testimony has been believed over the banks contemporaneous evidence 
indicating that a scam discussion took place; 
the expert chartered builder and chartered building engineers opinion in their report, 
was completed without a physical inspection of the property;
Had Ms R seemed nervous or worried in any way, the representative would have 
taken her aside for a chat but Ms R didnt present in this way;
the recent court judgment in Philipp v Barclays corroborates its position that a bank 
cannot reasonably be expected to be a detective or sleuth in respect of each and 
every payment instruction that it processes with the customers express authority nor 
should it be held liable for losses when a customer is dishonest with us when they 
instruct a payment in accordance with the account terms and payment instrument. 
Once alerted to the scam in July 2019, Santander attempted to recover the funds but the 
receiving bank confirmed that no funds remained. 
An investigator here upheld Ms Rs complaint. She felt that the warning signs were there and 
Santander should have invoked the Banking Protocol. She said that had it done so, it would 
have stopped Ms R from making the payments to the builder and unveiled the scam. As 
Santander disagreed with the opinion, the case has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Upon reading all the available evidence and arguments, I have concluded that the fair and 
reasonable outcome would be to uphold this complaint  and Ill explain why. 
I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms R 
when she withdrew £20,000 in branch, or whether it should have done more than it did  and 
the impact of this. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Ms R was the victim of a 
sophisticated rogue trader scam. She used her security credentials to obtain the cheques 
which were paid to the builder. So, although she did not intend for her money to be given to 
a builder that was taking advantage of her, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, 
and the terms and conditions of her account, Ms R is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
For branch transactions like this, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
The Banking Protocol
The Banking Protocol is a multi-agency initiative between Trading Standards, banking 
institutions and law enforcement which aims to prevent and detect fraudulent activity on 
customers bank accounts. It has been fully in force since March 2018 and is designed to 
protect members of the community from becoming victims of fraud, in particular those who 
are elderly or vulnerable, who are often targeted by fraudsters.
Branch staff can call local police forces if they have concerns that a customer has been 
targeted by criminals. They should ask questions if they think a transaction is out of 
character. For example, they might ask what the money is going to be used for, or if theyve 
been approached by someone claiming to be the police or their banks fraud department. 
Its reiterated in an online information video by Forth Valley Police Division (one of the 
founders of the Banking Protocol initiative) that the victims are often elderly. Santanders 
own website links to an article on UK Finances website where it is stated: Fraudsters will 
often try to scam potential victims by persuading them to withdraw large sums of cash from 
their local bank branch and hand it over to them. This is because they know that once they 
have the cash it can be difficult to trace and return it. These scams can involve anything from 
rogue builders offering to do bogus work on your drivewaythey tend to target the most 
vulnerable in our society, including elderly victims who are particularly at risk.
Did Santander act fairly and reasonably in Ms Rs case?
Ms R was in her late 70s at the time the scam took place and I consider this to be relevant 
because the Banking Protocol and the BBA report on customers in vulnerable 
circumstances, acknowledge that elderly customers are more likely to be targeted by 
scammers. Ms R was also bereaved, her late husband of nearly 54 years having passed 
only the year prior, leaving her alone as she had no children. Im satisfied that Ms R was 
vulnerable because of her circumstances at the time the withdrawals were made. Ive seen 
records of Ms Rs transactions on her account for 2019 and prior to the scam taking place, 
shed made no other withdrawals or credits into the account that year. So Im satisfied that Ms Rs request to make two withdrawals of £10,000 each was clearly out of character and 
unusual for her.
I consider that as a matter of good practice Santander should have been on the look-out for 
unusual and out of character transactions and it ought to have probed Ms R more about the 
reasons for these withdrawals to two different people. Santander maintains that the e-slip 
confirms a scam discussion took place and the transaction was noted as a Gift. I asked for a 
copy of Santanders scam checklist which details the sorts of questions that should be asked 
based on what the consumer says the withdrawal is for. The question for me is not whether 
Santander asked Ms R why she was withdrawing the money, rather, its whether it did 
enough in all the circumstances. 
Santander says that Ms R didnt present as nervous or worried and if she had, this would 
have prompted it to ask more questions. But at that stage, Ms R wasnt feeling this way 
because she didnt realise that she was the victim of a scam  and I dont consider that this 
absolves Santander from asking further questions. 
Even if I accept that Ms R said that she was gifting £20,000 to two people, Id have expected 
further questioning to take place around whom the gifts were for and why  with appropriate 
and detailed notes to be recorded on the system  to satisfy the representative that Ms R 
wasnt being coerced into making these payments. Santander says that a payment to two 
individuals is more in keeping with gifts rather than paying for building work. Be that as it 
may, beyond the word Gift, there is no further record of what was discussed and so, Im 
minded to conclude that Santander didnt do enough to ensure that Ms R wasnt the victim of 
a scam or coercion. 
It seems to me that these would have been sensible and relevant questions to ask in the
circumstances in order to understand more about the nature of the payment. And I think if
Ms R hadnt been able to answer them convincingly, its likely this would have increased the
cashiers concern and suspicion.
Overall, I think Santander should fairly and reasonably have asked more questions before
completing the transaction. And if they had its more likely than not that this would have led
to the payment being stopped (whether by the cashier or the Police).
Its also possible that a more detailed and bespoke conversation around the types of scams
that exist might have put some doubt in Ms Rs mind or helped the cashier to form a more 
informed view about what was likely to be happening.
Ms R wasnt given a cover story by the builder and so I consider it more likely than not, that 
had Santander asked more searching questions, Ms R would have revealed details such as 
that she was having building work undertaken, her builder had requested two cheques 
payable to him and his colleague, how his instruction came about and that he had driven her 
to the bank and was waiting outside for her. All of these details ought to have alerted 
Santander to invoke the Banking Protocol not least because as cited above, rogue builders 
offering to do unnecessary work is a classic warning sign Id expect Santanders staff to be 
aware of. 
Ms R was vulnerable at the time due to her age and bereavement. This was a well-known 
scam. If Santanders staff had probed a bit more - as mentioned above - it seems likely that 
Ms R would have been alerted to being the potential victim of a scam and the cheque 
payments could have been stopped. In other words, but for Santanders failure to probe in 
an appropriate and sensitive way, the scam would probably not have succeeded. 
Once Ms R had been alerted by the police and Trading Standards representative that she was being overcharged and was likely the victim of a scam, Ms R refused to pay any further 
money to the builder despite his demands. This reiterates my feeling that if the staff had 
carried out further or better questioning in line with a banks duty of care, it seems probable 
that Ms R would have become credulous about the scam in time and stopped the payment in 
its tracks. The fraud would have failed; and Ms R would not have lost £20,000.
Santander says that this isnt a scam complaint but a civil matter. I disagree and would point 
to Santanders own website which links to the article citing rogue builders as a typical 
scam. It says that we have taken Ms Rs testimony over its own evidence  again, I would 
disagree and for the reasons set out, consider that there were sufficient prompts and 
opportunities for it to have asked more searching questions but it failed to do so resulting in 
detriment to Ms R.
Santander has cited the recent court judgement in Philipp v Barclays to make the point that it 
cannot be expected to query every payment instruction which it processes. I am aware of the 
recent Philipps v Barclays judgment where the judge took a different view about the 
Quincecare duty. Im not suggesting the Quincecare duty applies to this case. And 
notwithstanding what the judge said, we have a duty to resolve complaints based on what 
we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, taking into account not 
just the law, but also regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And in the circumstances of this 
particular case, Im persuaded that Santander didnt follow the Banking Protocol where there 
were clear and known signs of a potential scam. As an original signatory to the Banking 
Protocol, Id expect it to be aware of this.
Santander has also said that its unhappy about the expert report commissioned by Trading 
Standards as to the quality of the work carried out by the builder and the need for it. Ive read 
the report and can see that it was completed by an expert chartered builder and chartered 
building engineer. The report was commissioned by Trading Standards as part of criminal 
proceedings it is taking against the builder and contains a statement of truth signed by the 
expert acknowledging that his report will be used as evidence. The experts background 
includes preparing similar reports on building defect and maintenance for over 40 local 
authority organisations and 12 Police forces amongst other credentials. Santander says its 
unhappy with the findings of the report regarding the condition before and after the builder 
had attended Ms Rs property. I am not going to detail how the expert came to his 
conclusions here save as to say that I am satisfied he had the requisite credentials to 
undertake the assessment of the property and in the absence of any evidence to the 
contrary, Im minded to accept his analysis of the damage that was done and the remedial 
work required to restore Ms Rs home. The work was subsequently completed and cost 
£6,120 which I consider ought to be refunded to Ms R by Santander. 
Trading Standards has also confirmed its position following its investigation and has 
concluded that Ms R didnt have time to make an informed choice; she was pressured into 
entering into a contract; she wasnt given the correct cancellation rights and there was no 
waiver signed by her allowing for the work to begin before the 14 day cooling off period. 
Additional works were also added to the original contract and the breakdown of these costs 
and an updated agreement, werent provided to her. I consider these to be warning signs of 
a rogue trader scam which had Santander asked more questions around when Ms R came 
in to branch, could have meant that the scam was foiled sooner.
I have also considered whether Ms R should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising the payment, 
she was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what she was doing or that she 
could possibly be the victim of a scam. I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence 
on this occasion, she was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a callous fraudster. The bank was the professional in financial matters; Ms R was a vulnerable layperson. 
Putting things right
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander ought fairly and reasonably to have asked further 
questions and have contacted the Police. If it had done, Im satisfied that Ms R would not 
have lost the £20,000 she did as well as having to pay further costs for the remedial work 
because of the damage caused by the builder. And so, Santander should compensate Ms R 
for this together with interest for being deprived of the money she lost.
I also think it is appropriate to make a modest award of £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience Ms R has suffered. In reaching that conclusion I am mindful that her loss was 
ultimately caused by the callous act of a rogue builder but Santander could have prevented 
the payment and avoided the loss she suffered had it followed the process set out in the 
Banking Protocol, as its expected to do especially as Ms Rs circumstances and the nature 
of the scam bore the hallmarks of a familiar scam targeted at the elderly. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about Santander UK plc  and I therefore require the bank to:
Pay Ms R £20,000 within 28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance of my 
final decision; plus
Pay interest on that sum at the savings account rate from the date of loss to the date 
of refund1. 
Pay Ms R £6,120 for the remedial work she had to have carried out on her property;
Pay Ms R £250 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Reena Anand
Ombudsman
1 If Santander is legally required to deduct tax from the interest should send Ms R a tax deduction 
certificate so she can claim it back from HMRC is appropriate.