DRN-2175052
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain about how QIC Europe Ltd handled and settled a claim they made 
under their home insurance policy for storm damage. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr S jointly hold a household insurance policy, which is provided by QIC. This 
policy was incepted on 9 January 2019 and a copy of the policy terms and schedule were 
made available to Mrs and Mr S at around that time. 
Mrs and Mr S say, on 9 February 2020, stormy weather conditions caused the ridge tile on 
their roof to dislodge. This tile damaged other roof tiles below it as it slipped. 
On 13 February 2020 Mrs and Mr S contacted QIC in order to make a claim under their 
policy for storm damage. QIC informed them that the policy excess applicable to storm 
damage claims was £100 and it appointed a surveyor to attend their property in order to 
determine the cause of damage to their roof. 
On 19 February 2020 QICs surveyor inspected Mrs and Mr S roof and told QIC it thought 
the damage to the ridge tile had been caused by age-related wear and tear. It said an 
inspection of the ridge pointing showed the mortar bond had broken down, which had led to 
the ridge tile falling.
QIC repudiated Mrs and Mr S claim for damage to their ridge tile based on the surveyors 
opinion. It explained that gradual damage was excluded by their policy. But it agreed to 
cover damage caused by the ridge tile slipping as this was covered under the accidental 
damage part of their buildings insurance. QIC offered Mrs and Mr S a cash settlement for 
this part of their claim, which they accepted. And it deducted an excess of £250 from the 
settlement amount, which it said was the relevant excess applicable under the accidental 
damage part of their policy.
Mrs and Mr S werent happy with how QIC proposed to resolve their claim. They felt, as 
thered been strong winds at around the time the damage occurred, a storm had caused the 
damage to their roof. They said the home buyers survey theyd obtained when they recently 
purchased their house hadnt identified any immediate concerns with their roof. They also 
said the surveyor QIC had appointed to inspect their roof had told them it had been 
damaged due to a storm. So, they complained that QIC wouldnt meet their claim. 
QIC investigated Mrs and Mr S concerns. But it maintained its stance that the ridge tile 
dislodging hadnt been caused by a one-off storm event as was required by their policy. And 
it said the excess it had applied to their accidental damage settlement was correct. It 
therefore didnt uphold Mrs and Mr S complaint about how it had settled their claim.  
Being dissatisfied with how QIC had dealt with their complaint Mrs and Mr S referred it to our 
service. Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt recommend upholding 
this complaint. Although they were satisfied thered been a storm on the date Mrs and Mr S 
roof was damaged, they werent persuaded the storm had caused the damage. And they 
thought the damage was, most likely, caused by age related wear and tear as had been 
suggested by QICs surveyor. Overall, our investigator thought QIC had dealt with Mrs and 
Mr S claim fairly. But they disagreed and asked for their complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mrs and Mr S and QIC, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I 
think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
My role is to assess whether I think QIC made a mistake, or treated Mrs and Mr S unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything 
they and QIC have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mrs and Mr S 
will be disappointed by this outcome. But I hope they can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mrs and Mr S roof. However, theres 
disagreement between them, QIC and its appointed agent about the cause of the damage 
and the correct outcome of this claim. 
Mrs and Mr S would like QIC to cover the damage to their roof; they believe it was caused by 
adverse weather. Their policy with QIC provides cover for damage caused by a range of 
perils that might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. 
But, for a claim to be successful, Mrs and Mr S need to show that the damage theyre 
claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in their policy.
As explained by our investigator, there are three conditions that need to be met before this 
service would say a claim for storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Ive re-assessed Mrs and Mr S complaint and all the evidence with these three questions in 
mind. All three questions must be answered affirmatively for this service to be able to 
recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mrs and Mr S policy clearly outlines that it 
will cover loss or damage caused by storm winds of Force 10 or above (as defined under 
the internationally recognised Beaufort Scale). This equates to winds speeds of at least 55 
mph. So, Ive kept this storm definition in mind when deciding whether there were storm 
conditions on or around the date of Mrs and Mr S claim.
Ive checked the weather reports relevant to Mrs and Mr S locality for storm conditions on 
around the date their roof was damaged. These show that, on 9 February 2020, the highest 
wind speeds recorded were 63 mph. This was the date Mrs and Mr S say their roof was 
damaged by a storm.Based on the reported weather Im satisfied the wind speeds recorded on 9 February 2020 
meet QICs definition of a storm. And this means Im able to answer question one 
affirmatively.
Turning to question two, Ive thought about whether the damage claimed is consistent with 
damage a storm typically causes. In this case the ridge tile was dislodged and fell. Like our 
investigator, Im satisfied this type of damage is something that could be expected following 
a storm. So, Im able to answer this question affirmatively.
Ill turn now to the third question I must address. QICs surveyors opinion is that storm 
conditions werent the main cause of the ridge tile dislodging and falling. QICs surveyor 
thinks this occurred due to the ridge pointing mortar bond breaking down gradually over a 
period of time.
Mrs and Mr S said QICs surveyor agreed that their ridge tile had fallen due to a storm. But I 
havent seen any evidence to corroborate that. And QICs surveyors report comprehensively 
explains why it doesnt believe Mrs and Mr S have a valid storm claim.
Mrs and Mr S told our service the Homebuyers survey that was undertaken when they 
purchased their house in 2018 didnt identify any immediate concerns with the roof. 
However, while this may be correct, Im not persuaded that renders QICs surveyors opinion 
unreliable. I say this a Homebuyers survey is a cursory examination that only highlights 
current faults at the time the survey is undertaken.
The photographs Ive seen of Mrs and Mr S roof show the ridge tiles are in a very poor 
condition. Theres substantial evidence of weathering and deterioration. QICs surveyor 
observed some vertical separation of the verge tiles, which is due to poor strapping between 
the gable and roof purlins rather than being related to weather events. Im satisfied that what 
QICs surveyor observed is supported by the photographs that had been provided to our 
service. 
Based on the photographs Ive seen, I think the ridge tile, most likely, fell due to mortar 
deterioration. This is something that happens gradually. I say this because correctly 
maintained mortar should be weather resistant and unaffected by storm related weather  
although it will deteriorate over time.
I also think its most likely that the adverse weather that Mrs and Mr S experienced on 9 
February 2020 highlighted the pre-existing condition of their roof and caused it to worsen 
afterwards.  
In the overall circumstances of Mrs and Mr S claim Im persuaded that if the mortar hadnt 
broken down its unlikely the ridge tile would have fallen. I therefore dont think QIC made an 
error in attributing the cause of the ridge tile dislodging and falling to a gradual cause. 
QICs policy booklet makes it clear that loss or damage that happens gradually is excluded 
under Mrs and Mr S insurance policy. This is in common with most home insurance policies 
because insurance is intended to cover the unforeseen. And something wearing out or 
requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen. 
As wear and tear and gradually occurring damage isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of Mrs and Mr S insurance policy I dont think QICs decision to decline their 
storm claim was unreasonable. It follows that I dont think it would be fair to require it to pay 
this claim.Finally, Mrs and Mr S have complained about the excess thats been deducted from the 
settlement figure QIC paid them to cover the accidental damage caused by the fallen ridge 
tile. They dispute the applicable policy excess is £250 and told our service QIC informed 
them their excess would be £100.
I can see that when QIC informed Mrs and Mr S their excess was £100 this was when they 
were reporting potential storm damage to their roof. Significantly, this was prior to QICs 
surveyor determining whether they were able to bring a successful storm claim. So, the 
information they were given at the outset about the excess that applies to storm damage 
claims was correct.
Once QIC repudiated Mrs and Mr S storm damage claim I can see it correctly identified they 
were able to claim for accidental damage to their roof as damage had been caused by the 
fallen ridge tile. Having carefully considered the excess that applies to the accidental 
damage section of Mrs and Mr S policy, I can see it refers in clear, intelligible language to 
an excess of £250. So, m satisfied the correct excess has been applied here. 
I know Mrs and Mr S will be disappointed with this decision. I know they feels very strongly 
about the issues raised in this complaint. And I appreciate the reasons why they brought this 
complaint to our service. But for the reasons outlined Im satisfied QIC has acted fairly and 
reasonably. So, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman