DRN-3031281
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold Mr S PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
S s circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that, although Halifax 
says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made an offer 
as if it had.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mr Ss. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Halifax didnt need to tell Mr and 
Mrs S about the commission it received - But in any event Halifax has offered to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised 
my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
There is limited information available from the time Mr S took out the PPI, but this isnt 
unusual considering businesses arent required to keep this type of information 
indefinitely. From the information that is available, I dont have enough to say Halifax 
didnt present the policy as optional to Mr S, or that he didnt choose to take it.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
And the evidence about Mr Ss circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr S was eligible for the cover 
and had limited means to fall back on, so he had a need for cover. 
We have asked for more information about Mr Ss job. But form the information we have, 
there was nothing about Mr Ss employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect his ability to claim. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr S as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr S would have declined the 
cover had Halifax done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr Ss circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think he would have still 
thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr S would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ss representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ss particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more 
it needs to do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary they have said Mr and Mrs S should get back all the money they paid for the 
policy because: Halifax failed to tell Mr and Mrs S about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because 
they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr S wouldnt have taken 
out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they should receive a 
refund of all the premiums they paid.
But in this case, Halifax has told us that the commission for Mr Ss PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr and Mrs Ss case was 
less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Halifax needed to tell Mr and Mrs S about the commission. So it follows that I 
dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Halifax treated Mr 
and Mrs S unfairly. 
This means Halifax doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs S back any of the commission they paid 
for the PPI. 
But in any event Halifax has offered to give back to Mr and Mrs S some of the cost of the 
PPI to compensate Mr and Mrs S as if it had treated them unfairly. So I dont think it needs to 
do anything more.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMy final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt need to disclose 
the commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs S 
paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs S. Halifax should now make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs S if it hasnt 
done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman