The complaint
Mr L says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him. Mr L says his financial situation wasnt 
sufficiently checked to make sure he could make the loan repayments. He got into a cycle of 
debt with this type of lending and borrowed elsewhere to cover his monthly living expenses.  
What happened
This complaint is about four short-term loans MYJAR provided to Mr L between March and 
December 2016. Mr Ls borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 25/03/2016 31/03/2016 1 £100.00 £104.80
2 13/04/2016 29/04/2016 1 £175.00 £197.40
3 30/04/2016 31/10/2016 6 £500.00 £150.10
4 23/12/2016 13/06/2017 12 £425.00   £65.86
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ls complaint and thought loan four shouldnt have been 
given as checks proportionate to the borrowing would have shown he was borrowing from 
other short-term lenders, so the lending was unsustainable for him. 
MYJAR disagreed. It said loans one to three were paid on time and loan four was repaid 
early which showed the lending was sustainable. And as Mr L didnt come back for further 
borrowing after loan four, Mr L had used its product for its intended purpose. 
Our adjudicator didnt agree and MYJAR asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
DRN-1496842MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr L didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to three shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I 
wont be making a decision about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr L had with MYJAR. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loan he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold it 
in part. Ill explain why. 
I note there was a short break in the chain of lending between loans three and four, but I 
dont think this was a sufficient enough amount of time for MYJAR to have reasonably 
concluded that Mr L had overcome whatever the financial circumstances were that caused 
him to take this type of short-term lending in the first instance. A break in the chain of lending, in effect, starts the clock ticking again on what we would consider to be 
proportionate checks a business should carry out when considering the length of the 
borrowing relationship with the consumer. But as there wasnt a break in the chain of 
lending, I agree with the adjudicator that as this was Mr Ls fourth loan in nine months it 
should have carried out checks that were proportionate to that. 
I also note Mr Ls first two loans were to be paid within one month. But when Mr L came 
back for further borrowing at loan three it was for a much larger amount and was to be 
repaid over a six-month period. Mr L then returned for loan four, which I appreciate was for a 
slightly lower amount, but the term was double that of loan three  12 months which could 
have been a suggestion that Mr L was struggling, and his borrowing was potentially 
becoming unsustainable. 
And if MYJAR had carried out proportionate checks I think it would have seen that Mr L was 
borrowing from other short-term lenders at the same time he was borrowing from MYJAR. 
This would have made clear that the borrowing was unsustainably for him. So, I dont think it 
should have given him loan four. 
MYJAR has pointed out that Mr L repaid loans one to three according to the agreed term. 
And that he repaid loan four early so this shows the borrowing was sustainable. But MYJAR 
cant have known Mr L was in the position to repay the loan early at the outset of the 
borrowing. and while I cant know for sure, but because we know Mr L had already been 
borrowing from elsewhere, it could have been the case that he took further borrowing from 
another short-term credit provider to repay his lending with MYJAR. 
So, like the adjudicator Im also upholding the complaint about loan four and MYJAR should 
put things right.
Putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
 
refund all interest and charges Mr L paid on loan four;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loan four from Mr Ls credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ls complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.Catherine Langley
Ombudsman