DRN-2461763
The complaint
Ms J complains about the basis on which a calculation has been carried out by Wesleyan 
Assurance Society (Wesleyan) to compensate her for the unsuitable advice she was given to 
take a free standing additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan in 1993. She doesnt 
believe the calculation fairly reflects her actual financial loss. 
What happened
Ms J worked for the National Health Service and belonged to its Occupational Pension 
Scheme (OPS) from 1985. In 1993 she met with an adviser from Wesleyan and agreed to 
take out a FSAVC contract. She continued to pay into the plan  with some contribution 
breaks, until 2002. At that point she took out another plan, a personal pension, to which 
contributions were made against her non-NHS earnings. 
In 2007 Ms J met with a new adviser and transferred both the plans to new providers. 
In 2016 Ms J left the NHS, and I understand she transferred the new plans to a drawdown 
arrangement with another provider. She withdrew her tax free cash at this time. Also in 2016, 
using a representative, Ms J complained to Wesleyan about the advice she was given to 
take out the FSAVC. She thought she should have been advised to take out an added 
years arrangement instead. 
Wesleyan upheld her complaint and accepted that it was likely she would have purchased 
added years to increase her OPS retirement provision. It carried out a calculation to 
determine the extent of any loss she may have suffered and found that shed made a gain of 
over £13,666 and so no redress was due.
Ms Js representative looked into the calculation. It said, if Wesleyan had used actual 
pension values instead of a notional value, and had run the calculation up to Ms J retirement 
instead of 2007, it would have found that shed suffered a financial loss of £37,242.29. So it 
didnt accept the outcome of Wesleyans calculation. It also disputed Wesleyans use of 
guaranteed annuity rates (GARs) and a redistributed enhanced bonus within the calculation. 
It said these additions had inflated the notional value Wesleyan had used to compare 
against the added years alternative. 
Wesleyan didnt agree with the revisions to the calculation that Ms Js representative 
suggested, and so Ms J brought her complaint to us where one of our investigators looked 
into the matter. He thought it shouldnt be upheld and made the following points:
The calculation had been undertaken by an actuary and therefore there was no 
reason to suggest it wasnt correct. But he had considered the three assumptions 
that the representative thought Wesleyan had provided to the actuary as incorrect 
information.
While he understood that Ms J would not have received advice in 2007 if shed been 
advised to take out added years in 1993, she did receive advice  from a different 
firm, about retirement planning. He couldnt hold Wesleyan responsible for what 
happened after that advice.
He thought the notional values that Wesleyan had used for its FSAVC might need to 
be updated, but he was satisfied that the methodology used was within the 
regulators guidance on redress calculations for unsuitable advice around pension 
transfers including FSAVCs.
He thought the GARs were an important benefit of the FSAVC, so needed to be 
included in an assessment of whether Ms J had suffered any financial loss as a result 
of the advice.
He thought the regulators redress methodology had been followed  and by a 
qualified actuarial firm. So he was satisfied that, although shed been unsuitably 
advised, it had been demonstrated that Ms J hadnt suffered a loss.
 
Ms Js representative said it was generally agreed that Wesleyans advice to Ms J to take 
out FSVACs had been unsuitable and that she would most likely have purchased added 
years. So its only disagreement with the investigators assessment was the basis on which 
the calculation had been carried out. It made the following points in response:
It would normally concede that if Ms J had taken new advice to transfer again, then 
Wesleyans liability should be capped at that point. But in this case it thought that 
advice to take out added years might have been prohibitively expensive for Ms J at 
that time (she was then 45), whereas if shed already been contributing to added 
years then she would either have had no need to meet with the adviser or if she had, 
there would have been no need to disrupt the added years contract. So it thought 
Wesleyans liability for the loss should extend to when she left the OPS in 2016.
It was confident that the calculation itself had been carried out correctly  but 
disputed some of the information Wesleyan had supplied the actuaries. It said there 
was no requirement to use a notional value for Ms Js FSAVC because, firstly, a 
current value of her plan was available, and secondly the notional value included a 
redistribution of orphan assets from the current winding up of Wesleyans with-profits 
fund  which gave an inflated notional value that reduced the overall financial loss. It 
noted that Ms J hadnt ever benefitted from this redistribution into her plan.
It also didnt believe that an adjustment should be made for GARs because Ms J 
wouldnt benefit from them and the personal pension didnt include them. It thought it 
unfair that Wesleyan asked the actuary to apply the full impact of GARs on the 
calculation. 
Ms J transferred her existing policies to a new provider in 2017 to take her tax free 
lump sum and enter a drawdown arrangement. It was possible therefore to use the 
transfer values that were paid to that provider as the basis for the comparison with 
added years  instead of the notional values that Wesleyan had used. 
The investigator confirmed that the notional value was the best figure to use in order to put 
Ms J as close to the position shed now be in had she not been unsuitably advised by 
Wesleyan. He said this included the distribution of the orphan assets as, had Ms J retained 
the FSAVC she would have benefitted from the assets. He applied the same principle to 
including the GARs within the calculation. So he thought the notional value did what it was 
intended to do and created a comparative value to use in the redress calculation. 
He also reiterated that, while he understood the representatives point around not capping 
liability in 2007, the consequences of the advice Ms J received were now connected to the 
new firm. And if Ms J had lost significant value in her plan because of that advice it wouldnt 
be fair to attribute those losses to Wesleyan.  
Ms Js representative remained in disagreement. It said that the aim of the redress was to 
put Ms J as close to the position she would now be in, if she hadnt been given unsuitable 
advice. So it didnt understand why a notional value had been used for the current position when 
Ms Js actual current position was known  and could be used in the comparison calculation. 
It said it was unusual for any firm to use notional values when the current one was known 
and even Wesleyan usually sought to obtain current values from a provider where possible. 
In principle it thought that any subsequent transfer of the FSAVC wouldnt have occurred if it 
hadnt been sold in the first place.
So as no resolution could be found the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigators assessment and for largely the same 
reasons. I know Ms J will be disappointed with this outcome, and I have some sympathy for 
the position shes now in  so Ill explain my reasons.
In 1993 Wesleyan advised Ms J to take out a FSAVC contract. It now accepts that advice 
was unsuitable and has carried out a redress calculation on the basis that Ms J would have 
taken out an added years arrangement instead. Ms J hasnt disputed that outcome, so Im 
not going to comment further on the suitability of the advice, simply the issues that Ms J has 
raised about the assumptions that have been used by Wesleyan in providing certain 
information to the actuary that carried out the calculation.
I should also say at this point that there is broad agreement that the calculation itself has 
been carried out correctly and in line with the methodology set out by the regulator. And Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that this wasnt the case.
The date that liability for the advice should be capped 
Ms J says its not fair that the liability for any loss should be stopped in 2007 when she took 
advice from a new adviser. She says the advice wouldnt have been necessary if shed taken 
out added years in 1993 and even if she did seek further advice the adviser wouldnt have 
wanted to disrupt her existing added years arrangement. In addition, she said advice to 
take out added years in 2007 would have probably been prohibitively expensive so its 
unlikely this would have been recommended anyway. She thinks liability should continue 
until she retired, as her position would have been to hold onto the added years 
arrangement until retirement if she hadnt been unsuitably advised by Wesleyan. 
Theres no dispute here that Ms J did receive further advice in 2007 and that both her 
FSAVC and personal pension were transferred to new providers. But theres also a 
suggestion that if Ms J had taken out an added years contract in 1993 she would have 
continued with that contract throughout. And of course, I can understand why that argument 
would be put forward and why she may have continued. But I dont agree that would 
necessarily be the case.
However, Wesleyan did agree to extend its redress calculation to 2007 so I dont have to 
decide what Ms J might have done in 2002 when she took out a personal pension and 
seemed to stop her contributions to the FSAVC.  
But the fact of the matter is that Ms J did receive further advice in 2007 and I cant 
reasonably say Wesleyan is responsible for what happened after that point. As the 
investigator concluded it wouldnt be fair to hold Wesleyan responsible for losses that might 
have occurred after 2007 if the advice Ms J received led to a significant fall in the value of 
her plans. So I think its fair and reasonable for me to decide that Wesleyans responsibility should stop 
when new advice was given in 2007  which is the view Wesleyan took when it provided the 
actuary with information for the redress calculation. The regulator does allow for these 
actions within its guidance, although there is provision for it to be extended. But in this case, 
I dont see any reason to tell Wesleyan to extend the period as I dont think its fair to ignore 
the advice that was given by another firm in 2007.
The use of the notional value instead of current values
 
Ms J doesnt understand why Wesleyan used a notional value for the FSAVC contract when 
its possible to get an actual value of the plan after it was transferred to the new provider in 
2017. Her representative has provided some calculations he undertook to work out Ms Js 
potential loss based on these actual values. The representative says its unusual for an 
organisation to use notional values when actual values are available and it cited examples, 
including Wesleyan itself, when current values were used.
But I dont think the values from 2017 were actual values which were indicative of the 
position Ms J would now be in without the earlier advice. When the FSAVC was transferred 
in 2007 it was invested into a new plan and into different funds. It isnt possible to say that 
the returns on the plan  or the charges that were applied, would have been in line with what 
would have happened if Ms J had remained within her original FSAVC plan. And, as the 
objective here is to put Ms J as close to the position she would be in now had the earlier 
advice not been unsuitable, the comparison of the added years contract should be against 
the recommendation that Wesleyan made originally. And I think thats the most appropriate 
way for Wesleyan to work out what Ms Js FSAVC plan would now be worth if it had 
remained invested.
I take Ms Js point about how other firms and organisations would usually use actual values 
for such calculations, but I dont think thats relevant here  even if Wesleyan itself had 
previously used that method. I think each case should be assessed on its individual merits 
and I think what Wesleyan has set out here is fair and reasonable. 
The inclusion of GARs and the distribution of orphan assets in the calculation
Based on the same principle as Ive set out above, I also think its right that Wesleyan 
included the value of the GARs and orphan asset distribution in its calculation. Ms J thinks 
that the inclusion of the distribution inflated the value of her plan and thereby reduced the 
potential loss from the redress calculation and she never received the actual benefit of the 
distribution in her FSAVC. She also thinks the inclusion of the GARs was unfair as she wont 
be able to benefit from those either.
I do accept that Ms J will have lost out by not receiving these benefits of the FSAVC as they 
do clearly increase the notional value of the plan. But as the advice to transfer away from the 
FSAVC was given by another firm, then I cant reasonably say that Wesleyan is responsible 
for Ms J losing these benefits when she retired. Wesleyans advice in 1993, for Ms J to take 
out a FSAVC plan, has been deemed to be unsuitable. But it doesnt follow that unsuitable 
advice automatically leads to a financial loss. It can often be the case that a consumer 
makes a fortuitous gain from such advice  even if it is seen to be inappropriate.
And in order to determine whether a loss (or gain) has been made its necessary to include 
all the features and benefits that may have been included within the plan that was 
recommended, as this would show clearly whether Ms J is worse or better off as a result of 
the advice.
SummaryWesleyan didnt advise Ms J to transfer to a new provider in 2007  so I think its liability 
should be capped at that point. And I think its right for Wesleyan to use a notional value to 
work out what value its plan would have had if Ms J had kept the plan until her retirement. I 
think that, as Ms J would have benefitted from the GARs and increased bonus by remaining 
in the plan, its right for Wesleyan to include those in the calculation as well.
 
I dont think Wesleyans approach to what information it provided the actuary prior to the 
redress calculation being carried out was wrong and from what Ive seen I think the loss 
assessment was undertaken correctly. Im not going to ask Wesleyan to do anything further 
in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Ms Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman