DRN-4191063
The complaint
Ms M complains HSBC UK Bank Plc provided poor customer service when she contacted 
them about an email shed received. 
What happened
Ms M received an email from HSBC saying that they held a different mobile number for 
Ms M on their Text Message Banking alerts service, than the one they held for her centrally.
 
Ms M contacted HSBC about this email as she was concerned the email might not be 
genuine. She said shed never agreed to receive Text Message Banking alerts. And she was 
unhappy that she had to make a number of phone calls to find out what the email was about 
and how she was treated during these calls. So she complained. 
HSBC responded to the complaint to say they felt the calls had been handled appropriately 
and in line with their security procedures. Ms M was unhappy with this response so referred 
her complaint to our service. 
An Investigator considered Ms Ms concerns. He said, in summary, the email was genuine 
and that HSBC had told Ms M this when she spoke to them. And, having listened to the calls 
with HSBC, he was satisfied HSBC had not provided poor service and were asking 
questions in line with their security procedure. He was also satisfied that Ms M had signed 
up for their Text Message Banking alerts when she originally opened her account in 2017. 
Ms M said she didnt accept the Investigators findings. Although she now accepted that she 
had agreed to Text Message Banking alerts when she first opened the account, shed later 
cancelled this service. So she didnt think she shouldve received the email about it in the 
first place and she remained unhappy with the service shed received on the phone about 
this. 
Ms M also referred to a more recent issue shed had with a phone call with HSBC. This is 
the subject of a separate complaint. 
As Ms M didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M was unhappy that she received an email from HSBC that she found worrying, so she 
called them to ask about it. Ive listened to all the calls Ms M had with HSBC. 
HSBC has explained that Ms M received the email because they held two different phone 
numbers for her. I know Ms M thinks this was a mistake, but I dont think it was. The bank 
did hold two numbers for her at the time. I understand why Ms M wouldve found this 
concerning since, at the time, she didnt remember that shed signed up to the Text Message 
Banking service when she first opened the account and it was later cancelled. However, Ive 
listened to the calls she had with HSBC and Im satisfied that they told her the email was 
genuine straight-away.  
During the first call Ms M was told that the email had been sent in error, but the call got cut 
off before the agent could complete security and check the number HSBC held for Ms M. 
Although, Ms M was told the email had been sent in error, I dont think it was for the reasons 
explained above. And I dont think this makes a difference to her overall complaint as her 
concern at the time was whether the email was genuine  and shed already been told that it 
was. 
Because the first call was cut off, Ms M called the bank back. During this second call, the 
agent said she would need to pass Ms M to another colleague to complete security  Ms M 
said she didnt want to do that, so she hung up. That was Ms Ms choice, but Im satisfied 
this agent was correctly following the banks security procedure.
 
Ms M called back a third time. During this call, Ms M was passed to an agent to complete 
security who explained that because Ms Ms first call was cut off before security had been 
completed, further security was required. Ms M was also able to confirm her mobile number 
was correct during this call as well. 
I can hear in the calls that Ms M was quite anxious because she was worried about the email 
and became frustrated when told additional security was required. However, shed been told 
in the first call that the email was genuine. Its unclear why Ms M wasnt sufficiently 
reassured by this but Im satisfied that her query was answered in that first call.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC treated Ms M fairly.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman