DRN-1167264
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the fee that UKMS Money Solutions Limited is charging for her 
successful claim.
What happened
Mrs H complains that she was contacted multiple times to instruct UKMS to make a claim for 
mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) on her behalf. Shes explained that she only did 
so to stop the contact. She then explained that after this she was repeatedly asked to send 
information that shed already supplied.
Mrs Hs claim was successful, but shes explained this was only because she liaised directly 
with Lender B, so she didnt feel that UKMS should be able to charge its fee. UKMS has 
continued to chase Mrs H for the fee but Mrs H says this fee has been calculated based on 
an incorrect refund amount. And when she has questioned UKMS, she has been spoken to 
inappropriately. UKMS has also sent Mrs H letters to her old address, despite her telling it 
that she had moved. So Mrs H complained.
Our investigator asked UKMS for information to show the work it had completed for Mrs H, 
and to show it had explained the fees correctly. UKMS didnt respond. Our investigator 
upheld Mrs Hs complaint because there wasnt any evidence to show that UKMS could 
charge its fee for the work it had completed. He recommended it waive the fee for Mrs Hs 
claim. He also recommended it pay Mrs H £100 for the trouble and upset it caused her.
Mrs H accepted our investigators findings but UKMS didnt respond. So the complaint has 
been passed to me to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Despite UKMS being asked on a number of occasions to provide evidence in relation to this 
complaint, it has failed to do so. Because of this I agree with the investigator that this 
complaint should be upheld and the fees waived.
Mrs H has told us that she had to liaise with Lender B directly, and because of the work that 
she put in the claim was successful. UKMS hasnt provided anything to suggest that this 
wasnt the case; or that it had made clear what it would charge and for what work. So I dont 
think it is fair for UKMS to charge its fee in this case. It hasnt shown it could charge a fee, 
and hasnt shown what work it did to impact Mrs Hs mis-sold PPI claim.
Mrs H has explained that she was spoken to in a rude way when she questioned the invoice. 
Shes also explained that the invoice has been calculated using an incorrect settlement 
figure  and shes received chaser letters to her old address, despite updating her address 
with UKMS. I think that this wouldve caused her trouble and upset, particularly as she has tried to speak to UKMS about the issues and receiving post to an old address wouldve been 
frustrating. So I think UKMS should pay Mrs H £100 for this.
Putting things right
To put things right, UKMS Money Solutions Limited must waive the fee it's charging for Mrs 
H's successful PPI claim against Lender B. It must also pay Mrs H £100 compensation for 
the trouble and upset it has caused her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. UKMS Money Solutions Limited must 
waive Mrs Hs invoice and pay her £100 for the trouble and upset it has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman