DRN-4297961
The complaint
Mr T complains about the customer service and misinformation he was given by Lloyds Bank 
PLC.
What happened
Mr T was the victim of a scam around the middle of 2021. And after he raised a previous 
complaint with our service, Lloyds agreed to refund some of the money he had lost  which 
Mr T accepted.
After this previous complaint was settled, Mr T then received a number of text messages and 
a letter from Lloyds, saying it had logged his fraud case, was speaking with the bank the 
money was sent to and would be in touch with him again later. Mr T then phoned Lloyds to 
ask why he was being sent these messages when his complaint had already been settled, 
but was told he needed to speak to the bank the money was sent to and to our service.
Mr T was unhappy that Lloyds had given him incorrect information and didnt appear to know 
what was happening with his fraud case, so raised a complaint. Lloyds investigated, 
apologised for the messages hed received and offered to pay him £30 compensation. But 
Mr T wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so referred this complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said that the messages Mr T received 
wouldve been confusing, and that Lloyds didnt clearly explain what was going on in its call 
with him. So they thought Lloyds should increase its offer of compensation to £200. Lloyds 
agreed to this, but Mr T didnt so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds actions surrounding the payments Mr T made and whether it should refund the 
money he lost as a result of the scam were dealt with and settled in the previous complaint 
with our service. So I havent considered them here.
Ive seen copies of the text messages Mr T received and the letter he was sent. The first text 
message, sent on 7 February 2022, said Lloyds had logged his fraud case and would be in 
touch with an update in the next 15 calendar days. The second text message, sent on 
22 February 2022, said Lloyds had contacted the bank the money was sent to, was waiting 
on a response and would be in touch within 20 calendar days. And the letter Mr T was sent 
on 5 March 2022 said Lloyds was still investigating his claim and would be in touch in the 
next 20 days.
As Mr Ts fraud claim had been settled previously, I can see why these messages and letter 
would have been confusing for him and provided false hope that the money that hadnt been 
refunded to him already may now be refunded.
Ive also listened to a recording of the call when Mr T phoned Lloyds to ask about the 
messages. In this call, Lloyds says it has already assessed Mr Ts claim, so he needs to 
speak to either our service or the bank the money was sent to if he wants to take it further. 
But it doesnt answer the question Mr T is asking, doesnt acknowledge the messages he 
has received and doesnt seem to understand what has happened.
So I think the customer service Lloyds provided in this call fell below the standard wed 
expect. I think its reasonable that Mr T felt that Lloyds had given him incorrect information 
and didnt understand what was happening with his case. And I think this call, along with the 
messages he received, will have caused Mr T distress.
Lloyds has explained that it hadnt previously raised a fraud case or an indemnity with the 
bank the money was sent to, and so did both of these when issuing the settlement following 
the previous complaint. And this is what caused the text messages to be sent to Mr T. Its 
also said that it is entitled to try to recover the money from the bank it was sent to, even 
though Mr T had said there were no funds left. And while I think these are reasonable 
explanations for what happened, I still think what happened will have caused Mr T distress  
for the reasons I explained above.
Ive considered the distress and inconvenience Lloyds actions caused to Mr T and the 
impact they had on him, in order to determine the appropriate level of compensation that I 
think should be paid as a result. And I appreciate that Mr T has said he was given false hope 
by the messages and is concerned that Lloyds has been irresponsible with the information it 
gave him and wont be able to protect him if something similar happens again in the future.
But having taken this all into account, I think the total of £200 Lloyds has now offered is fair 
and reasonable compensation for the impact this all had on Mr T, and is in line with what the 
Financial Ombudsman Service would recommend in these circumstances.
I understand how Mr T feels about what happened and that he feels a larger amount of 
compensation should be paid. But I dont think the amount of compensation he has 
suggested is reasonable or in line with what the Financial Ombudsman Service would 
usually recommend.
I think the amount of compensation Lloyds has now offered is fair, and so I dont think it 
would be fair to require it to increase this offer of compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, and require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Pay Mr T a total of £200 compensation, if it has not already done soUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman