DRN-3738915
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the way AWP P&C SA (AWP) handled his claim.
What happened
Mr C had a travel insurance policy underwritten by AWP. He travelled abroad in 2020 but 
unfortunately became unwell and was hospitalised in late 2020. 
Mr C was discharged to recover in his accommodation rather than the hospital as a result of 
the risks associated with the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr C had to return for further treatment 
and was told he would need a second operation. 
AWP covered the claim for Mr Cs initial treatment but said that his second operation wasnt 
urgent and so could be done in the UK. It said it would repatriate Mr C but he didnt want to 
return due to the risks of contracting Covid-19 whilst travelling, and of developing 
complications (DVT). He would also have had to quarantine in a hotel on his return to the UK 
which would cost £3,000. And the NHS wouldnt be able to operate until 2023 due to the 
backlog. As Mr C didnt agree to repatriation, AWP ended cover. Mr C said his treating 
doctor had said he wasnt fit to fly but AWP had ignored this.
Mr C complained to AWP and unhappy with its response, referred his complaint to this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think AWP had handled the claim 
properly and recommended payment of any outstanding costs, benefit, plus interest and 
£150 compensation. 
AWP didnt respond and Mr C said, in summary:
He couldnt wait for the NHS and so has had his treatment privately.
AWP wanted to save money and ignored his treating doctors advice not to fly.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same reasons as 
already explained by the investigator. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms confirm what is covered under the emergency medical, repatriation and 
associated expenses. It says:
The insurer reserves the right to repatriate you to your home country when in the 
opinion of the medical emergency assistance service you are fit to travel. 
It also confirms in-patient may be payable:
In addition to the cost referred to above the insurer will also pay up to the amount 
shown in the Schedule of cover applicablefor each complete 24-hour period you 
are admitted to hospital outside your home country.
The policy confirms what isnt covered:
Any form of treatment or surgery which in the opinion of the doctor in attendance 
and the medical emergency assistance service can reasonably be delayed until you 
return to your home country.
Any medical treatment and associated costs you have to pay following your refusal of 
curtailment, or your decision not to move hospital or return to your home country after 
the date when, in the opinion of the medical emergency assistance service, you 
should have done so.
Treatment costs 
AWP provided a guarantee of payment for Mr Cs medical treatment so presumably it paid 
costs directly to the hospital. 
Mr C says he paid some initial costs himself when he was first admitted and it isnt clear 
whether AWP has reimbursed him. And so AWP should reimburse Mr C for any costs he 
paid for his initial treatment, plus interest, if it hasnt already done so. 
AWP should also pay any applicable in-patient benefit directly to Mr C, in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy, if it hasnt already done so.
Mr C also says he paid for his follow up treatment privately in the UK. But this isnt 
something which is covered under the terms of the policy. So I wont be asking AWP to pay 
any of these costs.
Repatriation  
Mr C says his treating doctor advised him not to fly for three months. AWP said as Mr C had 
an ongoing medical problem, it would be more appropriate for him to have treatment on the 
NHS in the UK for the following reasons:
Mr Cs second operation wasnt emergency treatment.
AWPs medical teams recommendations were made in line with the International 
Transport Associations (IATA) medical standards relating to DVTs, emboli and anti-
coagulation. 
Independent expert advice was also sought from a specialist in bleeding disorders 
and anti-coagulating medication  their opinion was that Mr C was fit to fly.
The treating doctor said his comments were purely recommendations.
Its final recommendations were for Mr C to travel Business class to allow extra room, 
a doctor would have escorted, compressions stockings would be supplied along with anti-coagulants and oxygen as necessary.
Taking all of the above into consideration, I dont think AWPs decision to repatriate was 
unreasonable. Although the treating doctor recommended that Mr C didnt fly, he did confirm 
that these were just his recommendations. And I am satisfied that AWP sought advice and 
reviewed the relevant guidelines before confirming their decision to repatriate. 
Understandably, Mr C didnt want to take any risks and decided not to return to the UK but in 
that case, AWP confirmed it would end its cover. I dont think that was an unreasonable 
decision to make. As AWP clearly explained that it wouldnt continue cover if Mr C refused to 
return to the UK, it was entitled to end cover as set out in the policy terms and conditions. 
Additionally, the second operation wouldnt be covered under the terms of the travel 
insurance policy as it wasnt emergency treatment. I appreciate Mr C says his treatment 
would be delayed in the UK but that doesnt make the treatment abroad eligible under the 
terms of the policy. 
Mr C is unhappy that AWP said he was using the policy like a private medical insurance 
(PMI) policy  but I think AWP were trying to explain how his travel insurance policy was 
different to a PMI policy and that only emergency treatment would be covered. So I dont 
think AWP did anything wrong by explaining this to Mr C.
Customer service issues
As set out in the investigators view, AWP delayed unreasonably in confirming cover at the 
outset. And also didnt always provide updates as promised for which I agree £150 
compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Mr C feels discriminated against and whilst I can understand why he feels that way, I havent 
seen any evidence that AWP acted in a discriminatory manner. Im satisfied that it acted 
within the policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to:
Reimburse Mr C for any medical costs he paid directly (if it hasnt done so already), 
until the date it withdrew cover, plus 8% simple interest per year from the date Mr C 
paid, to the date of settlement. 
Pay any applicable in-patient benefit, plus 8% simple interest per year, from the date 
of claim, to the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr C £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman