DRN-2130141
The complaint
Mr P complains about a life assurance product, currently administered by Sun Life 
Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life). He says the product shouldnt 
have been sold to him, as he was young and had no dependents or financial obligations at 
the time.
What happened
Mr P took out a Capital Builder policy in October 1980. The running of that policy has since 
passed to Sun Life. Theyre now responsible for actions of previous businesses. So to keep 
things simple, Ill just refer to Sun Life in my decision, even when talking about the policys 
previous administrators. 
In their response to the complaint, Sun Life confirmed theyd advised Mr P to have the 
product. Mr Ps said he was originally put in touch with Sun Life by a family friend who said it 
would be a good idea to have this sort of product. 
An information leaflet, which Sun Life say was given to Mr P at the time, described the 
Capital Builder as a long-term investment product, with an average of 95% of the premiums 
Mr P paid being added to an investment. If Mr P made monthly payments for the basic term 
of 25 years, Sun Lifes leaflet suggested he was likely to get a better return than if he saved 
his money in a bank account. 
The investment included life assurance. The leaflet explained this gave some tax relief  life 
assurance premium relief  which reduced how much Mr P had to pay every month.  
In their response to Mr Ps complaint, Sun Life explained this tax benefit reduced his monthly 
premium by more than the cost of the life assurance. They also pointed out that the 
investment had made money over the years. 
Mr P still felt a life assurance product shouldnt have been sold to him in 1980, so he brought 
the complaint to us. Our investigator found the product seemed to meet Mr Ps needs as an 
investment, one that had given him a positive return on the premiums he paid. 
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators view, so the matters come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why, although the 
reasoning is fundamentally the same as our investigator has already explained. 
As Sun Life noted in their response to the complaint, the investment in this case was sold 
before the Financial Services Act came into effect. That means there was no requirement to 
maintain a detailed record of what was said in 1980. Nor was there a requirement to discuss 
alternative products with Mr P, or his attitude to risk. But the adviser he spoke to still needed 
to act with due skill, care and diligence, so Ive considered this complaint on that basis. 
The leaflet and welcome letter for this product show me that it was being marketed mainly as 
an investment. Mr Ps kept that investment over the years, despite the terms and conditions 
saying he could have cashed it in without penalty since 2005. Mr Ps made no comment 
about the investment itself being unsuitable, just the life assurance part of it. That tells me 
Mr P likely wanted some sort of investment product in 1980, so I find Sun Life showed due 
skill when they recommended one to him.
While I appreciate theres a life assurance part to the investment product, that needs to be 
seen in context with its low cost and the benefits it brought. 
Having that policy meant Mr Ps investment qualified for life assurance premium relief. This 
isnt available any more for investments. But it used to work by the investment provider 
reducing the premiums a customer paid, and then reclaiming the reduction from HMRC. So 
for Mr P, that meant a benefit that saw more money added to his investment than if he hadnt 
had the life assurance policy. 
Arranging the investment in this way again shows Sun Life acted will due skill, making good 
use of Mr Ps money, to give him a benefit. Due care seems to have been taken, in as much 
as there havent been any technical issues arising from the way the investment was set up. 
And I find nothing that leads me to question the advisors diligence in this matter. 
Mr Ps complaint speaks about his personal circumstances, which relate to the death 
benefits of the life assurance. But as Ive explained, having the assurance gave benefits to 
his investment. Considering those as well, I find it was reasonable for Sun Life to include life 
assurance with the product when it was sold to Mr P.
My final decision
Based on the reasoning above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman