DRN-3696565
The complaint
Miss A complains about the amount of compensation that Secure Trust Bank plc, trading as 
Moneyway, has paid her after a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase 
agreement was returned.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Miss A under a hire purchase agreement with Moneyway in 
January 2022. Soon afterwards she took the car to a garage because the windscreen wiper 
wasn't working and a number of issues were identified. She complained to the dealer and 
says that she was told that Moneyway wouldnt pay for the car to be repaired but the dealer 
then agreed that she could return the car. She says that she incurred travel costs of £100 
and suffered distress and inconvenience so she complained to Moneyway.
It said that the agreement had been unwound and it reimbursed £100 to Miss A for the costs 
that shed incurred. Miss A wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. He said that Miss A 
had been able to return the car, Moneyway had refunded the costs involved in returning the 
car and there was no deposit or monthly payments to be refunded to her. He thought that 
that was a fair outcome in the circumstances.
Miss A has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that it took ten days for it to be agreed that she could return the car and the 
journey to return it caused her serious stress. She says that she was concerned about 
having to pay repair costs of about £3,000, she was offered an independent inspection of the 
car (which she refused) and she had to drive two hours on a busy motorway in a car that 
shed been advised was not fit for motorway driving.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Moneyway, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss A;
there were clearly some issues with the car and Miss A says that she was told that 
Moneyway wouldnt pay for the car to be repaired and there was a delay before she 
was offered an independent inspection of the car;
the dealer then agreed that she could return the car so the hire purchase agreement 
was unwound and, after she complained to Moneyway, it agreed to reimburse her for 
the travel costs of £100 that shed incurred;
as the car was returned and Moneyway ended the agreement, theres no need for 
me to make any finding as to whether or not the car was of satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied to Miss A;
Miss A hadnt paid a deposit or any monthly payments for the car to be supplied to 
her;
I sympathise with Miss A for the issues that she was caused by the car and the 
distress and inconvenience that shes described, particularly when she was returning 
the car, but I consider that Moneyways response to her complaint was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and Im not persuaded that there was an 
unreasonable delay in it being agreed that she could return the car; and
Miss A has returned the car, Moneyway has ended the hire purchase agreement and 
its paid her £100 to reimburse her for the travel costs that she incurred  Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Moneyway to pay her any other compensation or to take any other action in 
response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman