DRN-3300764
The complaint
Mr K complains about the charges for excess mileage and damage that Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, has made after he 
voluntarily terminated the hire purchase agreement under which a car had been supplied to 
him.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 18 January 2022 in which I described 
what had happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Mr K under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-
Benz Finance that he signed in March 2016. The car had a price of £24,519, Mr K 
paid a deposit of £1,079.83 so the amount of credit was £23,439.16, and the total 
amount payable was shown on the agreement as £31,397.99. Mr K agreed to make 
48 monthly payments of £456.42 for the car to be supplied to him. If he wanted to 
purchase the car at the end of the agreement hed have to pay an optional purchase 
payment of £8,400 and a purchase activation fee of £10. The car was about a year 
old and it had been driven for 13,503 miles.
The agreement said that Mr K had the right to terminate the agreement and that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance would be entitled to the return of the car and half of the total 
amount payable under the agreement (which was shown on the agreement as being 
£15,699). Mr K voluntarily terminated the agreement in February 2020 and he says 
that he was told by a manufacturers dealer that he wouldnt have to pay any 
outstanding amounts due if he entered into an agreement for a replacement car. He 
received an invoice from Mercedes-Benz Finance in March 2020 for £5,413.62 which 
comprised a charge of £340 for damage and £4,228.02 plus VAT for an excess 
mileage of 46,978 as the car was returned with a mileage of 140,481.
Mr K complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance about the excess mileage charge. It 
said that it didnt have any persuasive evidence to suggest that an alternative 
agreement was reached so it was only able to rely on the terms of his agreement 
which said that an excess distance charge would be payable at the rate of 9p plus 
VAT for each mile in excess of the allowed distance of 20,000 miles per year.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision which were as follows:
Mr K says that he was verbally advised by a manufacturers dealer that, if he was to 
take out a new financial agreement, the excess mileage charge would be void. He 
says that if he hadnt been told that he would have kept his car and not entered into 
an agreement for a new one so wouldnt have incurred the end of contract charge of 
£5,413.62. Hes provided a statement from his nephew who was with him at the time. 
The nephew says that Mr Ks English isnt good so he wanted his nephew there as a 
translator and confidence booster. Mr Ks nephew says Mr K was told that he 
wouldnt have to pay any outstanding payments towards the car and there wouldnt 
be any outstanding or hidden fees if Mr K agreed to do the trade and purchased a 
newer car.
Mercedes-Benz Finance representative says that they werent present at the point of 
sale so are unable to comment on the conversations that may, or may not, have 
taken place between Mr K and the sales executive. They say that the agreement acts 
as evidence of what was agreed between Mr K and the dealer and, as there wasnt 
any persuasive evidence to suggest that an alternative agreement was reached, 
Mercedes-Benz Finance was only able to rely on the terms of the agreement.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has provided an e-mail exchange with the manufacturers 
dealer which says that the sales executive works in its used car department but the 
site from which the car was supplied to Mr K has closed down. The e-mail exchange 
asks that Mr Ks complaint be discussed with the sales executive and a response be 
sent but Mercedes-Benz Finance hasnt provided any further information from the 
sales executive or dealer.
In complaints such as this one, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Theres no documentary evidence, other than the recollections of Mr K and his 
nephew, to show what was discussed and agreed by Mr K and the sale executive in 
February 2020. The hire purchase agreement was signed in March 2016 and was 
due to end in March 2020, so only about a month later. The car that had been 
supplied to Mr K was about five years old, had a mileage of 140,481 (so had been 
driven for 126,978 miles since it was supplied to Mr K) and the allowed distance 
under the agreement was 20,000 miles each year (so 80,000 miles in total). The 
excess mileage charge for that use of the car was £5,073.62 (including VAT).
Mr K says that he was told that the excess mileage charge and damage charge 
wouldnt be payable if he entered into another agreement. He says that if he hadnt 
been told that he would have kept his car and not entered into an agreement for a 
new one so wouldnt have incurred the end of contract charge of £5,413.62. The 
optional purchase payment if Mr K wanted to keep the car was £8,400 and there was 
a purchase activation fee of £10  so Mr K could have paid £8,410 to buy the car and 
he wouldnt have needed to pay the charges of £5,413.62.
I consider that the evidence on this is finely balanced  but I dont consider that its 
necessary for me to make a finding as to whether or not Mr K was led to believe that 
he wouldnt have to pay the excess mileage charge if he entered into a new 
agreement. Thats because Ive also considered whether or not Mercedes-Benz 
Finance can charge Mr K for excess mileage under sections 99 and 100 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 and any lack of clarity in the terms of the agreement.
The agreement says:
You have the right to end this agreement. To do so you should write to the 
person you make your payments to. We will then be entitled to the return of 
the goods and to half the total amount payable under the agreement, that is 
£15,699. If you have already paid at least this amount to us plus any overdue 
instalments and have taken reasonable care of the goods, you will not have to 
pay any more.The agreement also says, under a heading which says Default Charges:
If you do not exercise your right to purchase the vehicle (including if the 
agreement terminates early for any reason), an excess distance charge will 
be payable at the rate of 9.00 pence (plus VAT) for each Mile, by which the 
total distance travelled by the vehicle at the end of the period of hire exceeds 
the allowed distance, calculated at the rate of 20000 Miles per year, pro-rated 
for part years (see Condition 12).
Condition 12 sets out more information about the excess mileage charge.
Sections 99 and 100 of the Consumer Credit Act set out the right that a consumer 
has to voluntary terminate their hire purchase agreement and the liability that is due 
on termination. The terms of the agreement, including those relating to any excess 
mileage charges, are required to comply with those sections. Section 99 says:
(1) At any time before the final payment by the debtor under a regulated hire 
purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall 
be entitled to terminate the agreement by giving notice to any person entitled 
or authorised to receive the sums payable under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any 
liability under the agreement which has accrued before the termination .
So any liabilities which accrue prior to termination are not affected by the termination. 
If the excess mileage charge has accrued before the voluntarily termination of the 
agreement, I consider that it would be consistent with the provisions of section 99 for 
Mercedes-Benz Finance to make that charge to Mr K.
But I consider that the excess mileage charge accrues after the agreement has been 
terminated. The agreement says that the excess mileage charge applies  If you do 
not exercise your right to purchase the vehicle (including if the agreement terminates 
early for any reason) and the excess mileage charge is then calculated on the basis 
of the cars mileage after it has been returned  so it would only be known after the 
agreement had been terminated. For these reasons, I consider that Mercedes-Benz 
Finance cant charge for excess mileage in these circumstances under section 99.
Section 100 says:
(1) Where a regulated hire-purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement 
is terminated under section 99 the debtor shall be liable, unless the 
agreement provides for a smaller payment, or does not provide for any 
payment, to pay to the creditor the amount (if any) by which one-half of the 
total price exceeds the aggregate of the sums paid and the sums due in 
respect of the total price immediately before the termination 
(3) If in any action the court is satisfied that a sum less than the amount 
specified in subsection (1) would be equal to the loss sustained by the 
creditor in consequence of the termination of the agreement by the debtor, 
the court may make an order for the payment of that sum in lieu of the 
amount specified in subsection (1).
(4) If the debtor has contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of the 
goods or land, the amount arrived at under subsection (1) shall be increased 
by the sum required to recompense the creditor for that contravention .Section 100(1) allows Mercedes-Benz Finance, in effect, to charge Mr K for half of 
the total price of the car under the agreement so, if hed already paid that amount, he 
wouldnt have to pay anything more. Section 100(4) allows for the amount to be 
increased if Mr K had failed to take reasonable care of the car.
Under the agreement, the requirement for compensation to be paid because the car 
isnt returned  in good condition, repair and working order  is separate from any 
requirement pay for excess mileage. Im not persuaded that exceeding a mileage 
limit would be considered to be failing to take reasonable care of the car or that any 
excess mileage charge would be included in the total price of the car. I dont consider 
that the provisions in the agreement that refer to excess mileage charges would 
reasonably be considered to be payable because Mr K had failed to take reasonable 
care of the car and I dont consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance can charge for 
excess mileage in these circumstances under section 100(4).
Section 173 of the Consumer Credit Act says that a term in an agreement is void to 
the extent that its inconsistent with a provision in the act. For the reasons that Ive 
set out above, I dont consider that the provisions of the agreement concerning 
excess mileage charges on a voluntary termination of the agreement are consistent 
with the protections of the Consumer Credit Act. I consider that those provisions are 
void to the extent that they relate to excess mileage charges when the agreement is 
voluntarily terminated.
Mr K has paid at least £15,699 to Mercedes-Benz Finance and I dont consider that 
its allowed to also charge him for excess mileage in these circumstances. Even if Im 
mistaken about this, I still consider that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld because 
the agreement isnt as clear about the excess mileage charges as it should have 
been.
I consider that an underlying lack of clarity in the agreement about the cost of 
voluntarily terminating it is also an important consideration as to whether its fair and 
reasonable for a charge for any excess mileage to be made in these circumstances.
Ive considered the relevant provisions of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) including:
CONC 2.3.2 which says: A firm must explain the key features of a regulated 
credit agreement to enable the customer to make an informed choice as 
required by CONC 4.2.5 R (adequate explanations); and
CONC 4.2.5 which says:
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must:
a) provide the customer with an adequate explanation of the matters referred 
to in (2) in order to place the customer in a position to assess whether the 
agreement is adapted to the customers needs and financial situation; ...
(2) The matters referred to in (1)(a) are:
a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided 
under the agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the 
amount can be determined, in total under the agreement;
c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would 
have a significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the 
customer is unlikely to foresee.Ive also considered principle 7 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles for 
Businesses which says: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
I dont consider that the hire purchase agreement is as clear as it should have been 
or that its consistent with the CONC provisions and the principles for business for the 
following reasons:
one section of the agreement sets out in a box headed Termination: Your 
rights specific wording that Mercedes-Benz Finance was required to include 
in the agreement which says, in effect, that if Mr K had paid at least half the 
total amount payable under the agreement, he wouldnt have to pay any more 
 and theres no further comment in that section about excess mileage 
charges;
the excess mileage charge is set out under a heading Default Charges but I 
dont consider that exceeding the contractual mileage would be a breach of 
contract as the contract specifically included a charge for exceeding that limit 
and I dont consider that excess mileage charges would be properly 
considered to be default charges;
condition 8 of the agreement deals with Early Termination by you but 
doesnt specifically refer to a charge for excess mileage if a customer should 
terminate the agreement early and return the car  but it does refer to another 
condition which deals with additional charges regarding the condition of the 
car;
condition 8 lists what Mr K would need to do and pay when terminating early 
and reiterates that he must comply with the terms of the statutory notice - 
one of which is that he wont need to pay more than £15,699;
condition 12 of the agreement refers to the calculation of an excess distance 
charge in circumstances where the car is returned  including early 
termination - but I consider that theres a lack of clarity in the agreement 
about Mr Ks liability if he voluntarily terminated it and I dont consider that the 
terms of the agreement are consistent with the provisions of the Consumer 
Credit Act;
condition 12 is not well signposted in respect of early termination, and only 
appears to be cross referenced in the section headed Default Charges;
the right to early terminate the agreement and the maximum liability for it are 
clearly set out on page 2 of the agreement in a bold box but the terms relating 
to charges for excess mileage, which might affect that liability on early 
termination, are not given equivalent prominence and I consider that theyre 
not clearly and consistently set out or referred to; and
condition 12 is included in the terms and conditions of the agreement and is 
not signposted in a way that would have naturally drawn Mr Ks attention to it 
if he was intending to return the car early.
I consider that the lack of clarity in the agreement about excess mileage charges on 
voluntary termination could result in a significant adverse effect on Mr K in a way that 
he was unlikely to foresee. I dont consider that he was properly or adequately 
informed that an excess mileage charge would increase his liability beyond the 
£15,699 payable on voluntary termination of his agreement. I dont consider that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance has met its obligations under CONC 2.3.2 and CONC 4.2.5.For reasons similar to those set out in the bullet points above, I dont consider that 
the agreement is clear, fair and not misleading - so I dont consider that Mercedes-
Benz Finance has complied with principle 7 of the Principles for Businesses. I 
consider that the lack of clarity in the agreement is likely to have prejudiced Mr K 
financially and I dont consider that its fair or reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance 
to charge him for excess mileage in these circumstances.
I understand that Mr K hasnt paid the charge of £5,413.62. Mr Ks complaint form 
doesnt specifically refer to the charge for damage but it does refer to the end of 
contract charges of £5,413.62 and its clear that his complaint to Mercedes-Benz 
Finance and this service was made on the basis that hed been told by a 
manufacturers dealer that he wouldnt have to pay any outstanding amounts due if 
he entered into an agreement for a replacement car  and I consider that that would 
have been both the excess mileage charges and damages charges.
Mercedes- Benz Finances response to Mr K didnt refer to the damage charges and 
its provided no evidence in support of the damages charges. Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that a damage charge of £340 is justified in these 
circumstances. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance 
to now remove the charge of £5,413.62 from Mr Ks account. If Mercedes-Benz 
Finance has recorded any adverse information on Mr Ks credit file relating to that 
charge, I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to remove that information.
Subject to any further comments from Mr K or from Mercedes-Benz Finance my provisional 
decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint. Mercedes-Benz Finance has accepted 
my provisional decision but Mr K hasnt responded to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mercedes-Benz Finance has accepted my provisional decision and Mr K hasnt 
responded to it, I see no reason to change the findings that I set out in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to take the actions 
described in my provisional decision and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and I order Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to:
1. Remove the charge of £5,413.62 from Mr Ks account.
2. Remove any adverse information about that charge that its recorded on Mr Ks credit 
file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022. 
Jarrod HastingsOmbudsman