DRN-2496226
The complaint
 Mr H has complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr H took seven loans from Lending Stream between March 2018 and December 2019. A 
summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us by Lending Stream, can 
be found below. 
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount 
Borrowed
1 03/03/2018 15/03/2018 6 £600.00
2 04/04/2018 20/09/2018 6 £860.00
3 06/10/2018 24/11/2018 6 £500.00
4 08/06/2019 04/09/2019 6 £1,170.00
5 06/11/2019 17/12/2019 6 £560.00
6 30/11/2019 20/07/2020 6 £840.00
7 22/12/2019 20/07/2020 6 £550.00
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Hs complaint. He didnt think Lending Stream were 
wrong to approve Mr Hs first six loans. But the adjudicator thought that Lending Stream 
ought to have been completing more comprehensive checks by loan 7. And this would have 
shown that Mr H was having problems managing his money. At this point, Mr H had several 
outstanding loans with other short-term lenders as well as an outstanding loan with Lending 
Stream. So, the adjudicator upheld Mr Hs seventh loan.
Lending Stream agreed with the adjudicators assessment and made an offer to settle the 
complaint in line with what was recommended. 
Mr H disagreed with the findings as he felt more loans shouldve been upheld. Mr H provided 
the following points to consider;
Mr H feels that more of the loans were unaffordable given the huge debt that should 
have shown up in Lending Stream's checks.
Mr H recently had another adjudicator rule in his favour on a case where the lender 
was deemed to have lent irresponsibly in September 2019.
Mr H feels his financial situation was dire and a check of bank statements or proper 
credit checking would've found all loans were unaffordable.
Mr H made his repayments on time, but he was borrowing heavily from other sources 
like freinds and family. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr H could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. 
Loans 1-3
Lending Stream carried out an income and expenditure check before approving each of 
Mr Hs loans. For each loan, Lending Stream used national averages for the different 
expense categories to judge the reasonableness of Mr Hs declared outgoings. If Lending 
Stream thought Mr H had underdeclared compared to the averages, it would add a buffer to 
Mr Hs figure.
For these loans, Mr H declared his monthly income was between £1,850 and £1,900. And 
his expenditure ranged from £525 to £850. After Lending Stream considered the national 
averages for each expense category, it recorded Mr Hs expenditure as between £525 and 
£958. Ive considered the contractual repayments he was due to make for each loan, and I 
think the information Mr H declared suggested the repayments he was due to make were 
likely affordable.
Lending Stream has provided the results of the credit checks it completed for these loans. 
Lending Stream knew Mr H had nine active accounts at the time of each loan, with no 
defaults or delinquent accounts. The credit check results do not show what type of accounts 
Mr H held with other creditors, so Lending Stream wouldnt have been aware of any short-
term loan accounts based on this information alone.
Having considered the contractual monthly repayments Mr H was due to make for his first 
three loans, along with the information Lending Stream gathered, I dont think it was unreasonable that Lending Stream concluded it was reasonable to lend to Mr H. He was 
approved these loans early on in the relationship with Lending Stream. And there was 
nothing in the information Mr H provided or the credit check results which suggested he 
could not afford or sustain the repayments he was committing to make.
Loans 4-6
Firstly, I would like to start by saying Im satisfied there are two lending chains - loans 1-3 
and loans 4-7. I say this because Mr H took out his fourth loan more than six months after he 
repaid his previous loan. And I think this amount of time was sufficient enough for Lending 
Stream to have reasonably assumed that Mr H had overcome whatever financial reason led 
him to take the first three loans. What this means is that Lending Stream could treat Mr Hs 
application afresh, and so treat loan 4 as if it was loan 1. 
Lending Stream completed a similar level of checks for these loans. But it isnt clear if it 
completed credit checks, as the data for each of these loans is not available. Its possible 
that Lending Stream completed credit checks but was provided with data that is no longer 
available. But I dont think that automatically leads to Mr Hs complaint being upheld about 
these loans. 
Ive considered the information Mr H told the lender about his circumstances. Mr H declared 
his monthly income was around £2,595 for each loan, and his monthly expenditure was no 
more than £625. This would have left Mr H with a disposable monthly income enough to 
comfortably meet the loan repayments of no more than £439.29. So like loans 1  3 I dont 
think Lending Stream was wrong to approve these loans. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr H was struggling financially and repaying these loans has been
difficult. And I accept that Mr Hs full financial circumstances may not have been reflected in
the information he provided. It might be that his actual financial position may well have been 
apparent if further information, such as bank statements, had been obtained. 
But I think Lending Stream was still entitled to rely on the information Mr H told it at this 
stage of the borrowing. Mr Hs borrowing history did not suggest there was any underlying 
issues. I also dont think Lending Stream needed to go as far as asking for Mr Hs bank 
statements in order to verify the information he told it about his financial circumstances. So, I 
dont think Lending Stream was wrong to approve these loans.
I acknowledge that Mr H has had another loan with another lender in September 2019. And 
his complaint was upheld. But we look at each individual complaint on its own merits - as 
each business may complete a different type of check based on the individual circumstances 
of each loan. And the other complaint Mr H has referred to has different circumstances. 
Loan 7
Lending Stream has already agreed with the adjudicators assessment that something went  
wrong when it approved this loan for Mr H. So, I dont think this loan is in dispute, and I no 
longer think I need to make a finding about it. But Ive included below what Lending Stream 
needs to in order to put things right. 
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened had it not provided loan 7, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For example, having been declined this lending Mr H may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr H would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Lending Streams liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Refund all the interest, fees and charges that Mr H paid for loan 7.
Add 8% simple a year from the date Mr H made his repayments to the date of 
settlement*;
Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit 
file about loan 7.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Lending Stream 
should give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above, Im partly upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right as Ive set out above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman