DRN-3954589
The complaint
Ms D has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) acted irresponsibly by allowing 
her to continually increase her overdraft over a period of sixteen months. She says the 
lending has caused her financial difficulty and would like the debt written off. 
What happened
Ms D held an account with Santander with an overdraft limit of £150 in November 2018. This 
increased to £1,150 by April 2022. 
Ms D complained to Santander that allowing her to increase her overdraft limit was 
irresponsible and unaffordable for her and led to financial difficulty.
Santander didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint but following Ms D bringing her complaint to this 
service as a gesture of goodwill it offered to settle her complaint by:
Refunding fees and interest from January 2022 and apply 8% to that amount; and
It would use the settlement amount to reduce Miss Ds overdraft balance and reduce 
the overdraft limit to the value of the remaining balance.
The offer was made on the basis that Miss D would contact its Financial Support Team 
within 30 days to arrange a reduction plan to clear the remaining overdraft and Santander 
would suspend fees and interest from being applied to the account. If no plan is agreed 
within the 30 day period Santander in-line with the terms and conditions of the account will 
remove the overdraft by providing 30 days notice.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that what Santander had 
offered was a fair way to settle the complaint. 
Ms D didnt wish to accept this offer. She wants the outstanding debt to be written off and 
has asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Santander has already agreed to
do to put things right for Ms D is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been provided this isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have long since 
been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business 
increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed 
normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the 
point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest and 
charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case after reviewing Ms Ds statements and credit checks carried out by Santander up 
until January 2022 (the point where Santander has agreed to refund overdraft charges), Im 
in agreement with our adjudicator that there wasnt anything in the information Santander 
had which suggested Ms D wouldnt be able to repay the overdraft within a reasonable 
period of time and that she shouldnt be approved for the overdraft limit increases requested. 
The credit checks show with Ms D remained low risk and had a low level of indebtedness. 
And Ms Ds statements show though she did use her overdraft, she did manage to see at 
least initially a credit balance regularly and that the credit turnover was sufficient to service 
the overdraft. And while I acknowledge as time passed Ms D used her overdraft more, it 
wasnt until around November 2021 when her account remained overdrawn that there were 
signs of financial difficulty with less incoming credits than when her overdraft and 
subsequent increases were approved.
Santander has already agreed to settle Ms Ds complaint within a couple of months of when I 
think Ms Ds account was showing the first signs of financial difficulty. Ms D will be left with 
an outstanding balance, once all adjustments have been made, and shes been refunded all 
of the interest, fees and charges caused by the overdraft facility. So while Ms D will be left 
with a balance and she might be unhappy with this, Santander has agreed to do what Id 
normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provide credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be 
fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Ms D would like to Santander to write off the balance of her overdraft and says the 
irresponsible lending has caused her financial hardship. But this is a reason for upholding 
her complaint rather than a reason for departing from our normal approach to putting things 
right such as hers. 
All the interest, fees and charges Santander shouldnt have added have been removed from 
what she now needs to pay. So what Ms D is left with to repay are the funds which she used 
and benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have left her with a 
debt that she wouldnt otherwise have been left with. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind Ms D spent the credit, I think its perfectly fair 
and reasonable to expect Ms D to repay these funds. And I dont think that Ms Ds 
unhappiness at having a balance to repay on her overdraft, even after her complaint has 
been upheld, is in itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Santander has already offered to do to put 
things right for Ms D is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case and Im not persuaded further compensation is warranted, so Im not requiring Santander to do anything 
more. As this is the case, its up to Ms D to decide whether she wishes to accept 
Santanders offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Santander UK Plc has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Ms D is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman