DRN-3648408
The complaint
Mrs L complains that St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) didnt give her 
suitable advice about her existing whole of life policies in 2015 and 2016.
What happened
Mrs L had two reviewable whole of life policies. It appears she was the life assured for both 
but originally wasnt the owner of the policies. She then became trustee of the policies and 
her son, the beneficiary and additional trustee, took over-paying the premiums in 2016.
Mrs L has complained that following reviews, the sum assured had to decrease significantly. 
She explained SJP had reviewed her position in both 2015 and 2016 and advised her to 
keep the policies in place. She says this was unsuitable as the policy was supposed to 
provide a legacy and it wouldnt achieve this. She said that SJP wouldve known this and as 
she didnt require life cover, the advice shouldve been to cancel the policies.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained that SJP gave 
Mrs L sufficient information in 2016 to explain that the policy may not be viable in the future 
and it was her choice to continue with the policies.
Mrs L disagreed. She said she wasnt told the information that was explained to the 
beneficiary (and other trustee) and the risks werent explained to her directly. She said that 
she was told the changes at review were down to the unusual financial crisis in 2008/2009 
and wasnt told that the policy would change so significantly again. She said SJP was aware 
the policies were to provide a legacy for her family and SJP ought to have known these 
wouldnt have achieved her objectives. She asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered in detail Mrs Ls submissions, although Ive not responded to each individual 
point. Ive focused on the crux of this complaint which is whether SJP gave advice about the 
whole of life policies in 2015 and 2016, and if so, whether this advice was suitable. Its 
important to note that  in line with the decision sent from an Ombudsman at this service  
Ive not considered any complaint about the sale of these policies as these were not found to 
be within this services jurisdiction.
2015
In 2015 it appears that one of Mrs Ls policies was reviewed, and the premium needed to 
increase, or the sum assured needed to decrease. I can see that SJP wrote to Mrs Ls policy 
provider to ask about why such a large change was necessary and asked for a comparison 
in costs for a new policy guaranteed for 10 years. Its unclear what happened in response to 
this letter but I cant see any advice was provided here to Mrs L about her whole of life 
policies. It appears SJP was assisting her in getting some answers for the large increase.
I note Mrs L says she was told the increase was due to the unusual global financial crisis. 
Ive not seen evidence to show SJP was aware of what caused such an increase  as SJP 
isnt the policy provider  but Ive not seen anything to suggest that SJP was advising Mrs L 
in 2015 that the policy was suitable or that it didnt have to go through additional changes. 
So, I cant see SJP has done anything wrong here.
2016
In 2016, SJP did provide Mrs L with advice on her whole financial situation. Included in this 
advice was a mention of her whole of life policies. The advice letter points out that the 
policies were taken out on Mrs Ls life with premiums paid by the business she was working 
for. Theres suggestion that these were key person policies  that is to provide a sum 
assured that can be used for the business should Mrs L pass away. In any event, Im 
satisfied that Mrs Ls policies were paid for by her business until she left that business. The 
advice given to her in 2016 related to her personal finances, and part of this was for her son 
 an additional trustee and sole beneficiary  to take over the premiums for these whole of 
life policies as Mrs L could no longer afford them. 
Mrs L says she ought to have been advised that these policies wouldnt have met her 
objectives. But in this particular case, her policies were for the benefit of her son, and the 
advice was for her son to continue paying at least one of them in order to retain the benefit. I 
can see that SJP sent a letter to her son  a trustee of the policies  which said one of the 
policies has yet to be reviewed and so maintaining that will provide the same level of sum 
assured for the same premium until the review date. SJP also said at the review the 
premium may need to increase substantially. SJP said, in relation to the other policy that the 
next review may mean the policy is no longer viable. So, Im satisfied any decision to retain 
these policies was done so with the knowledge that they could substantially change.
Mrs L maintains these policies were to provide a legacy for her family. Its not clear if this 
was the original objective as the premiums were paid by her business. But regardless of the 
original objective, the advice SJP gave her about these in her full financial review was:
I have considered the 2 flexible whole of life plans covering [Mrs Ls] life with [provider 1 and 
provider 2], and I feel it is right for [Mrs Ls son] to take over the monthly premium payments 
with immediate effect and to receive any benefit should it become payable in the future.
Ultimately, Mrs Ls son could start paying premiums and receive the full benefit for as long 
as he wanted the policies live. As he hadnt paid the premiums up to that point, he was 
standing to gain from something he hadnt paid much into. And as Im only considering the 
advice from 2016, the alternative wouldve been for the policy to be cancelled  and so I 
dont think the advice SJP gave for Mrs Ls son to maintain premiums was unsuitable. It 
would provide the cover, for his benefit, for as long as he wanted to pay those premiums for. 
Im also satisfied that SJP disclosed the full risks associated with continuing with the policies.
Mrs L says only her son was given information about the risks, but I think its likely the full 
risks of the policies increasing was disclosed to her as well. And I can see that she was 
aware already of the significant changes needed on one of the policies following her 2015 
review. I cant see anything that would lead me to believe that the advice SJP gave  for the 
policies to remain until the review dates at which point they may change significantly, and for 
the premiums to be paid by the sole beneficiary  was unsuitable for Mrs Ls circumstances 
at the time.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman