DRN-2469333
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Quickly Finance trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) is charging their 
success fee for a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim. She said she hadnt authorised 
them to make.
What happened
In July 2020 Ms B was told by one of her lenders Ill call H that shed been mis-sold PPI, 
and an offer of compensation for this was made to her. But in September 2020, Ms B was 
invoiced for the payment of FTRs fee for her having a successful claim.
Ms B said shed made her PPI claims directly with her lenders and hadnt signed any 
authorisation for FTR to make these claims for her. She complained to FTR.
FTR said Ms B, in August 2019, had signed their letter of authority (LoA) for them to check 
whether shed been mis-sold PPI. And in signing the LoA shed agreed to their terms and 
conditions. Her lender H had auto converted her claim from the LoA theyd sent to them, 
and so their fee was justified.
Ms B wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that on balance Ms B had authorised FTR to act on her behalf. But 
shed cancelled the agreement before any redress was paid. He didnt think FTR had acted 
fairly or reasonably in asking for their fee. He said the fee should be waived and Ms B paid 
£100 for the trouble and upset that this caused.
FTR didnt agree, theyve asked for an ombudsman to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I base my 
decision on what I think most likely happened. 
FTR feel strongly that Ms B had agreed to use their services and that it was because of their 
enquiry her mis-sold PPI claim was successful. I can also understand Ms Bs frustration as 
she doesnt think shed authorised FTR to act on her behalf. 
I know Ms B disputes she signed the LoA, but it isnt our role to consider whether a signature 
is genuine or not, as we arent handwriting analysis experts, and forgery would be for a 
criminal court to decide. In making my decision I need to determine whether Ms B had 
authorised FTR to act on her behalf. And if she had, whether they knew she no longer 
wanted them to work for her. And to see whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in 
their actions with her.
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI for Ms Bs lenders, 
including H in August 2019,  a few days before the deadline for making such claims. The 
personal details in this application correlate with the personal details Ms B has given this 
service. 
So, Ive looked at the web journey process. FTR has shown the screens Ms B would have 
gone through. The screen shows a statement that says:
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check
And below is a box that says How it works. And includes the wording:
 *Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will 
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24% 
inclusive of VAT will be payable on all successful claims  as per the Terms of Engagement. 
The *Free PPI check in this wording was bolded in red and the asterisk linked it to the 
headline statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement.
The next screens asked for information from Ms B about her personal details and lenders. 
On completing the application, FTR said a LoA would be generated, populated with this 
information, and this could only be submitted with a signature. There wasnt a requirement to 
add a date. The details provided in the agreement were specific to Ms B and she would be 
the beneficiary of any compensation paid for a successful claim. FTR has also shown an 
audit trail of the application and that the signature was digitally added on their website. So, 
Ive no reason to doubt Ms B signed the LoA.
As outlined above FTRs terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the 
LoA Ms B had agreed to them. FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
I havent seen any evidence to confirm the exact date FTR sent the LoA to H but as H 
wouldnt have accepted any new claims after the August deadline for submitting PPI claims 
had passed, I think FTR must have sent the LoA in August 2019.
From FTRs records I havent seen any contact was made with Ms B before January 2020. 
Their records show they called Ms B about the completion of an LoA and PPI questionnaire. 
Unfortunately, a copy of this call is no longer available. 
FTRs terms and conditions say:
You may cancel Your Claimis) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the
Letter of Authority  Cooling-off Period') at no cost to you, unless you or FTR have received 
a reasonable offer of Compensation within the Cooling-off Period.FTRs record of the call clearly show Ms B didnt accept that shed authorised FTR to act on 
her behalf, saying shed claimed directly with her lenders. I think its clear form these notes 
that Ms B wanted FTR to stop any work they were doing for her. So, Im satisfied Ms B 
cancelled the agreement when this call was made  3 January 2020. And this was after the 
14 day cooling off period.
FTRs terms and conditions go on to say:
No cancellation fee will be charged if you decide to terminate this agreement after the 
cooling off period, however, if you go on to receive an offer from the lender as a result of a 
claim our fee will be due.
FTR said it is this that means their fee is justified. As with the introduction of a deadline for 
making PPI claims being introduced lenders started looking into PPI claims for their 
customers requiring only a data subject access request. And this is what happened here, as 
H began looking into whether Ms B had been mis-sold PPI form the enquiry (LoA) sent by 
FTR  auto conversion. 
But I think Ms B when signing the LoA would have only been agreeing to the free PPI check. 
It would only be after shed been told that PPI had been found that FTR would have been 
authorised by her to provide their claims service  preparing, submitting and negotiating 
your claim. And the fee that would be applied to a successful claim from using FTRs claims 
service. 
I can see messages were sent from FTR to Ms B from 9 January 2020, saying You have 
paid PPI. And it would be from this point that FTRs claims service would have begun. But 
this was after Ms B had told them she didnt authorise them to work for her. So, I dont think 
FTR were authorised to provide their claims service. FTR has confirmed they didnt carry out 
any further work on Ms Bs claim after this call. So, as I dont think FTR were authorised to 
provide their claims service after 3 January 2020. I dont think its fair or reasonable for them 
to ask Ms B to pay their fee for her claim as this was successful after she had cancelled her 
agreement with them.
So I agree with our investigator that FTRs fee should be waived and that FTR should pay 
Ms B £100 for the trouble and upset this has caused. My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim to
waive their success fee and
pay Ms B £100 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman