DRN-1839736
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds service after she 
claimed on her motor insurance policy.
Reference to Acromas includes those acting as agents for it.
Background
Mrs B was on the first part of a two destination holiday in the UK with her husband and their 
dog when they were in an accident that wasn't their fault. Mrs Bs car wasn't repairable. 
Acromas said it would provide a hire car but the cars it offered, under the terms of Mrs Bs 
policy, weren't suitable for their needs. Eventually Acromas provided them with a car in order 
to get them home, but they couldn't go on the second part of their holiday.
Mrs B complained about a number of aspects of Acromas service. Acromas accepted that 
not all of its service was of the standard it would usually expect to offer. So it paid Mrs B 
£300 compensation for the impact of that. I understand it later also reimbursed Mrs B over 
£800 in respect of the part of the holiday she was unable to take.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Bs complaint. She thought that Acromas had 
already done enough to put things right. Mrs B didn't agree so her complaint's been passed 
to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
 
In bringing her complaint Mrs Bs made a number of detailed points. And I've considered 
everything shes said and everything thats happened in its entirety. But, while I've thought 
about everything Mrs Bs told us, I don't intend to address each and every point she's made. 
Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues. 
Mrs Bs been through a horrendous experience. She, her husband and their dog were in a 
traumatic accident that shook them all up. And Mrs B believed Acromas subsequent 
handling of the matter made things far worse than they needed to be. She doesn't think its 
done enough to put things right. Acromas has acknowledged that it could have handled 
things better, but I don't think it was responsible for all the stress Mrs B experienced 
following the accident.
I understand that, given they were away on holiday with lots of luggage, and because of the 
specific needs of their dog, who suffers with anxiety, in order to get around Mrs B needed a 
spacious car to replace the car damaged in the accident. But the terms of her policy only 
entitled her to a small hatchback, which wouldn't have been suitable for them. Mrs B said 
she wasn't aware of this specific policy term until she claimed from Acromas. But, while it 
was certainly extremely unfortunate for Mrs B that she needed a far more spacious car than 
her policy covered her for, I don't think that means Acromas was acting unfairly by applying 
the policy terms.
Mrs B did offer to pay to upgrade the car to a more suitable model. Acromas tried to arrange 
this for her. But neither Mrs B nor her husband had recognised photo identification (ID)  
such as a driving licence or a passport - with them while they were away from home. Thats 
significant because the hire car company weren't initially prepared to provide them with an 
upgraded car without that ID. And it might help if I explain that, as Mrs B would be hiring an 
upgraded car outside the terms of her policy, the hire car companys requirement for photo 
ID wasn't something Acromas had any control over. So Acromas wasn't responsible for any 
delay or issues arising because Mrs B didn't have a form of ID the hire car company would 
accept.
That said I've seen that even without that ID Acromas did manage to secure a car that, while 
not ideal, was big enough for Mrs B, her husband and their dog to travel home in. This 
wasn't something Acromas was required to do under the terms of Mrs Bs policy. But it did 
so in response to Mrs Bs specific needs.
 
Acromas told Mrs B that she could only have that car for two days. That meant she needed 
to go straight home. So she couldn't drive to the second holiday destination or to visit her 
sister who was unwell and recovering from surgery. But I don't think it was Acromas fault 
that Mrs B couldn't continue her holiday. Ill repeat that Mrs Bs policy only entitled her to a 
small hatchback. And had that hatchback been suitable for her needs then Mrs B could have 
continued her holiday including the second leg of the trip. But it wasn't Acromas fault the 
hatchback wasn't suitable for Mrs Bs needs. Similarly it wasn't its fault that Mrs B didn't have 
suitable ID to allow her to secure an upgraded hire car. So I don't think it was fair to say that 
Acromas was to blame for Mrs B having to cancel the second part of her holiday.
That said there were clearly many issues Acromas could have dealt with better. For 
example, amongst other things, it acknowledged that some of its call handlers could have 
been more empathetic and they didn't always give appropriate advice. It also accepted that 
there were issues with the hire car company - acting as Acromas agents - not 
communicating appropriately with Mrs B, not delivering the appropriate car and not doing 
what it said it was going to do. And I understand Mrs B continued to have issues with 
Acromas claims handling once she returned home. Mrs B says that all of these things have 
added to her stress.
Acromas acknowledged that not everything went well and it paid Mrs B £300 compensation 
to address her distress and inconvenience because of that. I understand it later paid her a 
further sum in excess of £800 in respect of her cancelled trip. That isn't something her policy 
entitled her to. But Mrs B clearly doesn't think Acromas has gone anything like far enough to 
put things right. I don't agree.
I appreciate I can't simply step into Mrs Bs shoes to experience the extent of the distress 
she suffered. But, even if I could, I don't think all of her distress was caused by Acromas 
acting unfairly or unreasonably. Instead I think some of it happened because of the very 
unfortunate position she was in following the accident; in terms of being away from home 
and because the hire car her policy entitled her to didn't cover her needs. But that wasn't 
Acromas fault. And I think the redress it paid is reasonable to address the distress and 
inconvenience arising from things it should have handled better. Thats because I think the 
compensation paid is a similar sum to awards we make in cases of similar seriousness. So, 
while I appreciate my decision will most likely disappoint Mrs B, I'm not going to instruct 
Acromas to do anything else. My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman