DRN-3380856
The complaint
Mrs G and Mr S complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc damaged their home after 
they claimed under their home emergency policy for a water leak.
What happened
In January 2021 Mrs G contacted RSA to advise she had a leaking pipe. RSA sent out an 
engineer who isolated the toilet to stop the leak. The next day Mrs G called RSA again to 
say she now had a hole in her ceiling where the cold-water pipe came in after the engineer 
had tried to access the cold-water feed. 
RSA contacted the engineer that had attended who advised that he hadnt accessed the 
ceiling or made any holes and that hed only isolated the toilet. RSA noted that no other 
claims had been logged, or any of its other trades attended, that couldve caused the 
damage Mrs G had reported. The engineer also said hed isolated the toilet from the 
isolation valve at the back of the pan and had no need to access anything through the 
ceiling. 
RSA told Mrs G what the engineer had said. Mrs G said to RSA that the engineer wasnt 
telling the truth because he also went into the attic but she didnt see what hed done up 
there. She said she had a hole in her ceiling that wasnt there before the engineer came out. 
RSA asked the engineer if hed gone in the attic and he said he hadnt. 
Mrs G complained to RSA. It looked into her complaint but said it was unable to uphold it 
because there was no real evidence that the engineer had caused the alleged damage. It 
looked at a photograph provided by Mrs G and thought it unlikely that a plumber/engineer 
wouldve caused the damage. It noted that the damage looked historic as there was 
discoloured plaster and signs of previous attempts to fill the hole. 
Unhappy with the outcome of their complaint to RSA, Mrs G and Mr S complained to this 
service. They said they wanted RSA to reimburse them for the cost of fixing the damage and 
to admit their engineer was at fault. Mrs G and Mr S told our investigator that they had no 
photographs of the bathroom prior to the plumbers attendance. They also said that they 
discovered plaster rubble on the floor that evening after he had left. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. Our 
investigator said there was no conclusive evidence that RSAs engineer caused any 
damage. 
Mrs G and Mr S disagreed with our investigators findings. They said the engineer knows 
what he did and Mrs G said she felt she was being accused of being a liar. 
The complaint was referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide if RSA has treated Mrs G and Mr S fairly and reasonably in the way it has 
handled their complaint, and I have to say that I think it has; Ill explain why. 
For me to uphold this complaint I would have to see some documentary evidence that it was 
RSAs engineer that caused the damage to Mrs G and Mr Ss home. Unfortunately for them, 
it appears theres no such evidence available. I can only look at the facts that exist and 
reach a decision, based on those facts, about what is most likely to have occurred. 
Ive seen that the engineer was only in the house for 20 minutes. During that time he needed 
to identify and isolate the leak. He noted that the toilet was filling constantly, causing 
condensation on the pipework so he isolated it. Mrs G said she heard no power tools in use 
(such as would be necessary to make a hole in the ceiling). She also said there wasnt any 
plaster dust (only rubble) in the bathroom such as could be expected if the engineer had cut 
into the ceiling.  
Ive seen the engineers report too and note that it contains some photographs  all of these 
are of the toilet, feeder pipe and isolator valve. As these were taken contemporaneously, its 
reasonable to assume they were of the areas of the bathroom that the engineer identified 
were causing the problem and also of those areas he worked on. There is no photograph in 
the report of the ceiling. Mrs G has no photographs of the bathroom before the engineer 
attended.
Ive reviewed Mrs Gs photographs of the ceiling from after the engineer attended and would 
agree that the marks on the wall and ceiling look historic in nature. There also appears to be 
some yellowing to the plaster which may mean it couldve become wet. 
So whilst I dont doubt that Mrs G found rubble on the floor later that evening theres no 
evidence  in the form of the length of time on site, the use of power tools or the engineers 
report  that it was caused by the engineer. And if the engineer went into the attic as Mrs G 
says, then its reasonable to assume that it was from there that he accessed the pipe so he 
had no reason to cut a hole in the ceiling. Its possible that the moisture on the pipe caused 
the plaster to come away from around it. 
Without some documentary evidence to support what Mrs G has said Im afraid I cant 
reasonably conclude, on the balance of probabilities that RSA has done anything wrong 
here. Its engineer was only in the house briefly during which time he needed to diagnose 
and attend to the issue at hand. Without any evidence that the engineer actually caused the 
damage Mrs G and Mr S complained about I cant fairly uphold their complaint. That doesnt 
mean I dont believe what Mrs G has said, only that there isnt enough evidence to fairly and 
reasonably uphold her and Mr Ss complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman