DRN-3064351
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car he paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi Capital 
(UK) Plc was forced on him. 
What happened
In December 2016 Mr M entered into a fixed sum loan agreement for a used car. Over the 
subsequent few years Mr M complained about the mis-sale of this loan, the quality of the car 
as well as the affordability of the loan, and the charges that had been applied. These 
complaints were dealt with separately by Hitachi and this service. 
In June 2020 Mr M raised a further complaint with Hitachi. He said he had been forced to 
take the car he eventually bought. In its final response Hitachi said it raised Mr Ms concerns 
with the dealer and individual staff members who dealt with his purchase. It said Mr M wasnt 
forced or pressured into the car he purchased.   
Mr M wasnt satisfied and brought his complaint to this service. Mr M said he was forced into 
buying a used car with high mileage. He said the car is in a very bad state and hes refused 
to pay for it. Mr M said that Hitachi is messing him around and that the dealer took 
advantage of him as he has learning difficulties. He said Hitachi wont write off the debt even 
though he believes the dealer didnt do the right thing. 
Mr M went on to say that the dealer told him to have a particular car and that they would 
choose that car. He said the car he bought had mechanical failings including that it wont 
start and the brakes fail.  
Our investigator said he didnt see a likely scenario where Mr M was unable to leave the 
dealership without entering the agreement. He considered this option was always open to Mr 
M. And that there wasnt enough evidence to say Mr M was forced into taking the car and 
the agreement. The investigator also noted that the complaints relating to the quality of the 
car had been dealt with in a previous complaint. 
Mr M didnt accept this view and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr M but, having done so, I wont be asking 
Hitachi to do anything further. 
Previous complaint
Mr M has previously complained about the mis-sale of this loan, the quality of the car as well 
as the affordability of the loan, and the charges. He has also raised the issues with the 
quality of the car again within this complaint. As these have already been looked at by 
Hitachi and this service, I shant be considering these complaint points further. In this 
decision I shall concentrate my comments on this new complaint point, whether Mr M was 
forced into taking this car through a fixed sum loan. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA)
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) says that a finance provider can be held 
responsible for any antecedent negotiations carried out by the credit broker. In Mr Ms case, 
the dealership acted as Hitachis agent with the fixed sum loan agreement. So, I can 
consider Mr Ms complaint against Hitachi.
Mr M has said he first attended the dealership around October 2016. He said he went back 
in December and that he was told to have certain vehicles, including one which didnt seem 
to be a good vehicle. He said he was presented with a form and asked to sign on the dotted 
line, and was told This is the only car you're having." Mr M thought the dealer was being 
forced to sell the car. He said he wasnt allowed to leave until agreeing.
Ive seen the complaint emails from Mr M to Hitachi. In one email Mr M said the car he 
bought was not the car he wanted. He said he was forced to take the car because the dealer 
knew it wouldnt sell it to other customers. He has also outlined a conversation he said he 
had with the dealership to support his complaint. 
Evidence 
Where evidence is missing, unclear or disputed I must make my decision based on the 
balance of probability, that is, what I believe most likely to have happened. In this case there 
are no direct witnesses to what transpired between Mr M and the dealership during his visit 
in December 2016. Mr M has recorded the event in his email to Hitachi in August 2020, that 
he was forced to have the car and the dealer was aware of Mr Ms learning difficulty and 
used it against him. Its not clear to me if this was a recollection recorded in December 2016 
or in August 2020. Hitachi has confirmed that both the sales manager and executive that 
dealt with Mr M are still employed at the site and have said Mr M was not pressured or 
forced into buying the car. 
The only evidence I can rely on is Mr Ms word against that of the dealership. Ive read 
through the customer contact notes from Hitachi. I can see that Mr M first discussed his 
learning difficulties in September 2017 and frequently after, so while Im satisfied Hitachi was 
aware of these after that date there is no evidence to suggest either Hitachi or the dealership 
was aware of them prior to this. Nor can I see any evidence that either party ought 
reasonably to have been aware of Mr Ms learning difficulties. 
Contact with Hitachi
From the contact notes and emails between Mr M and Hitachi I can see that Mr M is very 
distressed about both the agreement and the car. And he feels like Hitachi and the 
dealership have taken advantage of him. Im very sorry to hear this and Im not disputing Mr 
M when he says this is what happened. But without direct evidence and relying only on one 
partys word against another, especially after some years have passed, Im not persuaded 
this is enough for me to safely conclude that the dealership exerted pressure. Or that it did 
so in order to take advantage of Mr M. Again, Im not disputing Mr Ms version of events, but 
recollections do differ, and I think it more likely Mr M wasnt forced to take the car he bought 
and that he wasnt prevented from leaving the premises until he signed the agreement. So, it 
would not be fair or reasonable for me to hold Hitachi responsible for this. 
I can see from the contact notes that Mr M may be struggling with the repayments and 
Hitachi is aware of this. I would expect Hitachi to act sympathetically and positively under 
these circumstances. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman