DRN-3210203
The complaint
Mr B has complained about his motor insurer One Insurance Limited because he feels it 
handled his accident damage claim poorly which resulted in delays and him having to pay 
storage fees. He was also left without a courtesy car and the policys uninsured driver term 
wasnt honoured, so his excess wasnt refunded.
What happened
Mr B had an accident in August 2019. He wanted his car repaired at a manufacturers 
garage as it was only 18 months old. One Insurance said he could do that but it would have 
to consider the costs, and ultimately it wasnt prepared to pay what Mr Bs garage was 
charging. On 19 September 2019 One Insurance was to take charge of the car for inspection 
and it later was taken to its garage. The car was subsequently written-off, with Mr B being 
told this on 31 October 2019. Mr B received a settlement from One Insurance based on the 
cars market value, net of the policy excess. One Insurance paid for storage fees Mr B had 
incurred from 19 September until the car was moved to its garage.
Mr B felt all storage charges incurred after the first week the car was at his garage should be 
paid by One Insurance  he felt it had delayed in informing him what it would and wouldnt 
pay. Mr B felt he should have had a courtesy car too. Regarding the policy excess, it had 
been accepted Mr B wasnt at fault and that the other driver had been uninsured  but 
One Insurance wouldnt refund his excess. And Mr B felt the claim showing as fault against 
him was also unfair. One Insurance said it hadnt been liable for storage fees before it took 
control of the car on 19 September, and as Mr Bs car was deemed a write-off, it never had 
any liability for providing a courtesy car. One Insurance didnt speak specifically about the 
uninsured driver promise, but advised that with the driver being uninsured it hadnt been able 
to gain an admission of liability from them, which meant the claim was recorded as one of 
fault against Mr B.
When Mr B complained to us our investigator felt that for the period 19 September 2019 until 
31 October 2019, One Insurance should have provided Mr B with a courtesy car. That was 
because, at that time, the car was in One Insurances control and it hadnt been written-off 
yet. He said One Insurance should compensate Mr B for the inconvenience caused by it not 
providing a courtesy car by paying him £200. He didnt otherwise uphold Mr Bs complaint.
One Insurance didnt reply to our investigators view. Mr B said hed been through so much 
as a result of One Insurances delays and failure to provide him with a courtesy car, £200 
wasnt enough. And he said the period should be extended as the car wasnt officially 
written-off, by notice being given to the DVLA, until January 2020. He said all his storage 
fees beyond the first week the car was at his garage should be paid, and the claim record 
amended to show that whilst this was a fault claim, that was due to the other driver being 
uninsured. His complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings of which were:
I agree with our investigator that this complaint should be upheld. But I think One Insurance 
needs to do more than pay Mr B £200. So Im issuing this provisional decision to share my 
views and intended redress with both parties. Theyll then have a chance to respond before 
I make a final decision.
fault claim
Because One Insurance hasnt been able to gain an admission of liability from the other 
driver, this claim is viewed as one of fault against Mr B. It might help if I explain that, in the 
context of an insurance claim, the term fault doesn't mean that the policyholder was to 
blame or somehow caused the incident leading to the claim themselves. Instead it means 
that the insurer has had to pay out on a claim and hasn't received its outlay back from the 
other party or their insurer. And thats the case here.
That said, for the reasons I've described below, One Insurance should be recording the 
claim as NCD allowed, which is seen by most insurers as the same as non-fault.  
uninsured driver promise
I am going to require One Insurance to pay Mr Bs excess amount to him, plus interest*. The 
policy promises a refund of the excess amount where an accident occurs with an uninsured 
driver. And that isnt dependant on an admission of liability from the other driver being 
attained, or on costs being recovered from the same. The only requirement is that its been 
established that the other driver was uninsured  which it has, and that its been determined 
that Mr B wasnt at fault  which One Insurance accepts. For the avoidance of doubt I think 
Mr B being seen as not at fault is a reasonable conclusion. As I understand it, he was driven 
into from behind by the other driver whilst he was sat stationary at traffic lights. So I can see 
no good reason, in light of the policy promise, to allow One Insurance to keep Mr Bs excess 
in this instance. It will have to pay him that, plus interest* from the date of the claim 
settlement until the excess is paid to him.
The promise also says the no claims discount will be protected/restored. Neither Mr B nor 
One Insurance have mentioned the discount in correspondence. So Im not sure whether it 
was initially affected and then restored or not. If it was affected and not restored, then it 
should be. And One Insurance will have to write to Mr B confirming this, also amending the 
industry database to show, as I mentioned above, NCD allowed. If Mr B has incurred extra 
charges on a policy in the meantime then he can use the confirmation from One Insurance to 
ask his current insurer to amend its premium.
storage fees
Mr B wanted to use his own garage. The garage charged for storing the car whilst the repair 
costs were being assessed and negotiated. And I see that as of 19 September 2019 
One Insurance accepted liability for the car and paid storage costs from that point. Mr B has 
accepted liability for the first week of fees, commencing immediately after the accident on 
9 August 2019. So I need to decide who is reasonably liable for the charges incurred 
between 16 August and 18 September 2019 (inclusive).
The accident occurred on a Monday and One Insurances file shows it was notified that 
same day. But then no activity is shown until 13 August when emails from Mr B were 
recorded. Those emails show that Mr B had been asking One Insurance questions and 
trying to communicate with it all week. I see Mr B told One Insurance at that time that he was 
without a car and needed the claim to move forwards swiftly. It was only on the afternoon of 
Sunday 15 August that One Insurance acknowledged the claim.  
However, I see that Mr Bs car was only to be assessed by his garage on 16 August, and 
that same day the garage was advised by One Insurance about what it required in an estimate and where to send it. The estimate was then only received by One Insurance on 
10 September  One Insurance couldnt reasonably have progressed the claim before 
having received the estimate. The estimate was reviewed on 11 September, but Mr B wasnt 
contacted with One Insurances decision on that until 19 September 2019. Once he was he 
agreed for One Insurance to take the car for repair by its garage. I think that would have 
happened on 11 September instead of 19 September, if One Insurance had called Mr B 
when the estimate was reviewed. 
So I think One Insurance should reimburse Mr B a further eight days of storage costs. I see 
from One Insurances file that it paid storage costs to Mr B/the garage from 19 September 
based on £30 per day. For the eight days of delay Ive identified above, thats £240. I think 
Mr B has likely settled the outstanding storage costs with the garage by now. So 
One Insurance should pay Mr B £240 plus interest from the date he paid the garage until 
settlement is made. For One Insurance to pay this award, Mr B will have to show it proof of 
payment for storage costs to the garage. 
courtesy car
The policy says Mr B is not entitled to a courtesy car when he is using his own garage for 
repair, or in the event the car is found to be a total loss. One Insurance thinks it never had 
liability to provide a courtesy car to Mr B because it ultimately settled the claim on the basis 
of the car being a total loss. Mr B thinks he should have been given a courtesy car early on 
in the claim, and that as the DVLA wasnt notified of the write-off until January 2020, he 
should have had the benefit of a courtesy car until then. 
I note that, in respect of a courtesy car, the policy is very clear in respect of when a car wont 
be provided. And the reasonable inference from that is that one will be provided when the 
car is under One Insurances control for repair. 
So I dont think One Insurance can reasonably argue its liability retrospectively like this. It 
wasnt always dealing with this claim as a total loss, so the fact the car was at some stage 
deemed a total loss, doesnt mean it wasnt liable for providing a courtesy car until that 
happened. And the date the DVLA was notified doesnt determine when the car was 
written-off. Rather once an insurer decides a car is a total loss they are under a duty to 
notify the DVLA as soon as possible. But the decision has already been made. Here 
One Insurance made that decision, communicating it to Mr B on 31 October 2019. So, at that 
point, if Mr B had been afforded the benefit of a courtesy car, hed have had to return it to 
One Insurance. So that is the date I think the courtesy car period of entitlement for Mr B, had 
One Insurance been dealing with this fairly, would always have ended.
And One Insurance took control of Mr Bs car on 19 September 2019, with a view to 
repairing it; at that time it was still being considered as a repairable proposition. So I think it 
should have offered him a courtesy car then. Further, Ive said above that if One Insurance 
hadnt delayed matters, it would have taken control of the car on 11 September 2019. So it 
follows that I think that Mr B should have had the benefit of a courtesy car from 
11 September 2019, ending on 31 October 2019.
Mr B told One Insurance in August that he had no other means of transport. Although 
I understand that, at some point, he was able to utilise a car his wife used for business. But 
this meant certain changes to her agreements had to be made with costs being incurred. 
And whilst Mr B had had use of his own car before, he now only had shared use of a car with 
his wife. Mr B should have had use of a courtesy car for 51 days (11 September to 
31 October 2019). Because he didnt, he had a lot of inconvenience, even when he had 
access to his wifes car, and some extra costs. To make up for that I think One Insurance 
should pay Mr B £510. Thats based on this services normal compensation for loss of use of a car of £10 per day. 
We often only make awards based on the full rate where a policyholder has had no access 
to another car when, but for the insurers failure, they should have done. I know Mr B was 
able to use his wifes car at times. But this came with its own difficulties and it still meant 
Mr B was without use of a car fully for himself as he should have been. So I do think that 
payment to Mr B of £510 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
compensation
I can see that Mr B was unhappy with the way One insurance dealt with this claim. And Ive 
accepted that it did fail him in some respects. Which Ive noted and explained above. But Im 
not persuaded it delayed things as much as Mr B has suggested. And nor am I persuaded it 
was unreasonable for One Insurance to record this as a fault claim in the way that it did  
although I am now saying it should amend the NCD record. Ive also already awarded Mr B 
compensation for the associated costs and inconvenience etc caused because he wasnt 
afforded a courtesy car when he should have been. So for the general upset and 
inconvenience Im satisfied One Insurances poor claims handling  some delay and poor 
communication  caused Mr B, I think it should pay him £150 compensation.
Mr B said he was happy with the decision and had nothing to add. One Insurance indicated 
that, in the main it agreed with my findings, but explained it wasnt happy with what Id said 
about non-fault claims.
On that point One Insurance said it will mark the claim to reflect the NCD being allowed, 
because it is protected. But it said it felt it was wrong for me to highlight the idea that NCD 
allowed equates to most insurers as non-fault. It said that was important in this case 
because it is unclear that all the claim costs will be recovered, and in that instance, or at 
least until all costs are recovered, it will be a fault claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand One Insurances concern, but I dont think my comment was unreasonable. 
I say that as the industry databases dont specifically state whether a claim was fault or 
non-fault. Rather they record whether an NCD was allowed or disallowed. 
Having considered the responses, Im not minded to change anything I said provisionally. My 
provisional findings now form part of the findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require One Insurance to:
Pay to Mr B the amount of his excess (which I believe is £150), plus interest* from the 
date the claim was settled until this payment is made.
Restore Mr Bs no claims discount, if this hasnt been done already, write a letter 
confirming this which Mr B can use to send to his current insurer with a view to it 
amending his premium and amend the industry database to show NCD Allowed.
Upon sight of proof from Mr B of his payment to the garage, refund him £240 for storage 
fees, plus interest* from the date Mr B paid the fees until settlement is made.
Pay Mr B £510 as compensation for his loss of use of his car.Pay Mr B £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by its poor claims 
handling.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If One Insurance considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from any interest due to Mr B, it should tell him how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require One Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman