DRN-2939969
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the information provided to credit reference agencies by Oakbrook 
Finance Limited about a loan she took out with them.
What happened
Mrs W took out a loan with Oakbrook in 2018. She agreed to pay back £89.65 for a period of 
24 months.
Due to circumstances entirely outside her control, around 6 months into that period, Mrs W 
found herself unable to make the monthly payments.
Through a debt charity, Mrs W made arrangements with various creditors, including 
Oakbrook, to repay her debts over a longer period making reduced monthly payments. 
Oakbrook agreed that she could pay them £28.55 per month for a period of time, rather than 
the £89.65 set out in the initial contract.
Mrs W has accessed her credit reference file and believes it contains misleading and unfair 
information about the debt. She says shes shown as not making payments and being in 
arrears, despite paying the new agreed amount each month. 
Mrs W complained to Oakbrook, but they said the information theyve provided to the credit 
reference agencies is accurate  and they have a duty to provide accurate information.
Mrs W wasnt happy with that and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Oakbrook had done anything wrong.
Mrs W disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its worth saying at the outset that theres no disagreement at all between Mrs W and 
Oakbrook about what payments shes made to them or what the original loan agreement 
required.
To summarise, Mrs W borrowed a sum of money and agreed to pay it back  at £89.65 per 
month for 24 months. After around six timely full monthly payments, she failed to pay the 
correct amount but very quickly entered into the agreement to pay an affordable £28.55 per 
month for a period of time. 
As far as I can see, Oakbrook havent added interest or charges to the amount owed since 
Mrs W entered that agreement with them. The debt has been reducing by £28.55 per month 
since then.
Oakbrook are under an obligation to provide accurate information to credit reference 
agencies, as they told Mrs W.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO), which is the relevant statutory authority, 
publishes Guidelines on how businesses should report arrears, arrangements and defaults 
to credit reference agencies.
These require data reported to credit reference agencies to be fair, accurate, consistent, 
complete and up-to-date.
They contain the following guidance on debt management programmes, which is what the 
debt charity agreed with Oakbrook on Mrs Ws behalf:
A debt management programme (DMP) is when a third party debt adviser negotiates 
a repayment schedule for all or a number of a consumers credit agreements.
 
If the plan is accepted by the lender, the record filed at the credit reference agencies 
must reflect that the consumer is on a DMP. For such accounts arrears may continue 
to be calculated in accordance with the contracted terms, but the account marked as 
under a DMP.
Ive considered very carefully the information about Mrs Ws loan with Oakbrook which is 
included in her credit reference file.
This sets out the type of agreement (loan), the date the account started, the current balance 
and the current status  which is recorded as 6 months late.
It then says that Mrs W has a debt management programme in place. And the following 
monthly account information shows that Mrs W has been six months or more in arrears for 
around the last two years. But it also shows £28 or £29 (the outstanding amount is rounded) 
coming off the debt every month.
Mrs W has been more than six months in arrears for around the last two years  against the 
original loan agreement. No-one is disputing that. Mrs Ws loan should have been paid off 
entirely in early 2020, but she still owes more than £800. 
And I note that the ICO advice says that arrears may continue to be calculated against the 
contracted terms. So, I cant say its unfair or inaccurate for the debt to be reported in that 
way. 
Any lender reading the file would also be very well aware that Mrs W is under a debt 
management plan  and that shes paying a regular amount every month. So, again, the 
information contained in the credit reference file isnt misleading or unfair to Mrs W. 
And it is in line with the ICO guidance quoted above. Mrs W is clearly shown to be on a debt 
management programme  and to be paying a regular amount every month.
Mrs W has pointed out that some of her other debts arent recorded in the same way. 
However, those debts were sold by the original lender(s) to a debt recovery company. That 
company then entered into an entirely new contract with Mrs W for repayment. And the 
credit reference information provided by them reflects the fact that Mrs W has made monthly 
repayments entirely in line with that new contract.This is not the case with Oakbrook, who are allowing Mrs W to repay the original contracted 
loan, albeit over an extended period of time.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman