DRN-3499546
The complaint
Mrs L complains about the way Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) 
handled the return of a car which she says was not of satisfactory quality.   
What happened
In September 2019 Mrs L entered into a hire purchase agreement for a brand new car. She 
says that she thought the car was under-performing from the outset, but she decided to wait 
until its first service  after 12 months  to see if the issues could be resolved. 
The car did not improve, and Mrs L says she was told there was a problem with the fuel 
pressure sensor pump. By December 2020 further unconnected problems developed.  
Mrs L felt she had little choice but to continue to use the car, but she expressed her 
concerns to VWFS. There was a delay of some weeks in arranging repairs, but Mrs L was 
provided with a courtesy car  albeit of a lesser specification.  
By around December 2020 Mrs L said she had lost confidence in the car. She was 
concerned, amongst other things, what might happen when the manufacturers warranty 
came to an end. VWFS gave Mrs L the option of returning the car and ending the hire 
purchase agreement or continuing with it and receiving compensation. Mrs L elected to end 
the agreement; VWFS said that she would not be liable for any further costs and that it 
would return the advance payment of £1,920 which Mrs L had made at the beginning of the 
agreement. 
The collection agents wanted to collect the car from Mrs L earlier than VWFS had indicated. 
When they did collect the car, a further warning light had become illuminated, so they had to 
send a truck to collect it, rather than driving it away. 
Mrs L complained about the way the ending of the agreement had been handled. She said 
that VWFS had used the terms voluntary termination and rejection interchangeably. That 
was confusing and meant that VWFS did not have to admit the car was faulty. She said too 
that the price obtained for the car was relatively high and that she had therefore lost out as 
result. She had only received a partial refund on, for example, her service plan and gap 
insurance. 
VWFS thought that it had acted fairly, but Mrs L referred the matter to this service, where 
one of our investigators considered what had happened. The investigator took the view 
however that VWFS had done enough to resolve matters and did not recommend that it do 
anything further. Mrs L did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs L says that the car was defective, and it does indeed appear that there were problems 
with it. Because those issues were covered by the warranty, however, no independent report 
was prepared or was necessary. I have however approached this complaint on the basis that 
Mrs Ls concerns about the car were genuine and justified. 
Mrs L says that VWFS used the terms voluntary termination and rejection 
interchangeably. The first is used where a customer elects to an end an agreement early; it 
may require additional payments, depending on the stage at which the agreement is ended. 
The latter generally refers to a right a consumer may have where goods are defective to 
return those goods and end a finance agreement. 
Where this service, in the course of dealing with a complaint about defective goods taken on 
hire purchase, decides that a consumer is entitled to reject those goods, we may include in 
any award a number of different remedies. They might include: the return of any deposit 
paid; a refund of hire payments or a reduction in them; the costs of alternative transport; 
repair costs already paid; and an award for distress or inconvenience. That list is not 
exhaustive and not all remedies will apply in every case. 
Voluntary termination is however subject to a calculation based on the length of the 
agreement and the time it has left to run, together with the frequency and amount of 
payments. That calculation will give a figure which the consumer has to pay to exit the 
agreement  although it may be zero. 
In this case, therefore, the arrangements for ending the agreement have more in common 
with a rejection of the car than with a voluntary termination. 
In my view, however, the term used is less important than the details of that arrangement 
and how they were presented. I am satisfied in this case that VWFS explained clearly what it 
was offering to do to resolve Mrs Ls concerns. In summary, it would take the car back, 
refund the deposit and agree not to take any further payments. That is what happened. I do 
not believe that there has been any impact on Mrs Ls credit file.
I note as well that there were some difficulties in arranging collection of the car. However, 
once Mrs L had agreed that it should be taken back, I do not believe that she could fairly say 
that collection was arranged too soon. 
It may be the case that the car achieved a higher price than expected, and that Mrs L did not 
receive the benefit of that. She did however receive what had been agreed to resolve the 
complaint about the quality of the car. The arrangements that Mrs L made to obtain a 
replacement are not matters for VWFS to consider in the context of the hire purchase 
agreement. 
Finally, Mrs L has complained about refunds to the service plan and gap insurance. As the 
investigator noted, however, they were not financed by VWFS and are matters for Mrs L to 
take up, if at all, with the dealership.    
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman