DRN-4319098
The complaint
Mr G complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax isnt applying strong customer 
authentication correctly meaning his account is at risk.
What happened
Mr G has a credit card account with Halifax.
In May 2023 Mr G says he used his credit card online and was asked to complete strong 
customer authentication. He says all he was asked to do was enter a one-time passcode 
that Halifax sent to his mobile phone and that no other checks were done. He says he was 
concerned about this as he understood that strong customer authentication involved the use 
of two or more independent factors. So, he contacted Halifax for an explanation. He says he 
froze his credit card in the meantime, so that he wouldnt be at risk of fraud.
Mr G says Halifax initially told him that hed been authenticated using his card details and a 
one-time passcode and that these amounted to knowledge and possession factors 
respectively. Mr G wasnt happy with this explanation saying that guidance had been issued 
saying that a customers static card details didnt satisfy the knowledge factor. So, he 
questioned Halifaxs explanation. Mr G says Halifax then said it used one-time passcodes in 
compliance with strong customer authentication and that it was keeping his account secure, 
but that Halifax wouldnt go into any more detail. Mr G wasnt happy with this explanation 
either, so he complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. Following our involvement, Halifax 
accepted that its previous explanations were inadequate and offered £50 in compensation. 
In addition, Halifax said that it was able to authenticate Mr G as hed used a trusted device 
and the one-time passcode it had sent him. Our investigator though that Halifaxs offer was 
fair and reasonable, and recommended that Halifax pay Mr G £50 in full and final settlement 
of his complaint. And that Halifaxs explanation was sufficient.
Mr G was unhappy with our investigator, saying that both of the factors that Halifax and our 
investigator had mentioned were possession factors, so did not satisfy the requirement for 
strong customer authentication. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
So, his complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G doesnt object to strong customer authentication and doesnt have, for example, any 
problems using a mobile phone. His only concern is that Halifax isnt applying strong 
customer authentication properly, and that this means hes at risk of fraud. I can understand 
why Mr G might feel that way, and it hasnt helped that Halifax has given several poor 
explanations about its approach to strong customer authentication. In other words, I agree 
that Halifax could have dealt with this better, and that it could also have given us a better 
explanation sooner too.
Halifax has now given us a better explanation of how it approaches strong customer 
authentication, and Im satisfied based on that explanation that it is applying two separate 
and independent factors. That additional detail is sensitive, so its not detail I can share with 
Mr G, other than to say that I agree with what hes said about the shortcomings of all the 
previous explanations hes been given. I hope that this will give Mr G the assurance that hes 
been seeking, meaning hell feel comfortable using his card again.
Putting things right
Mr G has been caused unnecessary anxiety and inconvenience for which I consider an 
award of £150 would be more appropriate. So, thats the award Im going to make.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and requiring Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to pay Mr G £150 in compensation for the unnecessary anxiety and 
inconvenience hes been caused. This would be in full and final settlement of his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman