DRN-4276050
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) hasnt helped him retrieve
money he lost when his cheque was intercepted.
What happened
Mr L closed his ISA account in November 2021 at which point Nationwide sent him a cheque
for the balance of just over £40,000. Unfortunately, the cheque was intercepted and paid into
an account fraudulently opened in Mr Ls name, at a financial institution I shall refer to as T.
Mr L contacted Nationwide on 30 November 2021 to enquire why he hadnt received his
cheque yet. He was incorrectly told it hadnt been sent yet. Mr L is unhappy as he believes
this incorrect information ultimately resulted in a missed opportunity to prevent the fraud.
Nationwide issued its final response recognising it had given Mr L incorrect information on
the phone call. However, it said no error was made in respect of the actual cheque. It had
issued the cheque in Mr Ls name and paid the cheque correctly.
Mr L remained unhappy as hed lost the value of the cheque, so referred his complaint to our
service.
During the investigation, our investigator was able to contact T and establish that it had
taken steps to freeze the fraudulently opened account on 2 December 2021, as it suspected
something wasnt quite right. So, most of Mr Ls money was safe and being held by it. It told
us that it had ringfenced £39,195.18 and was awaiting an indemnity from Nationwide so it
could be returned.
Our investigator upheld the complaint saying Nationwide should have investigated Mr Ls
concerns a lot sooner as because it didnt, hes been without his funds a lot longer than he
should have been. She therefore recommended Nationwide refund Mr L the amount of the
cheque regardless of the indemnity and pay 8% interest on the money.
Nationwide didnt agree with the view, explaining that it wasnt at fault for Mr L falling victim
to the fraud and therefore wasnt liable to refund him the value of the cheque or the 8%
interest. However, it offered £150 compensation for the fact it could have raised an
indemnity sooner. Nationwide then submitted an indemnity, and the £39,195.18 was
returned to Nationwide and subsequently to Mr L, on 27 February 2023. Nationwide paid Mr
L the difference in the amount totalling £1,487.82 so he received the full amount.
Because Nationwide disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued my provisional decision on the complaint on 24 July 2023. I concluded the following:
Im very sorry to hear Mr L has fallen victim to fraud in this way, I can appreciate this has
caused him a great deal of worry and inconvenience. Im pleased he has now received the
value of his cheque back. Ultimately, it is the fraudsters who are responsible for what Mr L
has gone through here, as they are the ones who intercepted the cheque and opened an
account in his name, which enabled the cheque to be cashed.
However, Ive looked at whether Nationwide could have prevented the fraud at any point. Im
satisfied it paid the cheque correctly. The cheque was written by Nationwide so its main
responsibility in this instance is to ensure the cheque is paid into an account in Mr Ls name
 which it was. It therefore wouldnt be responsible for refunding Mr L under normal
circumstances.
Ive considered the call Mr L had with Nationwide on 30 November 2021. A cheque can be
cancelled up to the point it is presented for payment. Nationwide has provided a copy of the
cheque which shows it was presented to T on 30 November 2021  this is printed on the
back of the cheque. The cheque was then paid on 1 December 2021. Given this, it seems
unlikely that Nationwide would have had time to cancel the cheque when Mr L called it on 30
November 2021. So, while I appreciate Nationwide gave Mr L incorrect information on the
phone call, Im not persuaded the fraud could have been prevented had the correct
information been given.
So, to summarise this aspect of the complaint, Im satisfied Nationwide wasnt responsible
for Mr Ls loss in the first instance and had T not been able to ringfence the money,
Nationwide wouldnt have been liable to refund Mr L the money out of its own pocket.
Moving on though, Ive also looked at what happened after it became apparent that Mr L
hadnt received the cheque and whether Nationwide could have done anything differently.
I understand Nationwide isnt responsible for the fraud and as explained, I wouldnt have
expected it to refund Mr L the money itself when he reported what happened. However, Im
not satisfied it did enough to help Mr L once it became clear he hadnt received his money. It
would only have taken one phone call or email to T in December 2021 for it to become
apparent that luckily, most of Mr Ls money was safe and waiting to be claimed via an
indemnity. This would have been the reasonable action for Nationwide to take to help its
customer. As it was, it took our service intervening and contacting T for Nationwide to raise
the indemnity. Because of this, I think its fair to say Nationwide caused a delay in Mr L
receiving the £39,195.18 back from T and he has therefore lost the use of these funds in this
time. Nationwide should therefore pay 8% on this amount.
I will explain when this should be paid from now. Mr L called to query the cheque on 30
November 2021. Had he been correctly advised at that point; I would have expected to see
Nationwide take some action then, as Mr L was saying he hadnt received the cheque. Its
fair to allow a week for a trace to be done and contact made with T to clarify what had
happened at its end  this would take us to 7 December 2021. Had this been done, it seems
likely T would have confirmed it had blocked the account for suspected application fraud and
most of the money remained to be indemnified. The indemnity could then have been
submitted. It took T 30 days to return the money once the indemnity was raised in January
2023, so its fair an allowance is made for this time as this was out of Nationwides control.
With all this in mind, the starting point for the 8% should be 6 January 2022. It should then
be paid up to 27 February 2023 when Mr L received his money.
I wont be recommending Nationwide pay any further compensation to Mr L beyond the 8%
simple interest as Im satisfied it refunding the shortfall amount of £1,487.82 is sufficient in
this case.
Nationwide responded accepting the provisional decision and provided a figure for the 
interest payment, minus income tax. Mr L responded letting me know that whilst he is comfortable with the settlement, he isnt a 
UK taxpayer and therefore requested for me to ask Nationwide to pay the interest to him 
without deducting the income tax. He explained that he didnt pay tax on his Individual 
Savings Account (ISA) and so does not see a reason Nationwide should withhold the tax. He 
doesnt want the hassle of having to apply for a tax refund due to Nationwides mistake. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It remains, that whilst not responsible for the fraud that happened to Mr L, Nationwide could 
have helped him retrieve his money earlier than it did. Both Mr L and Nationwide agree with 
my provisional decision to this effect, so I see no reason to depart from it.
The only remaining issue is the fact Mr L is unhappy Nationwide has indicated it will be 
deducting income tax from the interest payment. The 8% simple interest payment is to take 
into account Mr L was without the funds he had withdrawn from his ISA, so the fact he didnt 
pay interest on his ISA isnt relevant here. And whilst I appreciate Mr Ls comments, the tax 
deduction isnt something Im able to ask Nationwide to set aside, as it has its own 
obligations to follow when it comes to tax. If Mr L is not a taxpayer, he will be able to reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue and Customs. 
Putting things right
Pay 8% simple interest on the £39,195.18 from 6 January 2022 to 27 February 2023.
If Nationwide considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also
give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint against Nationwide Building Society and 
direct it to carry out the settlement detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman