DRN-3442918
The complaint
Mr M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited avoided his car insurance 
policy (that is, treated it like it never existed) and turned down his claim.
What happened
Mr M took out a car insurance policy with Advantage through a price comparison website. A 
couple of months later, Mr Ms car caught fire and he claimed on his policy. 
Advantage turned down Mr Ms claim, saying hed answered a question about driving 
convictions incorrectly when he took the policy out. Advantage said this was a 
careless/deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation and that, if Mr M had given the 
correct information about his driving conviction at the time, it wouldnt have offered him 
cover. It repaid Mr M his policy premium and treated his policy as if it never existed. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it didnt 
uphold it. He didnt think it was unfair to treat Mr Ms policy as if it never existed. This was 
because our investigator thought Mr M had made a misrepresentation and, if Mr M had given 
the correct information, Advantage wouldnt have offered him cover.
Mr M doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. He says the broker through whom he took the policy out and who administered his 
claim was happy to insure him at the outset but changed its position when he claimed. And 
Mr M disputes our investigators finding that Advantage wouldnt have offered him cover if 
hed given the correct information, saying he has proof the broker offers cover to those with 
the driving conviction he has.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is 
that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies as long as the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether a consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage says Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he disclosed, at the time he took the policy out, that he had a driving conviction called an 
SP30  Exceeding Statutory Speed Limit on a Public Road (with six licence points given). 
When Mr Ms licence details were checked following his claim, it was found that, instead, he 
had a conviction called a CU80  Breach of requirements as to control of the vehicle, mobile 
telephone etc (which also carries six licence points). 
Ive looked at the relevant question Mr M answered on the price comparison site when he 
bought the policy. It asks: Have you committed any driving offences or had any fixed 
penalty notices in the last five years? Once the yes option is chosen, four options are 
given for the type of offence: 
Speeding;
Alcohol or drug related;
Careless driving; and
Other
Once one of these options is chosen, a dropdown box allows a customer to choose the 
correct conviction. In Mr Ms case, his conviction wouldve appeared had he chosen the 
option Other. 
Mr M says he couldnt remember the exact code of his driving conviction. And he says he 
couldnt check online because the address on his driving licence wasnt up-to-date. So Mr M 
says he chose a conviction that carried the same number of points as the one he had.
Looking at everything Ive got, I think Mr M failed to take reasonable care when he answered 
the question about driving convictions on the comparison site. The question was clear and 
specific and the option to choose the conviction Mr M had was available. Although Mr M 
didnt know the specific name of the conviction, he knew its general nature  and that it 
wasnt an SP30. Mr M says he chose the SP30 conviction because it had the same number 
of licence points as his conviction. But insurers can and do assess risk based on the offence, 
rather than the number of points given  and this is what happened here.
So having decided that Mr M failed to take reasonable care, I now need to decide if 
Advantage wouldve done anything differently had Mr M given it the correct information. 
Advantage has given us an extract of its underwriting criteria. This shows that, if Mr M had 
disclosed his CU 80 driving conviction, he wouldnt have been given a quote for cover. This 
means Im satisfied Mr Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Mr M says he made a genuine mistake and didnt intend deliberately to mislead the insurer. 
Because Mr M disclosed a conviction that carried the same number of licence points as the 
one he knew he had, on balance, I think his misrepresentation was careless  rather than 
reckless or deliberate.
As I think Mr Ms misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the actions 
Advantage can take in accordance with CIDRA. And I think Advantage was entitled to avoid 
Mr Ms policy in accordance with CIDRA. This means that  in effect  his policy never 
existed, and so Advantage doesnt have to deal with his claim following his car catching fire. 
As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Advantage to rely on it to avoid Mr Ms policy is the fair and reasonable outcome in 
this complaint.
Mr M strongly believes the broker through whom he got the cover on the comparison site 
wouldve offered him a policy if hed given his correct driving conviction. Mr M has given us recent video footage and screenshots showing it offers this cover  though with different 
insurers. But from the underwriting criteria Ive seen, Im satisfied Advantage wouldnt have 
offered Mr M cover if hed disclosed his CU80 driving conviction when he took the policy out. 
And so the information Mr M has sent us on this point doesnt change my findings on his 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman