DRN-2926590
The complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC did not fairly compensate him for mis-selling payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to him. 
What happened
In September 2020, Lloyds agreed with Mr J that it had mis-sold PPI to him alongside a buy 
to let mortgage. It offered to compensate him for that mis-sale. 
When making its offer to Mr J, Lloyds said that due to the length of time that had passed 
since PPI was sold, it no longer had all the records to show what he had paid for the policy. 
It knew when the mortgage had been taken out, so it assumed PPI had been sold at the 
same time. It said it had assumed Mr Js last PPI premium had been paid in October 2003. 
Lloyds offered to refund £525 to Mr J, which is the amount it says he paid in premiums 
during that time. It also offered to pay a further £737.79 to Mr J to compensate him for the 
time he had been out of pocket because of the PPI policy. After deducting some income tax, 
Lloyds paid Mr J £1,115.23 in compensation. 
Mr J did not think Lloyds offer of compensation was fair. He complained to this service. He 
said he had paid for PPI for 14 years, which was as long as he had the mortgage with 
Lloyds. He said he had always paid the same amount from the same bank account for his 
mortgage, which must mean PPI was included with his monthly mortgage payment.   
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and thought Lloydss offer of compensation was fair. In 
summary, she said Lloyds had assumed Mr Js PPI policy had started at the same time as 
he took out his mortgage. She also said that Lloyds had provided evidence to show that no 
PPI premiums were paid in or after November 2003. So it had assumed Mr J paid his last 
premium in October 2003. 
Mr J did not accept that view. He said that his bank statements showed he had paid for PPI 
for 13 years and nine months, and that this was deducted from his bank account as one 
payment each month. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered all of the issues Mr J raised. Im sorry to disappoint him, but I 
havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
How many PPI premiums did Mr J pay? 
It is not in dispute that Mr J took his mortgage out in 2002, and that mortgage was redeemed 
in 2016. 
I know Mr J is adamant that his monthly mortgage repayments included an element of PPI, 
and I accept that what he told us is what he honestly believes to have occurred. But Im 
afraid I dont agree with Mr Js interpretation of what happened. What I would expect to 
happen when this type of Lloyds PPI policy was sold is that a separate direct debit mandate 
would be completed, and the PPI would be paid for separately to the mortgage. Im afraid it 
wouldnt be incorporated into the monthly mortgage repayment as Mr J believes. 
I appreciate Mr J says he has bank statements which show he had a PPI policy. I have seen 
some of those statements that he sent to Lloyds. But having considered those documents, I 
think they show his monthly mortgage repayments being debited every month. Im sorry to 
say that this does not show that Mr J paid for PPI for the entirety of the mortgage. 
There is so little information about the premiums Mr J paid, which isnt unusual given how 
long ago the PPI was sold. But I think it was fair for Lloyds to assume Mr J was sold cover at 
the same time as he took the mortgage out. Lloyds electronic information also shows that 
Mr J did not pay for PPI from November 2003 onwards. So I think it was also fair for Lloyds 
to assume that the final PPI premium was paid in October 2003. That means Im satisfied it 
was fair for Lloyds compensation offer to be based on Mr J paying 14 PPI premiums of 
£37.50. 
Was Lloydss offer of compensation fair? 
Where PPI has been mis-sold, in so far as it is possible, I would expect the business that 
sold the PPI to return the consumer to the position theyd be in if PPI had never been sold in 
the first place. For policies like Mr Js, Id expect the business to refund all of the premiums 
paid, and pay 8% simple interest on the cost of those premiums from when he paid for them 
until the date he gets that money back. 
In this case, I can see that Lloyds calculated Mr J paid £525 for the PPI. It then calculated 
simple interest on the cost of those premiums to be £737.79. Lloyds is then required to 
deduct 20% in tax from that interest, and I can see it deducted £147.56. That means its 
compensation offer is £1,115.23. 
Lloyds has taken the steps I would expect it to take in Mr Js case. It follows then that Im 
satisfied it fairly compensated Mr J for mis-selling PPI to him. I am sorry to disappoint Mr J, 
but Im afraid I havent upheld his complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman