DRN-3852147
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc wont fully refund transactions he says he didnt 
make. Hed like the full amount refunded.
What happened
Mr D has appointed representatives for this complaint, but for ease of reading Ill refer solely 
to Mr D.
Mr D holds an account with Bank of Scotland (BoS). In 2019 he agreed to give his son some 
money to start up a business. His son set up online banking to help do so, with Mr D 
believing only a single transaction would be made. 
But in November 2021 Mr D discovered that his son had transferred out considerably more 
than expected from his account. He confronted his son, who admitted taking the money but 
promised to stop. But he didnt, and more funds were taken from January 2022. Mr D then 
reported the theft to BoS in April 2022. 
BoS took the decision to refund all the disputed payments on Mr Ds account from November 
2021 until April 2022. But they declined to refund any others, saying that he had allowed his 
son to transact on the account. When he realised his son was carrying out more than 
expected he should have notified the bank to help keep his account secure. As he didnt 
raise his concerns at the time, they wouldnt offer a full refund.
Unhappy with this answer Mr D referred the complaint to our service, but our investigator 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. They explained that the regulations say disputed 
transactions should be reported without undue delay. As Mr D had waited six months to 
report the transactions, they felt BoS had acted fairly in declining to refund the full amount.
Mr D disagreed. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt appear to much dispute about the actual events that occurred  that Mr Ds 
son has taken money from Mr Ds account that he didnt agree to. So, this decision will 
mostly consider what BoS liability should be in all this.
The relevant regulations in relation to payment disputes are the Payments Services 
Regulations 2017. The regulations outline how payments should be authorised and agreed 
to for a bank to debit an account. They also explain what entitlement a consumer has to a 
refund if payments are made from their account without their authorisation.
Section 74 says that a consumer of a bank is only entitled to a refund of unauthorised 
transactions if they notify the bank without undue delay, and in any event no later than 13 
months after the debit date, on becoming aware of any unauthorised or incorrectly executed 
payment transaction. 
The terms of Mr Ds account state that he should let BoS know as soon as possible if he 
thinks someone else can access his accounts without his permission or knows his security 
details.
Mr D was aware his son had been accessing his account and taking money in November 
2021. So, the expectation from the regulations and the terms of his account would be that 
hed report it at the time so that BoS could investigate. But he didnt. 
Mr D has said that he wasnt aware of the full amount that had been taken at the time and 
wanted it to be dealt with between the family. But had it been reported BoS could have taken 
steps to prevent any further loss  such as removing the online access. But as this didnt 
happen, more money was taken.
I cant see a reasonable justification for not reporting the fraud in November 2021. As such 
there was an undue delay in reporting the transactions, so its not unreasonable for BoS to 
decline to refund the transactions before then.
BoS have refunded the later losses between November 2021 and April 2022, which is more 
than fair. I dont see this as something they would have been obliged to do. I appreciate this 
will have been a difficult experience for Mr D, and Im sorry to hear of his ill health. But BoS 
havent been unreasonable in how theyve handled his dispute. So, Im not asking them to 
do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman