DRN-4079376
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from Aviva Insurance Limited after his boiler 
broke.
What happened
Mr M held boiler cover, which is underwritten by Aviva. The policy that is relevant to this 
complaint commenced on 25 February 2022 although Mr M had held a policy with Aviva 
since 2018.
In January 2023, Mr Ms boiler began to experience problems and was deemed to be 
beyond economic repair (BER). So, he asked Aviva to replace the boiler in line with the 
policy terms and conditions.
Aviva instructed a supplier to provide a quotation for the cost of replacing and installing Mr 
Ms boiler. This quotation was sent to Mr M and he was asked to make payment of £1589, 
which Aviva said comprised the installation costs.
Mr M disputed the fairness of the quotation he received. He said he should be entitled to 
choose which company installed the boiler and that, in having to use Avivas supplier, he 
was forced to pay higher installation costs. He thought that was unreasonable and 
complained.
When Aviva responded to Mr Ms complaint, it didnt uphold it. It explained that the policy 
terms required it source and replace a boiler of 7 years or older via its approved installer. It 
also stated that, while it would cover the cost of the boiler, Mr M was responsible for meeting 
the installation costs. And it said the costs hed been asked to pay were in line with the 
policy.
Being dissatisfied with Avivas response to his complaint Mr M referred it to our service. Our 
investigator assessed the information provided but didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. They were persuaded that Aviva had dealt with this complaint fairly and acted in 
line with the policy terms, which they thought were clear and reasonable.
Aviva agreed with our investigators assessment of this complaint. But Mr M didnt and 
requested an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service assesses complaints independently within a fair and reasonable remit  we dont 
act for either a consumer or a business. And I want to assure Mr M and Aviva that, in 
considering this complaint, I thought very carefully about what happened here.  
My role is to assess whether I think Aviva made a mistake, or treated Mr M unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. I can see Mr M and Aviva have gone to some trouble to 
provide our service with some detailed points about this complaint. I want to assure them 
that Ive read everything theyve sent us. But I hope theyll understand if I dont address 
every comment theyve made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is 
key to this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr Ms boiler wasnt working, which led to it being deemed to be 
BER. Mr M accepts that his boiler couldnt be repaired cost effectively and hes told our 
service he accepts that the decision to deem it BER was fair and expected having had the 
boiler for a very long time.
Here theres a dispute between Mr M and Aviva about how the claim to replace the boiler 
should have been handled and the correct outcome of this claim. And, in determining 
whether Aviva acted fairly in asking Mr M to pay £1589 towards the installation costs of his 
boiler, Ive carefully considered the policy terms and conditions. 
Aviva had a responsibility to provide information about its policy in a clear, fair and 
unambiguous manner so Mr M could make an informed decision on whether the policy was 
suitable. The responsibility for ensuring he had the cover he required rested on Mr M.
Aviva issues policy documentation to a policyholder once a policy has been purchased or 
prior to it being renewed. This documentation includes, amongst other things, a policy 
schedule and the terms and conditions. 
As Ive previously mentioned, Mr M was insured with Aviva for boiler cover since 2018 and 
the terms were provided to him prior to each policy renewal. The most recent policy 
documentation issued to Mr M is dated 28 January 2022, which was around a month before 
his policy renewed.
Mr M hasnt told our service he didnt receive policy documentation from Aviva and Ive seen 
copies of the documents he was sent prior to each policy renewal. The terms of the policy 
have been the same since 2019, which was when they changed to be more in favour of a 
policyholder with an older boiler. 
As Im satisfied Mr M received the policy renewal information each year, I think he ought to 
have been aware of the policy terms. Im also persuaded hed have had ample opportunity 
to review the terms relating to how a boiler replacement would be dealt with.
In its renewal documentation, Aviva encourages a policyholder to check the cover meets 
their needs. It also invites a policyholder to compare cover with other insurers and offers 
them a cancellation period within which the policy can be cancelled without penalty. This is 
what Id expect.
In assessing whether the information Aviva provided was presented in a way that was clear, 
fair and unambiguous I can see that the policy renewal invitation Mr M received is a 24 page 
document. This invitation incorporates the policy terms. So, the document provides a clear 
and self-explanatory summary of the level of cover a policyholder has taken out and the way 
in which Aviva will deal with a claim for a boiler replacement where the boiler is BER. 
Where a boiler is determined to be BER, the terms state that Aviva will:source, replace and install a new boiler. If it is 7 years old or older we will source and 
replace your boiler through our approved installer and you will be required to pay the 
installation cost. A survey will be completed and an individual quotation will be provided.
The terms set out in clear, intelligible language and unambiguous terms that Aviva will 
choose the installer, which will be a company on its approved list. Its also made clear that, 
to benefit from a free replacement boiler, the policyholder will have to pay the installation 
costs. 
Based on the evidence available, Im satisfied that Aviva approached one of its approved 
suppliers to ask it to replace and instal a new boiler. So, it complied with the policy terms 
about who it can use to assist it in dealing with a claim.
Mr M suggests the policy is ambiguous regarding whose installation costs a policyholder 
must pay. But, on the basis that Aviva is entitled to use an approved installer, a common 
sense approach suggests its the approved installers installation costs that a policyholder 
must meet.
Ive clarified with Aviva that the quotation it shared with Mr M required him to pay for only 
the boiler installation costs. I can see there are several costs itemised and Im satisfied the 
discounts applied at the end properly take into account that the cost of the boiler is met by 
Aviva. This mean I dont think Aviva made an error when it asked Mr M to pay £1589.
Based on the evidence available to our service, Im satisfied Aviva presented Mr M with clear 
information about its obligations to replace a boiler deemed to be BER and the costs 
associated with the boiler installation which hed be required to pay. It acted reasonably and 
in line with the policy terms in offering Mr M a free replacement boiler provided he pay the 
cost of its installation. It follows that Im not upholding this complaint.
I realise Mr M will be disappointed with this decision. But this now brings to an end what we, 
in trying to resolve his dispute with Aviva informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help 
Mr M any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman