DRN-3233992
The complaint
N is a nursery school that fell victim to whats commonly known as an invoice intercept 
scam. It complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt refunded its loss to that scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties and so I wont set out 
extensive detail here. The relevant points are:
N was engaged in legitimate contact with a supplier about works being carried out on 
site. An invoice was expected.
Fraudsters managed to hack into Ns email system and began to send fraudulent 
messages. 
The fraudsters contacted Ns treasurer, posing as the head of the nursery, and 
instructed him to make a payment of £7,200 to a specified payee. An invoice was 
included along with bank details.
The treasurer went to make the payment but discovered the supplier referred to in 
the emails wasnt registered with Companies House, and the recipient account was 
a personal one.
The treasurer flagged these points to the nursery manager, asking if she was sure 
the payment was legitimate.
The fraudster received this message and tailored a reply, confirming payment should 
go ahead, again posing as the nursery manager.
The treasurer made the payment, reassured by the confirmation from what appeared 
to be the nursery manager. Across all correspondence, the genuine nursery 
managers email address had been used.
The scam was reported the day after payment, when the nursery manager realised 
what had happened.
HSBC didnt seek to recover the money for a few weeks, where it ought to have done 
so immediately. Its paid £325 in compensation for this delay in addition to problems 
experienced by N in getting through on HSBCs busy phonelines. But none of the 
money was recovered from the recipient account.
HSBC is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards CRM Code. HSBC 
considered its obligations to refund N but declined to do so. It said the treasurer was 
at fault for not doing more to check the payee. HSBC said the payment was made 
on Ns behalf without a reasonable basis of belief, an exception to reimbursement 
under the Code.
N referred its complaint to our service and one of our investigators upheld it. She felt 
the treasurer did have a reasonable basis for belief, taking into account all the 
circumstances of the scam. And so she found HSBC hadnt acted fairly in declining 
Ns claim under the CRM Code and recommended HSBC compensate N by 
refunding the loss. She said it ought also add an interest payment calculated at 8% 
simple per year from the date the claim was declined to the date of settlement.
HSBC didnt agree and so the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive discussed this complaint at some length with HSBC and Ive explained my reasons for 
upholding it. So theres no need for me to go into great detail here, even though it hasnt 
agreed with what Ive said so far. 
Im satisfied HSBC ought to have reimbursed Ns losses at the point it considered the scam 
claim under the CRM Code. And so its fair and reasonable that the bank pay compensation 
to that effect now, along with the interest payment recommended by our investigator.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  HSBC says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case. It says the treasurer  on behalf of N  didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing he was dealing with a legitimate invoice or payee. The bank 
says its clear he had concerns and ought to have done more, in his role as treasurer.
Essentially this complaint comes down to whether the treasurer did enough once he realised 
there were some details about the payee that didnt add up. HSBC thinks he didnt, but I 
disagree.
The treasurer reached out to the person within N that ought to have been able to confidently 
answer his questions about who was to be paid. He knew the work being invoiced was being 
discussed with suppliers. And the invoice itself looked genuine. Most importantly, he could 
see that the invoice and instruction to pay had come from the nursery managers genuine 
email address. And the same was true of the confirmation to proceed.
Its fair to say that most people will trust emails they receive from what appear to be entirely 
legitimate sources. Thats particularly true if they arent aware of, or alerted to, the dangers 
and features of invoice intercept scams. Theres no suggestion here that HSBC provided any 
such warnings. And so the treasurer proceeded with an understandable and reasonable 
belief that he was following legitimate instructions from the nursery manager to pay a 
legitimate supplier.
This isnt to say there were no more checks that could have been carried out. But that is not 
the test here. Its whether the basis of belief in proceeding was reasonable. And Im satisfied 
it was.
In terms of the recovery of funds, its clear the bank didnt act as quickly as it ought to have 
done. It should have started attempts to recover the money immediately and there doesnt 
seem to be a valid reason for the delays. 
Its unclear whether quicker action would have made a difference here. The money might 
well have been removed from the receiving account almost instantly, as if often the case with 
scams like this. But as N is now receiving a full refund its not really necessary for further 
investigation to take place here. N is to be fairly compensated for HSBCs delay by way of 
the £325 in compensation and the 8% interest payment.
I find the rate of 8% to be fair for the interest award as N clearly had a defined purpose for 
the money and has had to adjust its finances to cope. 
Putting things right
HSBC should now:
refund the £7,200 lost to the scam;pay interest at 8% simple on that amount, from the date it declined the claim to the 
date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman