DRN-4442185
The complaint
Mr A complains that Intern Partner Assistance SA (Inter) took two and a half hours to attend
when his car broke down, under his roadside assistance policy.
What happened
Mr As car broke down whilst he was driving on the motorway. He contacted Inter at around
12.30pm and it contacted a recovery agent to assist. Mr A says Inters agent called and told
him it was too far for it to attend. A second agent called, but couldnt attend until after
3.15pm, which Mr A didnt think was acceptable.
Mr A says a third agent arrived at around 3pm. He says prior to this the police advised him
and his wife to stand under a nearby bridge. They provided blankets as they were both very
cold. He says hes elderly and was suffering from a severe cold. His wife also has health
concerns, which means she doesnt cope well with being cold. He says this experience
made them both ill.
Inter says it didnt provide a final response letter as it thought the complaint had been settled
when it spoke to Mr A over the phone. It offered him £50 for the inconvenience.
Mr A didnt think Inter had treated him fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She says Inter had managed Mr As expectations
regarding call out times and had offered fair compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2023. Heres what I said:
provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to uphold Mr As complaint. Let me explain.
Mr A says the breakdown occurred on a different part of the motorway than Inter had
referred to when they discussed his complaint. I can see from the records Inter provided that
a note was made at 1.41pm on the day of the breakdown. The note says:
[Recovery Agent] have sent a driver to original location given, and hes not there. Cust is on
[motorway 1] heading onto [motorway 2], corrected and redeployed.
Based on this a recovery agent attended the scene where it was thought Mr As car had
broken down. This was just over an hour after he reported the incident. But he wasnt there.
I asked Inter to provide a copy of the call recording when Mr A first contacted it following the
breakdown and the other calls where he spoke to its recovery agents. I also asked it to show
where Mr As car was recovered from and where hed reported this had happened.
Inter responded to say it wasnt able to provide records of where the recovery took place or
where Mr As car was originally thought to have broken down. However, it was able to
provide several call recordings of the conversations between Mr A and its recovery agents.
Ive listened to these calls.
A recording timed at 12.36pm is when Mr A first called through to Inter. He was clearly upset
and mentions attempts to try and fill in Inters forms. The agent says he will have to end the
call if Mr A continues to shout. Mr A then provides information hes asked about the
breakdown. He confirms the passenger side front tyre has a puncture and says he is on the
motorway 100 yards down from the junction with the connecting motorway heading
southwest.
Inters agent puts the call on hold to identify where Mr A is likely to be located from the
information he provided. He returns to the call and says he looks to be at junction 7 to 8
southbound on the motorway. Inters agent say he will try to expedite the recovery as Mr A
confirmed he felt unsafe. He says the expected wait time is between zero and two hours. He
asks if there are any special circumstances. Mr A replies no.
During the next call at 1.17pm Mr A says hes been called by a recovery agent calling from a
location that is miles away. Inters agent puts the call on hold and connects with the recovery
agent. Hes told the job had been redeployed to someone closer to Mr A. Inters agent says
its mapping software had allocated the job to the closest agent. Mr A raises concerns at the
time taken to arrange a recovery so far. The agent says it wont take another 45 minutes for
the next recovery agent to make contact.
Mr A calls again at 1.47pm. Hes told the estimated arrival time for the recovery agent is
showing as 3.12pm. Mr A becomes upset. Inters agent says he agrees with him that the
recovery time is too long, and says hell escalate to its customer service team.
Mr A calls back at 2.05pm to ask for an update. The agent says the matter has been passed
to the customer service team. Mr A says he has contacted the recovery agent and was told it
would take three hours. The agent says that Inter is trying to allocate a different recovery
agent.
No further call recordings have been provided. However, a record timed at 2.11pm on the
day of the breakdown says Inters recovery agent had spoken to Mr A and that hed been
verbally abusive. As a result, the agent advised it wouldnt be attending. The note says the
matter had been, Redeployed to the next closest op. There are no further relevant notes in
the records provided other than a reference to Inter being asked to authorise the miles. My
understanding is that this relates to the distance involved in recovering Mr A, his wife, and
his car to a relevant destination.
Mr A hasnt complained about what happened once the recovery agent attended. So, I
havent considered this. His complaint is about the time the recovery took to happen and the
standard of service he received whilst waiting.
Ive read Mr As policy booklet to see what is expected to happen when a breakdown occurs.
I cant see that it specifies a timeframe within which Mr A should expect to receive
assistance. However, we do expect that Inter will provide an effective service and arrange
for a recovery agent to attend in as short a time as possible.Based on the records a recovery agent did attend in just over an hour. But this wasnt at the
correct location. Mr A told inters agent during his first call that he was on the motorway
about 100 yards down from the junction with the motorway hed just exited. Mr A was upset
and shouted at the agent during the initial call. I dont think this was helpful when the agent
was trying to ascertain what assistance Mr A required and where hed broken down. But I
think Mr A did give enough information to reasonably allow a recovery agent to locate him.
Inters agent said that based on what Mr A had said this was coming up at junction 7 to 8 on
the motorway hed specified. Ive checked this location. Its about 30 miles from the location
where Mr A says hed broken down. In the initial call Mr A told Inters agent he could see a
sign that confirmed the closest town to where he was. This was about three miles away. Mr
A said he didnt know that it was junction 7 to 8. Its clear that he was relying on what the
agent was telling him in relation to the junction number. But as discussed, I think the
information Mr A provided should reasonably have allowed Inters agent to send a recovery
agent to the correct location.
I can understand why Mr A was frustrated when he was told it was too far for one of the
recovery agents to travel, and that another couldnt attend until after 3.15pm. Inter said the
first agent didnt attend because of the volume of call outs. This was in its email to Mr A
dated 30 January 2023. I acknowledge Mr As point that this differs to his recollection from
the conversation he had with the recovery agent.
Based on the call recordings the first recovery was arranged at the wrong location. It wasnt
until 1.17pm that a more local recovery agent was assigned. This caused a delay of around
45 minutes. Inter was then reliant on the availability of recovery agents in the area. It took
until around 3pm before Mr A and his wife were recovered from the motorway.
Mr A explained that he felt he was in a dangerous position, as his car had broken down on
the motorway. I cant see that he told Inters agents that he and his wife are elderly or alerted
it to their health issues. Although Inters agent did ask if there were any other considerations
he should know about. The agents said they would attempt to expedite the recovery, which
involved contact with Inters customer service team. I think this was reasonable. But I cant
see that this helped, given the expected waiting time was up to two hours without it being
expedited.
In its submissions to our service Inter explains that a job is assigned to the nearest recovery
agent, if they cant attend then its assigned to the next nearest. Based on the evidence
provided the delay in attending was due to availability in the area. Once the initial mistake
with the breakdown location had been corrected. However, I note one recovery agent
refused to attend as it felt Mr A had been abusive when it called him.
Having considered all of this, I think Inter couldve arranged a quicker recovery had its agent
not made a mistake initially with the location of the breakdown. This delayed the allocation of
a suitable recovery agent by around 45 minutes. Overall, it took around two and a half hours
for a recovery agent to attend Mr As breakdown. This was distressing and frustrating for Mr
A and his wife as they were stood in the cold, on the side of a motorway. To acknowledge
this, I think a payment of £100 is fair. If Inter hasnt already paid Mr A the £50 compensation
it offered, it should also ensure this is provided.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr As complaint and Inter should pay him £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
I asked both parties to provide any further comments or information they would like me to 
consider before I issued a final decision. Both Mr A and Inter responded to say they accepted my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has submitted further comments or information for me to consider, I can see 
no reason to alter my decision. 
My provisional decision will now become my final decision for the reasons already explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Inter Partner Assistance SA should:
pay Mr A £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman