DRN-2518144
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc incorrectly displayed points on his account. 
What happened
In July 2020 Mr S checked his online banking profile and saw he had around 308,000 points 
due to expire on his credit card. He wanted to use them for air miles, and so checked when 
they could be redeemed with an advisor through his online banking chat facility. He was told 
he could redeem the points in five days, and so purchased more points with an airline to 
make up the difference to buy a holiday. 
Mr S was later told that in fact, he only had 309/309 points as the decimal point wasnt 
showing on his online banking profile due to a system error. This meant he couldnt afford 
the holiday he had planned.
 
Mr S says he experienced financial loss due to spending more with the airline. He would like 
HSBC to pay him the monetary equivalent of the points he purchased. 
HSBC apologised for the error and offered Mr S £50 for the inconvenience caused. They 
asked him to provide information about any financial loss incurred, and while Mr S said he 
had spent in the region of £1,000 on points, evidence of this was never provided. 
Mr S also complained about the service he received from HSBC, and information he was 
given in August when he spoke with an advisor about his points. Mr S was told he had 4,114 
points available to spend, when in fact, a recent refund from a retailer meant that 2,114 
points had actually been deducted. HSBC apologised and explained that while Mr S was 
only discussing the available points on his card, the advisor should have made him aware 
that receiving a refund would mean that points are deducted. 
He was also unhappy with how HSBC had handled his complaints.
 
HSBC looked into all of Mr Ss concerns and offered another £50, bringing their total offer to 
£100. They also gave Mr S 29,000 points as a gesture of goodwill  15,000 in September 
and a further 14,000 in November.
  
Our investigator explained that she wouldnt be able to look into the complaint handling 
elements of Mr Ss complaint, as this isnt something our service can investigate. But she did 
give her thoughts on Mr Ss complaints about HSBC incorrectly displaying his points.
 
She explained that as one point was equal to £1, Mr S would have needed to have spent 
around £300,000 to have the 308,000 points showing on his online banking screen. As his 
account balance was less than this, she felt Mr S should have been aware that there may an 
error. 
She also explained that when Mr S asked through the online portal when he could redeem 
his points, he didnt ask them to check the amount, only when he could use them. Because 
of this, the advisor wouldnt have needed to check whether the amount of was correct. 
Regarding Mr Ss request for HSBC to reimburse the monetary equivalent of the extra points 
he purchased, our investigator explained that as Mr S has never provided anything to show 
this, she wouldnt be asking HSBC to do anything further. 
Our investigator was also of the opinion that HSBC had acted correctly after giving Mr S the 
wrong information regarding his points during his call in August. She was satisfied that what 
theyd offered overall was fair. 
Mr S didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked over everything, I think HSBC have acted fairly. Ill explain why.
 
When Mr S checked his account, he saw that he had around 380,000 points. He spoke with 
someone through his online chat facility who advised that the points could be redeemed 
within five days. During this chat, Mr S didnt ask the adviser whether or not the number of 
points was correct, so I can understand why he wasnt made aware of the mistake at this 
time.
 
This doesnt mean to say that HSBC hasnt done anything wrong. The wrong number was 
displaying on the account, leading Mr S to believe he had many more points than he actually 
did. This meant that he bought more points with an airline in order to purchase a holiday  
but was then told he only had 308/309 points. 
HSBC have apologised for this error. They asked Mr S to provide information showing his 
financial loss, however this was never received. Because of this, they offered Mr S £50 for 
the inconvenience caused to him.
 
I think this is fair. As Mr S hasnt provided anything to show how much he spent on the 
additional points, Im not able to ask HSBC to cover this cost. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss credit card also state that 1 point is equal to £1, so on 
seeing his balance, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr S to have questioned the 
points that were showing.
In relation to Mr Ss further complaint points regarding his phone call in August, I can see 
HSBC apologised and offered another £50 for the confusion caused. I can also see that 
29,000 points have also been given as a goodwill gesture, and again, I think this is fair. 
I note Mr S was also unhappy with how his complaint was handled, but as our investigator 
explained, this isnt something we can look into at the ombudsman service.
 
Overall, I think there has been a lot of confusion over the points available to Mr S and I can 
see why he has become frustrated. However I do think the offer of £100 in total made by 
HSBC, along with the additional points is fair, meaning I wont be asking HSBC to pay 
anything further.   My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman