DRN-2566958
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a claim he made under his 
furniture warranty policy for damage to his sofa. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The warranty policy does not cover stains or damage that is consistent with wear and 
tear or anything that happens gradually. 
Ageas sent out a technician to inspect the damage to Mr S sofa. They concluded the 
damage was due to a build up of body oils over time, which has affected the seal on 
the leather. The damage to the sofa is in areas where contact would be made with 
hands, arms and legs.  
The technician performed a rub test, as I would have expected him to do, to test if the 
leather was losing colour due to dye transfer. The rub test confirmed this wasnt the 
case.
Without any evidence, of a similar standing, to the contrary, Im persuaded by the 
findings of the technician. The damage to the sofa isnt covered by the warranty 
policy as it is, more likely than not, something that has happened over time.
Im unable to comment on what Mr S was told when he purchased the policy, this is 
something he would have to take up with the seller of it. Similarly, while I appreciate 
the damage has happened within a few years of him purchasing the sofa. Again, the 
fact he says he was provided assurances of its quality and durability, is something he 
would have to take up with the seller of the sofa.  
The warranty policy will only respond in particular circumstances. I think Ageas acted 
fairly, and in line with the policy terms and conditions, when it declined Mr S claim.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr S complaint against Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman