DRN-3770880
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland (BOS) took money from his bank account.
What happened
Mr H had a current account with BOS. On 4 February 2020, BOS deducted £12,319.46 from 
his account and paid it to the Child Maintenance Group (CMG). On 12 March 2020, this 
amount was refunded and BOS deducted £10,665.46 from his account and paid it to CMG. 
Mr H complained. He said BOS had no right to take the money from his account without a 
court order. And the bank wont show him the court order in question. He wants to see the 
court order and be reimbursed for legal costs of £4,000 plus compensation for the stress and 
affect on his mental health.
BOS said they received an order from the CMG and complied with it. They said theyd 
written to Mr H on 4 February 2020 and 12 March 2020 about it. If Mr H wanted a copy of the 
order produced by the CMG, he would have to contact CMG.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said he could see that an interim order 
was made on 6 February 2020; and BOS had to comply with it. There wasnt any question 
that BOS had been served with the order. She said Mr H must deal with the CMG if he 
disagrees that he owed the money under the order. But BOS had done what they were 
required to do, and therefore she didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say  we are an informal dispute resolution service which seeks to come to fair 
decisions where there is a complaint from a consumer about a financial business. We dont 
tell businesses to change their policies or practices. We dont take sides. And Ive looked at 
all the evidence here in coming to a decision.
The crux of Mr Hs complaint is that BOS didnt have the right to take the money from his 
account and wants to see a copy of the CMGs order. He has asked BOS for the order, but 
BOS have told him that he must ask the CMG for this information.
I looked at what happened. We asked BOS for a copy of the order, but they said they were 
told by the CMG that the contents of the order are only intended for BOS, and further 
distribution of it is strictly prohibited.  And the bank had to comply with the order. They 
repeated  that Mr H must ask CMG for a copy of it.
Ive considered this and here, we have an authority which is higher than our service (the 
court)  saying that the order will not be produced to us, and we therefore must respect that. 
We cant get a copy of the order. 
We looked at BOS processes here. And they say that the bank is bound by law to pay away 
the money under the order; and that customers must deal directly with the CMG if they have 
any questions. And I can see that when Mr H visited the branch in February 2020  thats 
what he was advised by BOS. And thats what BOS final response to Mr Hs complaint also 
said. So  BOS complied with their processes here and didnt make an error. 
I then looked at the letter dated 6 February 2020 - sent to Mr H by the CMG. Mr H provided 
this to us. The order says clearly that the CMG had sent an interim lump sum deduction 
order (LSDO) for £12,319.46 to BOS and that amount would be frozen. The letter asked that 
Mr H pay the money to CMG  or a final order would be made and the money deducted from 
his account. The letter said a copy of the order was enclosed with the letter. So at that stage, 
Mr H was sent the order. 
I can then see from Mr Hs statements that £12,319.46 was deducted from his account on 4 
February 2020. This was then refunded on 12 March 2020  and the final amount of 
£10,665.46 paid to CMG on the same day. BOS internal notes confirm that the final LSDO 
was for that amount, and that they paid that amount to CMG. Ive also seen from BOSs 
records that they wrote to Mr H on 4 February 2020 and 12 March 2020 to advise him about 
this.
And so, based on what Ive seen, BOS did what they were obliged to do under the order they 
were served with. And Im confident that the reasons BOS have given to us and Mr H about 
why the order cannot be shown are reasonable.
What we have here is a dispute between Mr H and CMG. So  Mr H must approach CMG for 
more information and take matters from there if he wishes. If he wants to dispute the order 
and the CMGs decision, he may have to resort to the courts  thats his decision. But as far 
as our service is concerned, I am not going to ask BOS to do anything further here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman