DRN-2771185
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the customer service they received from Yorkshire Building 
Society (YBS) when dealing with a Fixed Rate Bond account. 
What happened
In early April 2020 Mr and Mrs W spoke with YBS as the term of their existing deposit 
account had ended. They discussed options for reinvesting the funds and YBS sent 
Mr and Mrs W forms and information for a new Fixed Rate Bond. Mr and Mrs W completed 
the forms and returned them to YBS who set up the account at the end of April 2020.
Soon after this Mr and Mrs W contacted YBS saying they were unhappy with the interest 
rate and wanted to close the Fixed Rate Bond. YBS agreed this was possible and sent out 
the relevant forms which Mr and Mrs W completed and returned.
YBS then contacted Mr and Mrs W to say they had been given incorrect information and that 
it wasnt possible to close the Fixed Rate Bond as there were no cancellation rights. 
Mr and Mrs W complained about this saying they could get a higher rate on another account. 
YBS apologised for the wrong information and paid Mr and Mrs W a total of £135 for 
inconvenience caused by giving the wrong information but said the Bond cant be cancelled.
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy and brought their complaint to our service where one of 
our investigators looked into what happened. They acknowledged that wrong information 
had been given but they thought the £135 was a reasonable payment as an apology. 
Mr and Mrs W werent happy with this as they didnt think it was fair, so the complaint has 
come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties agree that wrong information was given to Mr and Mrs W about being able to 
cancel the Fixed Rate Bond. So I must decide whether the £135 YBS has paid is a fair 
payment for the trouble and upset caused.
When considering complaints where wrong information has been given I need to think about 
what would have happened had the correct information been given. In this situation when 
Mr and Mrs W spoke to YBS they shouldve been told that it wasnt possible to cancel the 
Fixed Rate Bond. So in terms of the Bond itself Mr and Mrs W are in the same position as 
they wouldve been had the mistake not been made; the Bond remains open as it cant be 
closed during the term. The wrong information didnt affect the situation with the Bond.
Having looked at what happened Im satisfied the £135 is fair compensation for what 
happened. Mr and Mrs W were put to some trouble as they completed the cancellation form 
unnecessarily and also took some time to contact YBS to sort things out which they 
shouldnt have had to do. YBS gave the correct information quickly after they realised the 
problem and apologised for what happened.   
Ive also looked at the information about the Fixed Rate Bond. Looking at the Product 
Factsheet Mr and Mrs W were given Im satisfied it explains there are no cancellation rights. 
This information is on the front page of the Factsheet under the heading About Our Fixed 
Rate Bonds. So I think how the Bond worked was fairly brought to their attention.
Mr and Mrs W also say that when they spoke to YBS about their options they werent given 
the correct information and that they couldve got a higher rate on a different account. Ive 
looked at the product Mr and Mrs W are referring to that did pay a slightly higher rate of 
interest; however this didnt allow for transfers from existing accounts. So Mr and Mrs W 
werent eligible for the account paying a higher rate. Ive also considered that Mr and Mrs W 
were sent the product information for the Bond they did take out and if they were unhappy 
with the rate on offer it was possible to contact YBS for clarification or to look elsewhere for 
an account that met their needs.
Having carefully considered everything Im satisfied that the payment made to Mr and Mrs W 
is fair and reasonable for what happened. Thats not to say that Mr and Mrs W havent been 
affected by what happened; they clearly have. But Im happy the £135 and the apology from 
YBS is a fair way of resolving the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman