DRN-2057257
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax cant find an account that he has 
the passbook for. Halifax says it no longer has this account, but Mr S says he never closed 
it. He wants Halifax to honour the account.
What happened
Mr S said he had a savings account with a bank thats now part of Halifax. He had always 
had the passbook, but he hadnt touched the account for many years. Recently he asked 
Halifax for the money, and it said it couldnt find the account. He wanted us to help him.
Halifax said that it had conducted a thorough search for Mr Ss account, using his current 
and former address details. And it cant find the account. It could have been closed. Halifax 
said that money can be taken out without the passbook, and a passbook isnt evidence that 
the account is still open. Halifax keeps records for a maximum of ten years, so if this had 
happened long ago, it would no longer have evidence of this. Halifax suggested that Mr S 
should look at other accounts hed had at the time, so he could check if the money had been 
paid in there. 
Halifax said it did feel that it had let Mr S down when he first enquired about the account, 
because it hadnt checked right away whether there was still an account open for him. So it 
said that it would offer £75 for that inconvenience. 
Mr S accepted the payment for inconvenience. But he said that Halifax should have proof 
that the account was closed, and if it didnt, then the assumption would be that its still open. 
And he stressed that hed asked for a lifetime savings account. Mr S also said hed noted the 
passbook to say that no withdrawals should be permitted without it.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that Mr Ss 
passbook was evidence that the account was still open now. He told Mr S about the checks 
Halifax had done. He said if Mr Ss account was still open, those searches wouldve located 
it. So our investigator thought it was most likely that it had been closed some time ago.
Our investigator did think that Halifax had let Mr S down because it hadnt checked right 
away when he asked it to look for the old account. But our investigator thought Halifaxs 
payment of £75 did make up for that.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he had evidence of his account, in the form of the passbook, and 
he had trusted that this was the only way to access his account. He said Halifax didnt have 
any evidence. He thought hed been mis-sold the account, as he wanted a life savings 
account. And he said that branch staff had always asked him for his passport and his 
passbook before he could access the account. Mr S was concerned about the wider 
implications of banks being able to delete data, but our investigator explained we can only 
look at his complaint. 
Because he and our investigator didnt agree, the case was then passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Mr S says that this is a lifetime savings account. I havent been able to establish, on what 
Ive seen, that this account was different from other savings accounts. It seems to have been 
an ordinary savings account, which Mr S says he intended to hold for some time. Mr S has 
suggested that he asked for a lifetime savings account, and that this account may have been 
mis-sold. Thats not what hes complained about to Halifax though, so I cant consider that 
here.
I realise that Mr S strongly believes that Halifax shouldnt just be able to say it cant find the 
account, and that this account may have been closed some time ago, so it wont have 
records. He thinks that it shouldve kept records for this account. And in the absence of 
those records, proving whats happened to his money, he thinks Halifax should honour the 
account.
Mr S still has his passbook, and hes told us that hes had it in his possession since the 
account was last used in the early nineties. He said he hadnt updated his address at the 
bank, but he didnt think he needed to. He felt that the account shouldve been safe, while he 
had the passbook. And he pointed out that hed noted the passbook to say no withdrawals 
should be permitted without it. 
If Mr S writes on the passbook to say he only wants to be able to take money out when he 
has the passbook, that doesnt change a banks approach to its accounts. Banks and 
building societies will still allow an account to be closed without the passbook being handed 
in. They have to do that. Passbooks can get lost or damaged or stolen. The bank or building 
society doesnt get to keep the money when that happens. The money still has to be given to 
the account holder. So I think that this account could have been closed even though the 
passbook wasnt given back.
Mr S said he has evidence, and Halifax doesnt. I dont think thats quite right. 
Mr Ss passbook is good evidence that there was an account at some point. But 
unfortunately it doesnt provide any evidence that this account is still open. So Mr S has 
shown us evidence that shows there was an account at one point, and that suggests it was 
open until the early nineties. 
Halifax has searched for this account on its records, and it doesnt appear. Halifax has 
shown us the screenshots of these searches, so Im satisfied that theyve been done, and 
that nothing has been found. So Halifax does have evidence. Its evidence shows that it 
doesnt have an account for Mr S now. 
None of that proves what has happened to the account. And if theres no proof of that, either 
way, then what I need to do is consider all the evidence that Ive been shown, and decide 
what is most likely to have happened here. And, weighing up the evidence we do have, I 
think it is more likely that Mr S has closed this account, without returning the passbook.  I know that Mr S thinks that Halifax shouldnt just be able to say that it has no records of the 
closed account. He thinks it should have to keep records of closed accounts, so it can prove 
what has happened to them. But our investigator has explained to Mr S that banks and 
building societies arent supposed to keep hold of personal information forever. They arent 
supposed to just hang on to information in case it might be helpful in future. They arent 
supposed to keep information if they dont have a business need for it. 
The last records we have of this account are from over twenty years ago. So I dont think its 
surprising, if this account was closed some time ago, that Halifax doesnt still have a record 
of this now. 
I realise that Mr S wont agree with me, but I just dont think that this account still being open 
is what is most likely to have happened in this case. I think Halifax has done all I would 
expect in searching for the account. Because it cant find it, and because theres nothing else 
to suggest that the account is still open now, or indeed has been open since the early 
nineties, I think it is more likely that the account was closed. 
I understand how strongly Mr S feels about this, so I know Mr S will be disappointed, but I 
dont think that his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman