DRN-4058297
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund the 
money he lost in a scam.
What happened
Mr R is represented but for ease Ill refer to Mr R throughout this decision. 
Mr R says that he saw a van advertised for sale on an online marketplace. He was 
interested in the van, as he urgently needed one for his work, and contacted the seller. The 
van was advertised for sale for £5,300 and the seller asked for a refundable deposit of 
£2,500 with the balance to be paid on collection. The seller provided Mr R with a screenshot 
of a V5 document which said the vehicle was acquired in February 2018. 
Mr R asked if he could pay by a secure method, but the seller said he didnt have an account 
to do so. Mr R paid £2,500 by bank transfer on 17 February 2022 and was due to drive a 
long distance to pick the van up the following day. The seller then threatened to sell the van 
to someone else if Mr R didnt pay the balance. The seller also told Mr R that hed been 
unable to access the funds initially sent so asked Mr R to transfer the balance to his 
girlfriends account. Mr R asked for some photos of the van as he said the advert had been 
removed and made the second payment.
Mr R went to pick up the van but when he got to the address the seller had given him the 
owners knew nothing about it. The seller blocked contact with Mr R and he realised hed 
been scammed and contacted Halifax that evening. 
Halifax investigated Mr Rs claim but didnt agree to refund him. It said that it met its 
obligations under the CRM Code, but that Mr R didnt do enough to check the seller was 
legitimate. Halifax also attempted to recover Mr Rs funds but was only able to recover 4p.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
that the payments Mr R made were consistent with previous account activity, so Halifax 
didnt need to provide warnings when the payments were made. The investigator also 
agreed that Mr R didnt have a reasonable basis to believe the seller was legitimate. 
Mr R didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so his complaint 
has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for my considerations is that, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms of his account, Mr R is liable for transactions hes carried out himself. 
But Halifax are signatories to the CRM Code and also have a longstanding obligation to be 
on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions which might indicate their 
customer is at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr R was tricked into making the payment. But this isnt enough 
for him to receive a refund under the CRM Code. The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances and it is for Halifax to establish that Mr R failed to 
meet his requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that: 
- The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning.
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
There are other exceptions that do not apply to this case. 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, I think the concerns Halifax has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transactions Mr R made, are enough to support its position 
that it can choose to rely on an exception to reimbursement. I dont think Mr R had a 
reasonable basis for believing the seller was legitimate and will explain why. 
- The price of the van was too good to be true. Mr R was buying the van for a total cost 
of £5,300. Having reviewed recognised industry trade guides that provide average 
vehicle sale prices based on make, model, vehicle age and mileage, this price is 
considerably less than the amount comparable vans were being sold for at the time 
of the scam. The information I have seen suggests the typical market value for the 
van Mr R was buying was around double what he paid. I think this is a significant 
point that ought reasonably to have led Mr R to take additional steps before making 
payment.
I appreciate that the seller told Mr R that he needed the funds so that he could buy a 
replacement vehicle, but this doesnt explain the massive price discount. The seller 
would need to obtain the market value of the van to replace it with a comparable van 
or to put towards an upgrade. 
- The seller initially said Mr R would need to pay a refundable deposit of £2,500 (which 
was said to be 50% of the purchase price) and the balance on collection. So I think 
Mr R ought to have had concerns about being asked to pay the balance before he 
had the opportunity to view the van. This is particularly so given that Mr R was driving 
to collect the van the day after the initial payment. And Im uncertain why the price 
rose by £300 so that Mr Rs second payment was for £2,800.  
- Mr R has said he completed checks as he used a website that allowed him to see 
details like the make and model and also previous MOT information. Ive viewed this 
website and can see that it provides limited information unless you pay a fee. Ive not 
been provided with any evidence that Mr R received a report so assume he could 
only see the basic information available. The information shows that the vehicle 
exists but theres nothing to link the seller to the vehicle. Whilst the seller provided Mr 
R with a V5 document which was in the name the seller gave to Mr R, this document 
clearly says on it that it isnt proof of ownership.  
- Mr R was asked to make the second payment to the sellers girlfriend which I 
consider to be unusual, and I dont consider the explanation was plausible. 
- Mr R was in urgent need of a van for work. He says that because of this he didnt 
check how long the seller had been on the marketplace or look at any reviews. But I 
dont believe it would have taken long to check this information to protect Mr R. Scammers who sell fake goods online often have newly created accounts.  
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear about this cruel scam, I think Halifax acted reasonably in 
relying on an exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Halifax met its obligations under the CRM Code. When it 
recognises a scam risk Halifax should provide its customer with what the code calls 
Effective Warnings. In this case though, Mr R had made transfers of around £2,000 shortly 
before the scam so Im satisfied the payments were in line with normal account activity and 
Halifax didnt need to provide effective warnings. For the same reasons, I also dont think 
Halifax needed to intervene when the payments were made.  
Halifax should contact the bank that received Mr Rs funds as soon as possible after the 
scam was reported to try to recover any funds that remain. The scam was reported in the 
evening of 18 February 2022, but Halifax didnt contact the receiving bank straight away. 
Confidential information obtained from the receiving bank shows that the delay in contacting 
the receiving bank had no impact on the amount that was recovered though. The funds sent 
to the seller on 17 February were removed shortly afterwards. The funds sent the following 
day were also removed soon after they were credited and before the scam was reported to 
Halifax (except for the 4p that was returned). 
Whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr R, I cant reasonably ask Halifax to provide a refund. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman