DRN-3708052
The complaint
Mr C complains that Allianz Insurance Plc unreasonably delayed his claim on his residential 
property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C owned a property that he rented out to tenants through a managing agent. He had 
residential property insurance with Allianz. 
In February 2021 the police attended the property and found that it had been used as a 
cannabis farm. Mr C subsequently discovered the tenants had caused significant damage to 
the property and the police had damaged the front door when forcing entry. He made a claim 
on the insurance.
Allianz explained that in order to confirm cover it would need to be satisfied that the 
conditions in the policy had been met. This included regular inspections of the property. It 
tried to contact the managing agent numerous times but was unable to get hold of them. 
In September 2021 it concluded that the claim wouldnt be covered as the conditions were 
unlikely to have been met, it wrote to Mr C to explain this.
Mr C was unhappy with this as he thought it had taken too long for this decision to be made. 
He also said Allianz hadnt addressed his claim for the broken door which should be covered 
by the policy as it was caused by the police, not the tenants. 
Allianz upheld his complaint and offered £300 compensation to make up for the delays. Mr C 
didnt think this was enough. He said Allianz had delayed him from being able to put the 
property back on the rental market, so it should cover the rental income he had lost in that 
time. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
agreed there had been some delays but thought the £300 offered already was sufficient to 
apologise for these. She said she didnt agree Allianz should pay for the lost rent because it 
wasnt a direct financial loss due to its actions.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says the claim took seven months to resolve when it should have been dealt with within 
one month. And therefore Allianz caused six months of avoidable delays.
Ive considered the timeline of the claim and I can see there were times when Allianz caused 
delays that could have been avoided. For example it erroneously sent an email to the wrong 
email address, and this wasnt discovered for around three weeks. And this meant the claim 
couldnt progress during this time. Further, there were times when Allianz could have done 
more to try and obtain the information it needed. Which also delayed matters.
However the main delay to the claim was due to the fact Allianz was unable to obtain 
information from the managing agent. The information it was trying to obtain was in order to 
assess whether the claim would be accepted or not. So I understand why it continued to 
chase them for some time, as it could have provided proof that would enable it to accept the 
claim. 
I appreciate this meant the claim went on for many months, when it could have been 
resolved much sooner, but the delay in trying to obtain the information wasnt due to Allianzs 
error. But was due to the managing agent being uncontactable. While I appreciate this is 
frustrating for Mr C, as he did all he could to get contact with the agent, I can only ask Allianz 
to take action where I find it got something wrong. Here, while I agree it caused some 
delays, I dont think those it was responsible for were significant. And I think the £300 
compensation already offered is fair to apologise for this delay,
Ive considered what Mr C has said about the rent he has missed out on due to delays, but I 
dont think its fair to ask Allianz to pay for this in the circumstances. The main reason Mr C 
has lost out on rental income is because of the damage caused by his tenants, and the 
subsequent difficulty in contacting the managing agent, not due to Allianz causing 
unnecessary delays. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that Allianz has offered fair and reasonable compensation to 
make up for the delay it caused. So I wont ask it to do anything further. 
It is also of note that Allianz has agreed to consider a separate claim for the damage to the 
door, and I think thats fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman