DRN-3237680
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from Nationwide Building Society when he 
called them on Boxing Day, 2020.
What happened
Mr Ms call on 26 December 2020 was following up a call hed made on 16 December. That 
in turn was following up on one from 25 November, where hed raised a section 75 claim.
Ive already considered a complaint Mr M made about the call on 16 December. I found later 
updates and £75 compensation that Nationwide offered put right Mr Ms concerns.
Mr Ms mobile phone call history for 26 December shows three substantial calls to 
Nationwide on that day. In total, the period in which the calls took place lasted just under 90 
minutes. Mr M says that doesnt reflect the time he spent on hold.
Nationwide have provided transcripts for all of these calls. The first call transcript shows that 
the call ended without a resolution, seemingly when the call taker tried to put Mr M on hold to 
get some advice. The second call transcript then shows Mr M called back immediately 
wanting to speak to a manager. The third transcript then confirms Mr M raised his complaint 
about the calls that day.
In response to Mr Ms complaint, Nationwide considered their service on the 16 December 
call, rather than 26 December. Dissatisfied with this, Mr M came to us.
I wrote last time that I found there had been an issue with the first call on 26 December. But I 
felt the transcripts showed this added to Mr Ms existing dissatisfaction with Nationwide, 
rather than creating a whole new impact for him. I decided this overlap meant I needed to 
take into account the £75 already offered to deal with that upset. Doing so, I considered a 
further payment of £25 compensation would be enough to recognise the impact the service 
in this specific complaint had on Mr M.
Nationwide responded to my provisional decision saying they had nothing to add. Mr M 
wrote to us saying he disagreed with my view, and that he felt inaccuracies in my reporting 
of the facts of the case meant I hadnt done a proper investigation of his case. He noted 
specifically that his section 75 claim was for a much higher value than Id thought when 
coming to my view. 
With these comments received, Im now able to make a final decision for this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The transcript and Mr Ms comments continue to show me that the service Mr M received in 
the first phone call on 26 December wasnt reasonable. It should have been possible for 
Nationwide to respond to Mr Ms questions and concerns efficiently and accurately. Instead, 
he seems to have been cut off, possibly because the call taker didnt use the phone lines 
hold function correctly.
But the same evidence also shows me Mr M was already upset with the service hed 
received at that point. And hed complained just under two weeks earlier. So Im factoring in 
that the poor service on 26 December added to his existing dissatisfaction, rather than 
creating a whole new impact.
To put this right, Ive therefore considered how much this specific issue  the unreasonable
phone call on 26 December  added to the upset Mr M was feeling at the time.
Putting things right
Putting a value on emotional matters is always something of a matter of opinion. But we take 
an approach that considers a few concrete factors. One is how long the upset lasted. And 
another is the significance of the underlying financial service being provided.
Here, the calls happened on 26 December, in just under 90 minutes. I appreciate Mr Ms 
comments about hold times not being shown on his call record, but I dont think thats right. 
The call record is from his phone provider, who wouldnt really be able to distinguish 
between Nationwides holding queue, and the active operator lines. Plus theres no gap 
between the calls, which there would be if queue times werent reflected on the record.
So taking 90 minutes as the duration of the phone calls being complained about, thats a
relatively short amount of time. That leads me towards saying any compensation needed
should be at the lower end of what we would usually award.
Last time I wrote how the section 75 claim seemed like a modest matter too. It related to a 
CCTV camera purchase from 2018. Mr M has responded to this, saying the value of the 
claim was much higher than I thought. 
Looking again at the details of this case I can see thats right  there appear to be three 
separate section 75 claims raised on 25 November. The most significant of these related to 
a CCTV system Mr M had purchased in 2017. 
Given the timing of the purchase, Im still satisfied the money in dispute in the section 75 
claims wasnt a desperate, time-critical issue for Mr M. Yes, he no doubt felt out of pocket. 
But this wasnt money Mr M would have been relying on having to pay for more immediate 
needs, such as housing, food or other essential costs. 
So Im still of the view a modest amount of compensation is right for this case. Last time I 
said this should be £25  particularly taking into account the £75 Mr M had been offered to 
compensate for the overlapping impact of his earlier complaint. I see nothing that changes 
my opinion about that, so Ive decided to make my final decision on the same basis. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint about Nationwide Building Society. To recognise the 
upset their service in this specific complaint added to Mr Ms situation, they should pay him 
£25 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman