DRN-3115091
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the outcome of a claim he made under his pet insurance policy 
provided by Allianz Insurance Plc, trading as Petplan.
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points.
Mr S took out pet insurance for his cat with Allianz in 2021.
After the policy started, Mr S took his cat to the vet for a routine visit. The vet noticed 
the cat was breathing abnormally and carried out some tests. The cat was diagnosed 
with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) and hyperthyroidism (HT). The vet 
recommended treatment for both conditions. Mr S got in touch with Allianz to make a 
claim for the cost of the treatments.
Allianz accepted the claim for HT and paid some of the cost of this treatment. I 
understand Mr S hasnt disputed this point. Allianz declined the claim for HCM. It said 
the cat had suffered signs of HCM in 2019, prior to the policy starting, and the policy 
didnt cover pre-existing conditions.
Our investigator thought Allianz had acted fairly when declining the HCM claim. She 
noted the vets records from 2019 mentioned the cat suffering breathing problems 
that could be a sign of cardiac disease.
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed been advised to monitor his cats breathing in 2019. 
But at that time no medication or treatment had been recommended and no 
diagnosis of a condition had been made. None of that happened until 2021  after 
the policy had started.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz has declined the claim for the cost of treating HCM as it considers this is a pre-
existing condition. Ive checked the policy to see what it says about this.
The policy covers the cost of veterinary fees  but not the cost of any treatment for a pre-
existing condition. The policy explains what it means by this phrase. In summary, its any 
injury or illness that happened or first showed clinical signs before the policy started. And 
the phrase clinical signs means a change in the pets normal healthy state.
This means for something to be pre-existing, there only need to have been signs or 
symptoms of the condition prior to the policy starting. Theres no need for a condition to have 
been diagnosed, treated or medicated.
Mr S has claimed for the cost of treating HCM. I understand HCM is a form of heart disease, 
which is also known as cardiac disease.
The vets records from 2021 said the cat was suffering abnormal breathing and a heart 
murmur. They thought these were signs of heart disease and, after carrying out tests, 
diagnosed HCM.
The vets records from 2019 said the cat was breathing quite fast and advised Mr S to 
monitor the cats breathing in case of cardiac disease. This is consistent with Mr Ss 
recollection of what happened at that time.
Based on this information, I agree with Mr S that HCM hadnt been diagnosed, treated or 
medicated in 2019. However, Im persuaded there were signs his cat was suffering from a 
heart problem  and he had been made aware of that. The vet had described breathing 
problems and linked the symptoms to heart disease  which is the kind of condition Mr S has 
now claimed for. Im satisfied this meets the policy definition of a pre-existing condition. As 
a result, Im satisfied it was fair for Allianz to decline the claim for HCM, based on the 
information available.
When Allianz responded to Mr S complaint, it let him know he could discuss this with his vet. 
And if they think there isnt a link between the 2019 and 2021 problems, and explain why, 
Allianz will reconsider the claim. I think thats a reasonable approach to take and that option 
remains open to Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman