DRN-1408992
 
The complaint
Mr U complains that HiFX Europe Limited trading as XE charged him a very large amount of 
money for a small mistake.
What happened
Mr U said he intended to ask HiFX to exchange the sum of €1,016 and transfer it to an 
account overseas. He said that the transfer didnt go through straight away, but HiFX didnt 
tell him anything was wrong. So he rang, and then HiFX said he had asked to make a 
transfer of €10,016, and he hadnt paid all the money he owed for the transfer. 
Mr U was certain he hadnt done that and said HiFX must have made a mistake. But HiFX 
said it was his mistake. It said it could only send part of the money hed sent it, to the 
beneficiary. It was keeping the rest to make up for exchange rate differences. 
Mr U wanted all the money hed sent to HiFX to be exchanged and sent to his beneficiary.
HiFX said Mr U had booked his foreign exchange transaction and money transfer online, on 
1 August. Hed requested a transfer of €10,016 then. So HiFX said it had bought the foreign 
currency that Mr U said he wanted right away. He only paid €1,016 on 2 August, and on 6 
August he contacted it to find out why the money hadnt arrived yet. 
HiFX said then that it was still expecting the rest of the payment from Mr U. Once it realised 
there had been a mistake, it told Mr U that it would need to sell the extra foreign currency it 
had bought. The exchange rate had changed, and there would be a loss of €519. HiFX set 
out the figures behind that amount for Mr U. It told him that he could go ahead with the 
transaction, and less money would be sent. Or he could cancel the whole transaction, but 
that would cost more. So Mr U asked it to go ahead with the transaction. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr U had 
mistakenly input the wrong amount for his transaction. HiFX had acted in line with its terms 
and conditions, and it had made a loss on the transaction that it had asked Mr U to make up. 
Our investigator didnt think that was the fault of HiFX or that it had made a mistake. 
Mr U didnt agree. He said what HiFX had done was like fraud. It was just a little mistake, 
and his money was gone. He said if hed gone to an office to make a transfer then hed have 
been told straight away. Mr U said it was HiFXs policy to take his money if he made a 
mistake. He thought that policy should be changed, and he wanted his money back. 
Mr U wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I dont doubt that Mr U has made a genuine mistake. The question is whether he should be 
penalised for this. He says this isnt fair, and he shouldnt lose so much money for a small 
mistake. He also says that if he went into a shop, then the mistake wouldve been spotted.
Mr U chose to do this transaction online, and to pay by bank transfer. HiFX has shown us 
the screens that Mr U saw when he booked this transfer. The screen to input amounts is the 
first screen Mr U saw and completed. Those amounts are then shown on each following 
screen. And the amount was then confirmed in an email to him afterwards. Mr U just didnt 
notice the mistake. He didnt realise anything was wrong until he rang HiFX, almost a week 
later, to see why his payment hadnt arrived.
But HiFX says that mistake has cost a lot of money. It had already changed the amount Mr U 
had ordered, into the currency he wanted. We now know this was a mistake, and he only 
wanted about a tenth of what hed ordered. But HiFX didnt know that when it changed his 
money. It didnt know that until almost a week later. And HiFX said the exchange rate 
changed in the meantime. It would lose money if it just changed the same amounts back.
The screens HiFX showed us, for booking a transaction, include a clear warning that HiFX 
buys currency as soon as it receives an order from a customer. I understand that this is how 
it makes sure it can honour the exchange rate that it offers for transactions, by buying the 
currency right away. The warning says You are liable for any close out cost incurred if you 
cancel your Transaction. And HiFX says thats what was deducted from Mr Us transfer. 
We know that Mr U didnt notice his mistake, and didnt realise there was a problem until 
almost a week later. Ive checked the exchange rates for the two currencies at the time, and 
it did change. And not in Mr Us favour. So I think there was a loss. And unfortunately for Mr 
U, I think that HiFXs terms and conditions make clear that he has to pay that loss. HiFX isnt 
just keeping half of Mr Us money, its using it to cover that loss. 
I dont think its unfair for HiFX to operate its business in this way. I dont think that I could 
fairly insist that HiFX pays the costs whenever one of its customers makes a mistake. 
Especially as it does warn customers that if there is a loss, they will have to pay it. 
I know that Mr U has said that this loss is difficult for him, and Im very sorry to hear that. But, 
for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman