DRN-2788753
The complaint
Mr R is represented by his daughter, Mrs C. Mrs C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC) did not recognise that Mr R was a vulnerable person and they recommended 
investments that were not suitable. 
Mrs C also says that HSBC gave misleading information to an Estate Agent who was acting 
for Mr R on a house purchase which lead to Mr R suffering stress and anxiety. 
What happened
In March 2015, Mr R met with HSBC to discuss his investments and was provided with 
recommendations in April 2015. HSBC recommended that Mr R invest £63,449.38 into the 
HSBC World Selection Income Portfolio C. This comprised of three separate investments 
within the portfolio. Mr R proceeded with the recommendations.
In January 2020, Mr R was looking to purchase a property and contacted HSBC to check the 
value of his investments. The price for property that Mr R was wishing to purchase was 
£139,000.
On 10 February 2020, HSBC wrote to the Estate Agents representing Mr R and confirmed 
that he had available funds to purchase the property. In April 2020, the solicitors acting for 
the seller of the property contacted Mr R asking for payment for the property.
HSBC advised Mr R that there was a shortfall and that he didnt have enough funds for the 
purchase.
Mrs C complained to HSBC asking why there was a shortfall in Mr Rs funds since the 
discussion in January and what caused the shortfall. Mrs C also asked about HSBCs policy 
on dealing with vulnerable persons.
HSBC investigated the complaint but didnt think that they had done anything wrong. They 
said that Mr R did not receive advice in January 2020, but they reviewed the advice provided 
in 2015 and were satisfied that the investments were suitable.
HSBC also said that markets were affected following the COVID-19 Pandemic and the 
unpredictability of investing in the stock market was out of their hands. 
HSBC said that they adhered to their procedures around vulnerable persons and Mr R was 
offered the opportunity for a third party to accompany him to meetings which he declined. 
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mrs C referred the complaint to the service and one of our 
investigators investigated the complaint. The investigator agreed with HSBC and didnt think 
that they had done anything wrong. 
The investigator thought that the advice given my HSBC in 2015 was suitable for Mr R and 
that his financial objectives and goals were considered together with his personal 
circumstances. The investigator said that although the Estate Agent was provided with a 
letter saying there was enough funds in February 2020, the fall in markets meant that the 
value of Mr Rs investments had fallen, and he was made aware of this in April 2020. The 
investigator did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mrs C has asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and will 
not be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr R and Mrs C feel strongly about the complaint 
and I will explain why I have reached this decision.
In her submission to the service, Mrs C has listed points in which she believes HSBC failed 
in their duty of care to Mr R. These points are:
The initial lack of recognition of Mr R as a vulnerable person 
The mis-selling of investments to Mr R
The lack of follow up and action since the original advice in 2015 
The lack of advice and action in January 2020 when it was known that Mr R required 
funds to purchase a property 
The misleading statement provided by HSBC in February 2020 to the Estate Agent 
stating that Mr R had enough funds for the property 
These points were covered off in the investigators view, but I will also use the points in 
addressing the complaint and providing my thoughts on each one in turn.
The initial lack of recognition of Mr R as a vulnerable person 
The regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority has published guidance on how it expects a 
business to achieve good outcomes for vulnerable customers. These are 
understand the needs of their target market/customer base 
make sure staff have the right skills and capability to recognise and respond to the needs 
of vulnerable customers 
respond to customer needs throughout product design, flexible customer service 
provision and communications 
monitor and assess whether they are meeting and responding to the needs of customers 
with characteristics of vulnerability, and make improvements where this is not happening
HSBC have said in their response to the original complaint that they adhered to their 
procedures in dealing with vulnerable customers. Although I have not had sight of these 
procedures, I can see that Mr R was offered the opportunity to be accompanied to the 
meetings by a third party and he declined this offer. HSBC also say that the advice took 
place over two meetings and there was a three-week period in between. They say that Mr R 
was provided with a cancellation notice in which he had time to change his mind.
The fact find noted Mr Rs age and general health and listed what he liked to do in his spare 
time. Age is not necessarily a sign that a consumer may be vulnerable, but I can see that 
HSBC have given due regard to Mr Rs circumstances and offered him the opportunity to be accompanied to meetings. Mr R declined this, and I cant say that HSBC have failed in their 
duty of care to Mr R.
Mrs C has said that Mr R suffers from Parkinson with dementia and it should have been 
apparent to HSBC that Mr Rs did not have the mental capacity to understand the paperwork 
that he received. I sympathise with Mrs C but there is nothing on file to suggest that HSBC 
were aware of Mr Rs current health issues following the initial advice provided in 2015.
The mis-selling of investments to Mr R
When providing advice, the business must look at the personal and financial circumstances 
of the consumer. They should also look at the financial objectives and the consumers 
attitude to risk and whether they can afford to invest.
I have reviewed the fact find that was conducted with Mr R in 2015 and found it to be 
comprehensive and in line with what I would expect to see covered.
HSBC reviewed Mr Rs existing investments and suggested changes based on his risk 
profile, his capacity to invest and his financial goals. HSBC gave due regard to Mr Rs future 
financial needs and advised that Mr R have access to cash in case his needs changed.
The investigator discussed the outcome of the fact find in detail is his view and I have looked 
at this and the document issued to Mr R which summarised the meetings with HSBC. I think 
that HSBC recommended investments that were in line with Mr Rs stated risk appetite and 
would meet his financial objectives. I cant find any evidence that the recommendations were 
unsuitable and Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything else.
The lack of follow up and action since the original advice in 2015 
I note that Mr R was accessing advice from HSBC as part of his HSBC Premier proposition. 
It looks as though this allowed Mr R to ask HSBC for financial planning on an ad-hoc basis 
for which he would pay a fee.
Having read the documentation that was issued to Mr R by HSBC there is nothing to suggest 
that the advice he received in 2015 was ongoing but rather this was following his request for 
a review of his financial needs.
I am satisfied that Mr R paid for one off advice in 2015 and HSBC were not under any other 
contractual obligation to provide future reviews on receipt of this payment. I dont think that 
HSBC have acted unfairly here and Im not going to ask them to do anything else.
The lack of advice and action in January 2020 when it was known that Mr R required funds 
to purchase a property 
It is acknowledged that Mr R asked HSBC for information on the value of his investments 
and this resulted in HSBC issuing a letter to Mr Rs Estate Agent in February 2020.
In their submission to the service, HSBC have said that the Relationship Manager spoke to 
Mr R and that he had requested a valuation of his funds as he was considering a house 
move. Mr R said that he may have to purchase the property using his capital (cash and 
investments) prior to selling his own home. The adviser said that she provided the 
information and asked when the capital would be required. The adviser said that Mr R told 
her that it would be in April, but he hadnt made an offer at that point (January).The adviser said that if he wanted to dispose of his investments then it could take up to ten 
days for his capital to be available, so he had to keep this in mind.
The adviser has said that at no point did she provide advice on his investments or when to 
dispose of them.
Mrs C has said that Mr R should have received implicit advice from HSBC that if he wanted 
to realise the value indicated by them, then he should have been advised to sell his 
investments to realise the proceeds.
As there is no recording of the call between HSBC and Mr R, I cant say for certain what was 
discussed and what was said. I have thought about what may have been discussed based 
on the balance of probability, and I think that it is likely that Mr R asked how much his 
investments were valued at and this information was provided. 
I also think that if Mr R had said that he was thinking of buying a property then the adviser 
would have said that investments would need to be sold in order to raise funds.
Mrs C has said that Mr R should have received implicit advice at this point. From what I have 
read in HSBCs submission to the service, I think the adviser gave clear information to Mr R 
based on his questions and information on what would need to happen if Mr R wanted to 
raise funds.
I think that on the balance of probability, Mr R was provided with information about the value 
of his investments and what he would need to do if he wished to raise funds for his property 
purchase. I think that HSBC have acted fairly in providing this information.
The misleading statement provided by HSBC in February 2020 to the Estate Agent stating 
that Mr R had enough funds for the property 
I have looked at the letter sent by HSBC in February 2020 and it says:
I write on behalf of Mr R who has requested a letter to confirm that he has sufficient funds 
held with HSBC in order to purchase a property in cash to the value of £139,000.
Mrs C has said that this is incorrect as the monies were invested in an asset which could fall 
or rise in value. Mrs C said that this statement would only be true if the monies were held in 
cash.
I have looked at the statement issued by HSBC and note that the phrase he has sufficient 
funds. This statement does not say that Mr R had funds in cash nor does it say that he has 
investments valued at a specific amount. I think the wording is somewhat vague and can 
understand why Mrs C feels it is misleading.
HSBC were not acting for Mr R in the property purchase and they were asked by Mr R to 
provide proof that he could pay for the property purchase. HSBC provided a statement to the 
Estate Agent based on information in February 2021.
I cant hold HSBC responsible for the drop in value of Mr Rs investments from the date they 
issued the letter to when he was asked to provide cash for the property purchase in April 
2021.
In summary, I think that HSBC provided suitable advice to Mr R in 2015 when he met with 
them for advice on his investments and HSBC provided a duty of care to Mr R given his age 
and personal circumstances.I cant hold HSBC responsible for the market movements and fall in value of Mr Rs 
investments and although HSBC issued a letter to the Estate Agent, I think that it was Mr Rs 
responsibility to ensure that he had cash to pay the property purchase costs.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman