DRN-4062980
The complaint
Ms D has complained about KGM Underwriting Services Limiteds (KGMs) decision to 
cancel her motorcycle insurance policy.
KGM is responsible for the actions of its broker, C. So, any references to KGM will also 
include a reference to C.
What happened
On 31 March 2022, KGM wrote to Ms D to give 7 days notice of cancellation of her policy. 
The reason given for the cancellation was that Ms D hadnt disclosed a previous claim when 
she renewed the policy. On becoming aware of the claim, KGM said that it was no longer 
able to provide cover. Ms D says she didnt receive a copy of that notice of cancellation.
On 7 April 2022, KGM wrote to Ms D to inform her that theyd cancelled her motorcycle 
insurance policy with immediate effect. Ms D received that letter a number of days after the 
cancellation and was distressed to find out shed been riding her motorcycles without 
insurance. 
Ms D phoned KGM to ask why the policy had been cancelled. KGM explained that the 
cancellation was due to a failure to disclose a previous accident. They said theyd sent Ms D 
a notice of cancellation and were confident that Ms D had been asked about any claims, at 
the time of renewal.
Unhappy with KGMs comments, Ms D raised a formal complaint which was responded to in 
a final response letter dated 18 April 2022. In that response KGM said it was unable to 
uphold Ms Ds complaint in part, as the policy had become unacceptable when the 
undisclosed claim was added, and also because the agent did ask Ms D the question about 
whether any changes were required on the policy, at renewal. 
However, the part of the complaint Ms D had raised about not receiving notice of 
cancellation was upheld because KGM didnt send an email to her with the notice; they only 
posted a letter, so the seven-day notice period wasnt provided. KGM refunded £75 of fees 
to Ms D by way of apology.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and issued a view not upholding the 
complaint. In summary, he said that Ms Ds failure to provide information about the 
March 2021 accident amounted to a qualifying misrepresentation which meant KGM was 
entitled to cancel the policy and provide a refund of the unused part of the premium. He also 
said that the refund of £75 was sufficient to compensate Ms D for not receiving prior notice 
of the cancellation. 
Ms D didnt agree with our investigators view and requested an ombudsmans decision on 
her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, the relevant law which applies to this complaint is The 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires 
consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a 
consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer.
If the consumer fails to do this, the insurer can take certain actions, as long as the 
misrepresentation is a qualifying misrepresentation. If the insurer can show that it would 
have offered the policy on different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation, then it will be a qualifying misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. The actions the insurer is permitted to take, under CIDRA, will depend on 
whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless.
Ive listened to the call during which Ms D renewed her motorcycle policy. On the call, the 
broker, C, asked Ms D to confirm shed received, read and understood her renewal invite. 
She confirmed that she had. Ms D was then asked whether there were any changes to be 
made. At that point she asked that one of the motorcycles be removed from the policy. 
The Motorcycle Statement of Insurance sent to Ms D with the renewal documents, (prior to 
the call referred to above), in section 3. Losses, asks: Have you or any vehicle owned by 
you had any accident loss (including fire or theft) or claim  either fault or non-fault  in the 
last three years? Ms D answered, yes and included details of the May 2019 accident in the 
table directly underneath. In the declaration section on the second page of the Statement of 
Insurance, Ms D confirmed that the answers given on the document were true to the best of 
her knowledge and belief. 
The renewal letter dated 1 March 2022, sent to Ms D, under the heading: Are Your Details 
Correct says: If any of your details are incorrect, please contact us immediately. If you fail to 
do so your insurance cover may not protect you in the event of a claim, resulting in the 
insurance being void. 
Ive reviewed the information that was sent to Ms D, prior to the renewal call, and can see 
that only one accident was listed, from May 2019. So, the details werent correct. Ms D said 
she thought only motorcycle accidents needed to be disclosed, but the question refers to 
any vehicle owned by you which would include any motor vehicle: car; van; or motorcycle.  
So, I think the question was clear.
I also think Ms D had an opportunity to correct this information if she needed to, but I havent 
seen anything to indicate that she let KGM know about the March 2021 accident. I 
understand that Ms D thought that information wasnt relevant to this policy. However, she 
had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
KGM has provided information to show it wouldnt have renewed Ms Ds policy if she had 
provided the correct information. So, I think that Ms D made a qualifying misrepresentation. 
KGM has treated the misrepresentation as a qualifying misrepresentation, which I think is 
fair given it was a mistake on Ms Ds part, to not inform KGM of her mistake. 
KGM have refunded the unused portion of Ms Ds premium, which is the remedy allowed under CIDRA for a careless qualifying misrepresentation, so I dont think its done anything 
wrong here. Ms D isnt happy with the amount of premium that was refunded to her. 
However, KGM have confirmed that a straight pro rata return of the premium was paid to 
her, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Ms D has also complained about not receiving 7 days notice of cancellation of her policy. I 
can see that this caused her some upset, but the underwriting decision to cancel her policy 
would have taken effect regardless. So, I think KGMs offer of £75 compensation is fair in the 
circumstances. Im therefore not going to interfere with KGMs decision or tell it to do 
anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman