DRN-1973291
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the increases in premiums on their health insurance policies 
with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms insurance policies with AXA PPP started a long time ago. 
In 2016, Mr Ms policy cost £3,612 for the year. The next year the policy cost £3,771. By 
2019, the renewal quote was for £4,503. 
In 2016, Mrs Ms policy (which was for a higher level of cover) cost £4,627 for the year. The 
next year it cost £5,054. By 2019, AXA PPP offered renewal of the policy for £6,245.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs M say they found health insurance elsewhere for about two thirds of the 
overall cost of their policies with AXA PPP. They cancelled their AXA PPP policies and made 
a complaint about what theyd been charged over the years. 
AXA PPP said the premiums had been calculated correctly to reflect the insurance provided. 
The main factors in the price increases were Mr and Mrs Ms age and medical inflation (the 
increasing cost of treatments). 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed, so Ive been asked to 
make a decision. 
Mr and Mrs M say that what AXA PPP charged them was grossly exorbitant and 
disproportionate when compared to what they are being charged by their new insurers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price risk and what an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether AXA PPP has treated Mr and 
Mrs M fairly throughout the period they held its insurance policies.
If I find that AXA PPP hasnt treated Mr and Mrs M fairly, I will look to see what 
compensation would be fair. But having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Ill explain why.
An insurer hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing the premium at renewal  
and there are often risk related reasons for an insurer doing so. As AXA PPP has pointed 
out, in the case of health insurance, the main factors are the age of the insured person/s and 
medical inflation.
I note that Mr Ms policy included a no claims discount, which reduced at the 2019 renewal 
due to a claim or claims made during the 2018 policy year. That made the renewal premium 
increase far more significantly than wouldve been the case if no claims had been made.
Mr and Mrs M say they found health insurance for much less with another insurer. So, I can 
understand why this led them to think AXA PPP had treated them unfairly. But I dont think 
thats the case  for a number of reasons.
Insurers often include discounts in order to obtain new customers. That means that a new 
customer will often be paying less than the true cost of providing the insurance policy. So, Mr 
and Mrs Ms new insurer may have included such a discount in the first year of their policy. 
In addition to this, insurance policies are not all the same  they have different levels of 
cover, excesses and differing terms and conditions that can affect the price charged. Also, 
each insurers costs may vary depending on many things. So, just because the policy with 
AXA PPP cost a lot more than their new policy  that doesnt mean the amount charged was 
unfair  even though Mr and Mrs M suggest the cover is similar.
In Mr Ms case, I understand his new policy excludes some conditions for which he had 
treatment under the AXA PPP policy during the 2018 policy year. Had those conditions been 
covered by his new insurer, the price would most likely have been much higher. Or, it may 
be that Mr Ms new insurer simply viewed it as too risky to cover those conditions at any 
price. Whereas AXA PPP was covering those conditions and was setting the price 
accordingly.
Mr and Mrs M have said they think that AXA PPP shouldve contacted them to discuss their 
options for reducing the price. But there was no requirement for it to do so. AXA PPP was 
not acting as an insurance broker, so it did not have to look at the broader market to see if 
Mr and Mrs M could get more suitable or less expensive cover from another insurer.
What AXA PPP had to do was set out the price in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. I think it did this, setting out both the monthly cost, and what that added up to 
over each policy year in its renewal invitations. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs M were also invited to contact AXA PPP to discuss the policies, 
including if they wanted to explore reducing the price by, for example, changing cover or 
excess levels. 
There are now rules (that were introduced in 2017) that say insurers should, in the renewal 
invitation, encourage their customers to shop around if theyve had their policy for a number 
of years. These didnt exist when Mr and Mrs M took out their policies with AXA PPP, so it 
had no obligation to do this sooner.
Ultimately, the policy Mr and Mrs M have compared their AXA PPP policy to is different. It 
provides different levels of cover as Ive explained above and cant be taken as a like for like 
comparison. Im satisfied AXA PPP has treated Mr and Mrs M fairly when deciding what to 
charge for the insurance it was providing, and this has been consistent with its approach to 
the risks insured in line with how it treats other customers. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman