DRN-2887515
The complaint
Mr Ns complained (on behalf of his business J) that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
made the same payment twice from his account.
What happened
In mid-2020, using Js online banking facility, Mr N made what he believed was a transfer 
from one of his Barclays accounts to another, followed by a payment to a third party.
Several months later, Mr N found out that Barclays had actually processed two payments to 
the third party.  He was sure he hadnt done that, so he made enquiries of Barclays.  
Barclays told him their records showed Mr N had made two payments to the third party for 
the same amount  one from each of his accounts.
Mr N was certain he hadnt done that.  He complained to Barclays that the two payments 
must have been a result of an error in their systems.
Barclays investigated and wrote to Mr N with their findings.  They said theyd established the 
two payments were made separately from each other, which theyd checked by examining 
the report of Mr Ns key strokes.  So they said they didnt think there was any error in their 
system.
Mr N wasnt satisfied with Barclayss response and brought Js complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered the complaint and concluded Barclays didnt need to do anything 
more to resolve it.  He examined the key stroke information and was satisfied this showed 
Mr N had made two separate payments.
Mr N didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding the complaint Mr Ns made on Js behalf.  Ill explain 
why.
I know my decisions unlikely to satisfy Mr N.  Im sorry about that.  But my role is to decide 
whether Barclays did anything wrong.  And, if they did, whether theyve done enough to 
address that, or whether they need to do more.  In reaching that decision, I have to take into 
account the impact any mistake had on J.
And I look at the information both Barclays and Mr N have given us about what happened.  
Where theres a dispute about that, I base my decision on what I think is most likely to have 
occurred.  I cant  as Mr N wants  make an absolute determination about what 
happened.
Its clear from what Ive seen here the parties dont agree on what instructions Mr N gave via 
the online banking service.  Mr N is adamant he made a transfer between two of his 
accounts, and one payment to a third party.  Barclays have said he made two transfers.
If a business is alerted by their customer to an error of this type, Id expect them to 
investigate their customers concerns and, if they find an error in their systems, to take steps 
to put things right.  Thats what Barclays did here.  Mr N questioned the two payments.  Ive 
seen Barclays letter to him confirming their enquiries showed hed made two payments, nine 
minutes apart.
And Barclays reviewed their findings when Mr N complained.  Their final response explained 
the case handler had reviewed the key strokes report, which showed hed authorised both 
payments.  Barclays have sent that report to us.  And Im satisfied thats what it says.  
In the light of that, it wouldnt be fair for me to say Barclays havent investigated and 
identified the issue.  I understand Mr N doesnt agree with those findings.  But Ive no 
information on which to base a decision that Barclays should do more  particularly as the 
second payment was returned and so J hasnt lost anything as a result of this episode.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Js complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman