DRN-3323105
The complaint
Ms W complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) arent communicating with her in line 
with her communication needs. She also complains about their handling of disputes she has 
raised and about their decision to close her account. 
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties. So, I wont go into much detail 
about the background but will summarise the key points leading to Ms Ws complaint. Ms W 
held an account with Starling and asked them to put in place reasonable adjustments to 
support her with her disabilities. This included contact by email only and within the hours of 
9.00am to 5.00pm, Monday to Friday. Ms W says, due to her disabilities, she spends much 
of her time at home and does most of her shopping online. Ms W says she has raised a 
number of disputes with Starling but feels their communication has been confusing and 
theyve been unhelpful.  
Ms W raised these complaints with Starling and they responded and explained they do have 
a note on their system setting out Ms Ws preferred mode of communication and times. They 
said, while theyre doing their best to meet Ms Ws requirements, customisation is limited on 
their systems and theyve previously explained that due to this, theyre unable to guarantee 
that all communication will be via email at Ms Ws requested times. Starling say, with this in 
mind, whilst they empathise with the frustration and inconvenience Ms W has experienced, 
theyre unable to uphold this element of her complaint. 
Starling apologised Ms W was left waiting without acknowledgement of her emails in relation 
to a dispute with company G. In relation to a dispute involving company S, Starling said the 
correct process had been followed for reversing this transaction so theyre unable to uphold 
this element of Ms Ws complaint. But, they acknowledged that their agent couldve been 
clearer in explaining that the timeframe for a pending balance to clear was 30 days and not 
eight days, and they apologised for any inconvenience this caused. 
Starling also gave Ms W 60 days notice to close her account. Ms W then raised a complaint 
about Starlings decision as she felt this was down to her disabilities. Starling then emailed 
Ms W and explained they have a note on their system recording Ms Ws disabilities and 
communication needs. They said theyre reviewing their records and asked Ms W if shes 
happy for this note to remain on her account or if shed like to remove or amend it. Given 
that Starling had already made the decision to close Ms Ws account, Ms W felt this was an 
attempt by Starling to remove any record of her disabilities if theyre later questioned on their 
reasons for closing the account. Ms W also raised concerns about other disputes.   
Our investigator looked into things for Ms W. She thought Starling had made errors and 
recommended they pay £300 compensation to Ms W, send clear updates to Ms W about any 
outstanding disputes and support Ms W with the conclusion of these, and send 
correspondence to Ms W within the times she has requested. Ms W agreed with our 
investigators recommendation but Starling, while responding, havent agreed, so the matter 
has come to me for a decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. I can see both 
parties have raised many points and I wish to assure them that Ive considered all points 
raised but Ive only commented on those points which I feel are relevant to my decision. I 
mean no discourtesy by this, but rather its to reflect the informal nature of our service.    
Theres a number of individual complaints but for simplicity and to keep things clear, Ive 
categorised these in broad themes. Again, I mean no discourtesy, but its to reflect the 
informal nature of our service. 
Communication 
Theres no dispute that Starling are aware of Ms Ws disabilities and her communication 
needs  those communication needs are contact by email only and between the hours 
9.00am to 5.00pm, Monday to Friday. Ms W says Starling have failed in their duty to make 
reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 2010. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into 
account when deciding this complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately 
decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Starling say Ms Ws communication needs are recorded on Ms Ws account and should be 
followed whenever they contact her. Starling say they dont have the means to send emails 
automatically as their primary communication method is via the app. Starling say Ms W will 
still receive messages in the app as this isnt a service theyre able to switch off. They say 
theyll do their best to make sure all written messages are also sent by email, but there may 
be times that it doesnt happen due to an automated message or their agent not selecting 
the email option. They say, as this involves their agents manually selecting that each 
message they send is also sent by email, it may be the case that occasionally Ms W might 
receive an in-app message without an accompanying email. They say, if this occurs, Ms W 
should let them know and theyll send the message by email. They say, whilst theyre doing 
their best to meet Ms Ws requirements, customisation is limited on their systems and 
theyve previously explained that due to this, theyre unable to guarantee that all 
communication will be via email at Ms Ws requested times.
Ms W has told us that, in order to manage her disabilities, she deals with her time in 
segments which is why its important that Starling adhere to her communication needs.      
Ms W says the impact on her when this isnt followed is significant and stops her doing other 
daily activities.  
I appreciate system limitations can sometimes prevent a business from switching off 
automated communication. And, I understand Starlings primary communication process 
involves an in-app message which theyre unable to prevent. I can also see there have been 
automated emails sent to our service in response to an email from our investigator. 
Again, this appears to be a system generated email which I understand Starling arent able 
to prevent. I do think however that Starling have tried to assist Ms W by putting in place a 
manual process which accommodates Ms Ws requirements by sending an email as well as 
an in-app message. 
That said, I do think there has been an error here. Starling say they operate a service 24 
hours a day, and seven days a week. So, I can understand automated in-app messages and emails might be sent to Ms W if she sends an email to Starling outside of her requested 
hours. I have however seen emails which have been sent to Ms W which arent automated 
and have been sent outside of the hours requested by Ms W. An example is an email dated 
20 August 2021 which was sent at 5.30pm. This email talks about a review to Ms Ws 
account to ensure the support they have in place is still relevant. Theres another email on 
21 August  which is a Saturday  saying Ms Ws account has been updated. These are 
manually written emails which have been sent outside of the hours, and days, requested by 
Ms W. While I note Starlings comments that emailing Ms W at the requested times is a 
highly manual process and cant always be done  I only accept this argument in the context 
of automated emails, and not emails which clearly, as shown in the examples Ive noted, 
have been manually written. Ms W has told us about the impact on her when she receives 
emails outside of her requested hours so I can understand why this had a significant impact 
on her. 
I can see Starling have asked to speak with our investigator via a video call or the deciding 
ombudsman to discuss, and show, how their systems work. I acknowledge Starlings request 
but I dont feel this is necessary as Ive already considered the point about Starlings system 
limitations which doesnt prevent automated communication from being sent. 
Handling of disputes 
Ms W has raised a number of disputes and I can see she has provided Starling with 
information from the merchants to support her disputes. Ms W says any communication 
needs to be clear and unambiguous. In my view, and given the number of disputes Ms W 
raised, Id expect any communication from Starling to be timely and include which dispute 
theyre referring to, clear timeframes and next steps. Looking through the information 
provided, I cant see thats always been the case. 
In Starlings complaint response in August 2021, they accept they made an error when 
handling Ms Ws dispute about company G and apologised Ms W didnt receive the 
customer service shes entitled to and that Ms W was left waiting without acknowledgement 
of her emails. Starling also accept there was an error in their handling of Ms Ws dispute 
about company S. Starling accept their agent couldve been clearer that the timeframe for 
clearing a pending balance was 30 days and not, as Ms W had been informed, eight days. 
They apologised for any inconvenience this has caused. Starling say the correct process 
was followed for reversing this transaction but they appreciate that being unable to utilise the 
funds within the account and waiting for a conclusion to the matter can be a frustrating and 
distressing experience for which they apologise. Starling also say a dispute was raised with 
them in August 2021 which was incorrectly linked to another dispute Ms W had ongoing at 
the time and wasnt raised as a retail dispute when it shouldve been. The position was 
corrected over two weeks later and Starling apologise this wasnt rectified sooner. For this 
last issue, Starling offered Ms W £50 compensation.     
In addition to this, I can see Ms W has been asked by Starling to provide information shes 
already sent to them and emails which contain only a reference but without further details 
about which dispute it relates to. I can see theres also confusion created by Starling 
responding to emails from Ms W but discussing a different dispute to the one Ms W has 
raised a query about. 
For example, Ms W raised a query about her dispute with company B and Starling respond 
with an update about company G. I can see our investigator had to speak with Starling to 
understand the position on the outstanding disputes and what information was required for 
each  so I understand why this became overwhelming for Ms W to the point that she 
couldnt clearly identify what was happening with each dispute. I understand it will be frustrating to receive a number of requests for information from 
Starling but I dont think its unreasonable for them to ask for further details and evidence to 
help prove Ms Ws dispute. 
Taking this all into account, I think there have been errors by Starling in their handling of    
Ms Ws disputes. So, I think they should pay compensation for the upset and frustration 
caused to Ms W. In addition to this, I think Starling should provide clear communication in 
relation to any outstanding disputes and let Ms W know if any money will be sent to her new 
account following a successful dispute.
 
Closing Ms Ws account 
In their complaint response in August 2021, Starling informed Ms W theyre closing her 
account. They say, under the terms and conditions of Ms Ws account, they can withdraw 
banking facilities by giving Ms W notice in writing, and in-line with company policy, they don't 
elaborate further on how theyve reached this decision. Starling say they cant provide any 
further information on this decision and their Customer Service team will be unable to 
provide any further clarification on this matter. Starling say Ms Ws account will be closed in 
60 days, and they set out steps Ms W will need to take for privacy and security purposes, as 
well as to prevent any issues with payments. Ms W switched her account within this time, so 
the account was closed before the end of the 60 days. 
I accept the terms and conditions allow Starling to end their banking relationship with Ms W 
and a bank is entitled to do so without giving a customer a reason for this. But, our service 
can look in to the circumstances as to why the account has been closed and the reason. 
Starlings decision to close Ms Ws account is set out in their complaint response which also 
talks about how Starling cant guarantee that all correspondence will be via email at the 
times Ms Ws indicated, so she may also wish to consider whether their service meets her 
needs. Therefore, I understand why Ms W believes Starlings decision has been based on 
her communication needs. I accept there might be circumstances where a business feels a 
customers communication requests are unreasonable or difficult for them to adhere to  but 
I cant see that shouldve been the case here. 
   
I dont think Ms Ws communication needs are unreasonable as its in line with the usual 
working hours and days for most places of work. I accept Starling cant control an automated 
response being sent to Ms W if she emails outside of her requested hours, but they can 
control, and prevent, any manually written emails from being sent outside of Ms Ws 
requested hours. So, while I dont think Starlings decision was fair, I also think theres an 
issue here with the timing of Starlings decision and the way in which it was communicated. 
That said, its clear from more recent communication that the relationship between Ms W 
and Starling has broken down. So, taking this into account as well as the fact that Ms W has 
opened an account with another bank, I dont think its reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint to ask Starling to re-open Ms Ws account.     
I can see that four days after sending this email to Ms W, Starling email again and explain to 
Ms W they have a note on their system describing Ms Ws disabilities and her 
communication needs. They say theyre currently reviewing their records and ask Ms W if 
shes happy for them to retain this note on their system or if she would prefer to remove or 
amend it. 
Ms W responds and says Starling are attempting to remove any record of her disabilities 
from their system so it doesnt appear as though this was the reason for closing her account. 
Starling respond and explain they contacted Ms W as part of their review to support 
customers by checking any requirements are still appropriate for them. They do accept this 
shouldnt have been sent to Ms W in view of the notice to close her account.   I dont think theres anything inherently wrong with a business having a process which 
involves reviewing accounts regularly to see whether any customer needs are still 
appropriate. In fact, I think its a positive approach to take as customer needs can change 
over time. But, given that Starling had issued a notice to close Ms Ws account only a few 
days earlier, I dont think the timing of this email was reasonable. And, its clear this email is 
manually written and not automated so it was within Starlings control not to send this. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Starling have made errors in their communication with Ms W, their 
handling of her disputes and their decision to close her account. So, Starling should pay    
Ms W compensation of £300 for the upset and frustration caused. I can see Starling have 
made an offer of £50 already which they say they would credit into Ms Ws account. I havent 
been provided with any information about whether this has been paid to Ms W but, if it has, 
then Starling should pay an additional £250 compensation to bring the total to £300. 
Starling should also send Ms W an update on any outstanding disputes with clear 
information identifying which dispute it relates to and the current position. This should 
continue through to the disputes being concluded. Starling should also continue to 
correspond with Ms W by email and in line with her requested times. Id also ask Starling to 
keep in mind the nature of the communication theyre sending. So, if they send a detailed 
update which requires a response from Ms W then to send this at a time which gives Ms W 
sufficient time to read the email and respond by 5.00pm on that day.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Starling Bank Limited must take the steps in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman