DRN-3333273
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that PrePay Technologies Limited trading as Prepay Solutions will not 
refund the money he lost after falling victim to a scam. 
PrePay Technologies Limited trading as Prepay Solutions is responsible for answering 
complaints about payment services provided by Monese Ltd. As Mr Ls account is Monese 
branded, I have referred to Monese throughout this decision. 
What happened
Between 9 January and 7 May 2021 Mr L made several payments from his Monese account 
ranging from £110 to £800 to a cryptocurrency provider. Mr L told us that around the middle 
of February 2021, a third party  who I will refer to as D - contacted him by email and 
provided information about the crypto markets. Following this, Mr L was convinced to invest 
his cryptocurrency via D. Mr L says he gave D access to his cryptocurrency wallet through a 
remote access desktop application. Mr L says he was given access to a trading platform that  
showed his assets. This platform turned out to be fake, which meant he wasnt able to 
withdraw his assets back to his wallet or bank account with Monese when he asked D. Mr L 
raised a complaint with Monese as he feels it should have protected him.
Monese said the payments to the cryptocurrency provider were not fraudulent and Mr L 
received the product (cryptocurrency) he purchased. It said the fraudulent transfer happened 
from the cryptocurrency provider to an alternative wallet elsewhere  so it is not responsible 
for the transactions.
The investigator did not uphold the complaint. He concluded that Mr L had already made 
several cryptocurrency purchases before the scammer contacted him and he wasnt tricked 
into making payments from his Monese account by the scammer.
Mr L did not agree with the investigators conclusions. I issued my provisional decision on 10 
June 2022 explaining why I was reaching the same outcome as the investigator but for 
slightly different reasons. Monese confirmed it accepted my provisional decision. Mr L did 
not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. For completeness, I 
have set this out below.
Theres no dispute in this case that Mr L authorised the disputed transactions. The Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 indicate that Monese should execute authorised payment 
instructions without undue delay  and there is a presumption that liability for an authorised 
payment rests with the payer, even if that authorisation was obtained by third-party fraud. 
I note Mr L has outlined a number of different obligations he feels applies to Monese when 
considering the disputed transactions. I agree the relevant law and regulations  plus good 
industry practice suggest Monese has a duty of care to protect its customers against the risk 
of fraud and scams. Monese might be negligent and liable for reasonably foreseeable losses 
if, in breach of that duty of care, it fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert 
a prudent authorised electronic money institution to potential fraud or financial crime by, or 
against, its customer. And Ive taken the above obligations into account when deciding if 
Monese acted fairly and reasonably when it processed Mr Ls instructions. 
Monese is not a bank and The Banking Protocol  which Mr L has mentioned  does not 
apply here as this is only relevant to branch-based transactions. However, in early 2021 
when Mr L made these payments to fraudsters - transaction monitoring was firmly 
established as good industry practice and applied to electronic money institutions. 
I also appreciate that the loss didnt arise from Mr Ls account with Monese. But, as a 
financial services professional, I think Monese would have been aware at the time that 
fraudsters use genuine firms offering cryptocurrency as a way of defrauding customers. 
Cryptocurrency scams had been increasing in frequency and both the FCA and Action Fraud 
had published specific warnings about these scams in 2018. 
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Monese shouldve been on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. So I need to decide whether Monese 
acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr L or whether it should have done more 
than it did. 
Having looked carefully at Mr Ls account, I dont think Monese would have had sufficient 
reason to be concerned that Mr L might have been at risk from financial harm from fraud. 
The pattern of transactions did not stand out as particularly out of character, especially as 
they took place over four months with gaps in between each transaction. The money Mr L 
transferred out - to what became established as an existing payee (the cryptocurrency 
provider) - were unremarkable in themselves with the largest amount being £800. Monese 
cant be involved in every transaction and I dont think the fact that payments were being 
sent to an unregulated business in itself means they should have flagged for concern.
As Ive said above, there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. It would be 
impossible to prevent all fraud without a significant number of genuine payments being 
delayed considerably and inconveniently. It remains that the payments werent fraud on the 
account itself. To the bank, they were genuinely authorised payments. And Mr L was 
confirming this was the case. On the face of it, it seems to me that there was no reason why 
the payments wouldnt have seemed genuine.
It is also worth noting that the majority of the payments were made to the cryptocurrency 
provider before Mr L was contacted by the scammer. So, even if Monese had contacted Mr L 
about those transactions (which as Ive explained above  I dont think it needed to) there 
was no scam for it to unravel.
Im very sorry as I know this will be disappointing news for Mr L and I understand Mr Ls 
strength of feeling about his complaint. Despite my natural sympathy for Mr L, who has been 
an innocent victim of a sophisticated scam, I am not persuaded that Monese acted in breach negligently  so it would be unfair and unreasonable to hold it liable for payments which, 
under the Regulations, Mr L must be regarded as having authorised. 
I dont consider Monese to have treated Mr L unfairly. Ultimately, Mr Ls loss is the result of a 
third parties actions and I dont think it would be fair to ask Monese to make good the loss 
when theres no evidence its done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman