DRN-3766339
The complaint
Ms S believes Studio Retail Limited trading as Ace acted irresponsibly by agreeing a 
revolving credit account shed applied for.
What happened
On 29 November 2018, Ms S opened a revolving credit account with Ace. They provided her 
with a credit limit of £200 which was increased six times to £1,325 by November 2020.
Ms S has complained that Ace didnt act responsibly when approving the account. Shes 
said it wasnt affordable and, had they properly assessed her financial circumstances at the 
time, they wouldnt have approved her application. Ace didnt agree theyd acted 
irresponsibly, so Ms S brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that the checks Ace had done when they approved Ms Ss application 
showed she had a significant amount of credit commitments and didnt have enough 
disposable income to support all her borrowing. He also said that Ms S was in a payment 
arrangement at the time of the application, which indicated financial difficulties. So, he didnt 
think Ace shouldve approved the application. And he said that Ace should remove all 
interest and charges from the account, and refund Ms S any overpayments.
Ace didnt agree. They provided further information and said that Ms S passed our lending 
thresholds to be accepted for both creditworthiness and affordability for a credit limit of 
£675. They also said that, although Ms S was in a payment arrangement, she didnt have 
any missed payments in the last six months, nor did she have any CCJs and hadnt been 
declared bankrupt. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
The investigator considered the additional information provided by Ace, but it didnt change 
his mind. So, Ace asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Ace complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms S 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Ace make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Ms S 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Ace act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Ace didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Ms Ss 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Ace complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms S would be 
able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Ms S declared that her income, at the time of the application, was £15,000 a year. Ace took 
this at face value and conducted a credit check to establish her regular outgoings. Ive seen 
a copy of the summary credit report that Ace undertook. This scorecard says that Ms S has 
a derogatory scorecard with nine active credit accounts and a disposable income of £-169 
and the applicant in an arrangement.
While, in their comments on the investigators view Ace have said that there were no 
arrangement indicators on the account this isnt supported by the credit summary theyve 
provided. Ace have also said that the -169 is an index used within the assessment  and 
not reflective of £ value when compared to customers actual disposable income. However, 
in their case notes, Ace have said the credit report shows [Ms S] had a negative -£169 
amount for disposable income ... the credit reference agency checks could not accurately 
verify their income, and this was not relied on exclusively in [our] decision making.
Based on what Ive seen and Aces comments, even though the credit limit was only £200, 
Im not satisfied that reasonable checks were carried out  there was an indication of 
financial difficulties (the arrangement) and of a lack of affordability (-£169 disposable 
income). As such, I think that Ace shouldve carried out more checks to establish Ms Ss 
actual income and expenditure, to see whether this account was affordable for her.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Ms S would be able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way?
Ms S has provided her bank statements for the period 15 May to 23 October 2018. Her 
account with Ace was opened on 29 November 2018 and, while I wouldnt necessarily have 
expected Ace to ask for bank statements, I think these statements give a good indication of 
what Ace would likely have discovered if theyd asked about Ms Ss income and expenditure 
at the time.
The bank statements for the three-month period before the account with Ace was opened 
show Ms S had an average income of £384.97 a month with average payments to her credit 
commitments of £301.70 a month. This would leave her with £83.27 a month disposable 
income. However, this figure doesnt take into consideration any housing costs 
(rent/mortgage, council tax, energy bills etc.) or any outgoings for food, clothing, transport 
etc. When these are taken into consideration, its clear that Ms S wasnt able to afford any 
additional credit. Which also matches with the negative disposable income Ace had 
calculated.
So, taking all this into consideration Im satisfied that, had Ace carried out proportionate 
checks, they wouldve seen that the finance wasnt affordable. And they therefore acted 
irresponsibly when approving the credit. So, they need to do something to put things right.
Did Ace act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?I havent seen anything to make me think Ace acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other 
way.
Putting things right
As I dont think that Ace acted fairly, I need to consider how to put Ms S back in the position 
she wouldve been in, if the finance hadnt been approved. But I also think that, as Ms S has 
purchased goods from Ace using this account, and had the benefit of these goods, she 
should be responsible for paying the cash price. But she shouldnt have to pay any interest 
or charges, including any Buy Now Pay Later interest.
So, Ace should:
close the account;
remove any negative information relating to this account from Ms Ss credit file;
remove all interest and charges applied to the account, and recalculate the balance 
based on the cash price of the goods purchased and the payments made by Ms S 
only;
oif the adjusted balance means that Ms S has paid more than the amount she 
borrowed, Ace should refund any overpayment along with 8% simple yearly 
interest  calculated from the date Ms S made the overpayments to the date of 
the refund  ;or
oif the adjusted balance means that Ms S still has an outstanding balance, Ace 
should treat her with due consideration and forbearance when agreeing an 
affordable repayment plan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Ace to take off tax from this interest. Ace must give Ms S 
a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Ms Ss complaint. Studio Retail Limited trading as 
Ace must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman