DRN-2303467
The complaint
Mr K complained that Barclays Bank Plc incorrectly retained his rent paying in book.
What happened
Mr K said he currently pays his landlord by bank transfer but, in the past, he had a paying in 
book for his landlord and had used this to pay his rent with cash.  
Mr K isnt sure of the exact date, but around three or four years ago, he and his wife went to 
Barclays and paid cash into their landlords account. The paying in book was full and could 
no longer be used, so Mr K said the Barclays cashier kept it. Mr K said he told the cashier 
that he needed the book as proof of payment, but the cashier refused to give it back to him. 
Mr K recently contacted his local council and was told hed been paying too much money 
into his landlords account for around seven years. Mr K said hed paid £100 a month when 
the council said it should have been £10. So Mr K is now in dispute with his landlord. 
Mr K complained to Barclays and said that without the paying in book, he has no way of 
proving how much he has overpaid his landlord. Mr K asked Barclays to compensate him for 
the amount of rent overpaid, which is around £6,000. 
Barclays said that because four years have passed, and without specific information about 
this incident, its unable to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Barclays said it contacted Mr Ks local 
branch and the manager there said it wouldnt usually retain paying in books, as these 
belong to the customer and act as proof of payment. So Barclays said there was no 
evidence it made an error. 
Mr K was unhappy with the response from Barclays and so complained to this service. He 
said he needs to know how much he has overpaid his landlord. He said he approached his 
landlord and asked him to provide him with details of payments hes made to him, but he 
said his landlord wants to charge him to look into this. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. He said theres no evidence that the cashier 
took the paying in book and suggested alternative ways that Mr K might look to resolve the 
dispute with his landlord. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr K about the situation he finds himself in, namely that he might have 
overpaid his landlord a significant amount of money over a lengthy period of time. And while 
hes provided this service with information about the dispute with his landlord, I dont intend 
to look at that matter here. Mr Ks complaint to this service is just about Barclays and 
whether or not it kept Mr Ks paying in book and whether it can be held responsible for Mr K 
not being able to show, without the book, that he might have overpaid his landlord.  
The difficulty here is that there is no way for me to know what was said between Mr K and 
the cashier or what happened to the paying in book, as I wasnt there. So I dont know if the 
paying in book was kept by the cashier.  
Barclays has said that, as a general rule, it would not usually retain paying in books as they 
need to be kept by customers as proof of what theyve paid. And because of the length of 
time thats passed, and because Mr K doesnt know exactly when the book might have been 
retained, Barclays havent been able to identify the cashier who might have been involved or 
been able to locate CCTV. And Im satisfied that Barclays arent at fault for not being able to 
find this information. 
What this means is that theres no evidence to suggest the paying in book was kept by the 
cashier at Barclays. While I dont mean to suggest that I doubt Mr Ks version of events, I 
dont think it would be fair to say that the paying in book was kept when theres no evidence 
to suggest it was and when Barclays wouldnt usually keep them. 
So Im satisfied that Barclays acted fairly when it said theres no evidence to suggest it 
retained Mr Ks paying in book three or four years ago. 
While I make no findings about this, I think its important to say that even if there was 
evidence that Barclays retained the paying in book, this would not necessarily mean that 
Barclays would be held responsible for the loss Mr K says hes suffered. This is because it 
was not Barclays that received the overpayments - the dispute about possible overpayments 
is between Mr K and his landlord. 
I dont intend to repeat the suggestions made by our investigator about how else Mr K might 
look to resolve this issue, but I will remind Mr K that these options are open to him.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman