DRN-2062204
The complaint
Mr T complained because National Westminster Bank Plc refused to refund him for 
£10,073.40 of transactions, which he said he didnt authorise.
What happened
Throughout 2019, Mr Ts NatWest account balance was generally well under £1,000. In late 
December, larger sums, initially around £250 at a time, started to be paid in. Much larger 
amounts were paid in in early January 2020. By mid-January, Mr Ts balance was over 
£11,000.
On 16 January 2020 Mr T authorised a £2 debit at a nightclub at 1.56am. He said this was 
his last genuine transaction. 
At 2.41 am the same day, there was a £250  cash withdrawal at a machine within a short 
distance of the nightclub. The next day, there was the first of a series of payments and cash 
machine withdrawals abroad, starting with the equivalent of £438.37. There were 46 
payments totalling £10,073.40 made between 17 January and 12 February. These were 
verified using Mr Ts genuine card and correct PIN.
The last disputed transaction took place at 19:02 on 12 February. Later that evening, Mr T 
rang NatWest and said his card had been stolen, and there had been fraudulent  
transactions here and abroad. NatWest stopped the card and issued Mr T with a 
replacement, which Mr T started using straightaway.
NatWest completed its investigation into the disputed transactions. But it didnt agree that 
the disputed transactions had been carried out fraudulently. It said that:
- there had been multiple credits to Mr Ts account shortly before the alleged fraud, but 
Mr T had said he hadnt tried to use the card during that time because he had an 
account elsewhere; 
- Mr T usually used his card extensively, so it was exceptional that he hadnt tried to 
use the account for over six weeks;
- there had been a five day gap between some of the disputed transactions, which 
wasnt what a fraudster would do;
- Mr T had told NatWest he hadnt been abroad, but when NatWests adviser spoke to 
Mr T it sounded as if he was abroad.
So NatWest refused to refund Mr T for the disputed payments.
Mr T wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He told the investigator that the 
incoming payments in December had come from a group of friends who all send money to 
one person in the group each month. He couldnt remember why hed also transferred in 
more than £5,000 from other accounts.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. He thought it wasnt a coincidence that Mr 
Ts balance had increased so much just before the disputed transactions. And the gap 
between transactions would be unlikely for a fraudster. The investigator also pointed out that 
not realising for a month that a card was missing was unusual, especially as Mr T had been 
using it regularly.
Mr T didnt agree and said the investigators view was wrong and unfair. He asked for an 
ombudsman decision. Mr T said it was NatWests responsibility to keep his savings safe, 
and it had failed to protect his money against fraud. He said he hadnt realised the card was 
missing because it wasnt the card he usually used. He wanted a refund which he said was 
his right as a customer, otherwise hed have no option but to take it to court. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in January and February 
2020 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service 
provider (here, NatWest) must show the payment was authenticated. Thats the technical 
part, and here, Ive checked NatWests evidence which shows that Mr Ts genuine card with 
its chip, and the correct PIN, were used. So the disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. Mr T has said he has a right to a refund, 
but thats only if he didnt authorise the payments. So Ive gone on to consider whether its 
most likely that Mr T did or didnt authorise the payments himself.
Its possible that Mr Ts card might have been stolen at the nightclub on 16 January, after he 
authorised the £2 transaction. But Mr T said he didnt have his PIN written down, so theres 
no explanation for why a fraudster would have known the correct four-digit PIN. This was 
first entered at a nearby cash machine under an hour later, and used correctly again for all 
the disputed payments.  
A key factor is that the disputed transactions dont follow the normal pattern of use by a 
fraudster. Fraudsters take out as much as they can, as quickly as they can, in case the card 
is reported stolen and stopped. But that isnt what happened here. Sometimes the maximum 
daily amount was taken out at a cash machine, but not always. The maximum daily 
withdrawal wasnt taken out at all after 23 January. And there was a five day gap between 23 
and 29 January, despite the fact there was still over £8,000 in the account at that point. 
None of this is typical of what a fraudster would do.
Mr T told us that the reason he didnt know his card was missing was that he had another 
account with a different bank. But that doesnt tally with the recent transactions of Mr Ts 
NatWest account. Hed used it regularly, often several times a day. It seems unlikely that he 
would suddenly have stopped using the card, especially after a large number of unusual 
credits had been paid into the account. So I find it improbable that Mr T wouldnt have 
noticed his card was missing for six weeks.
Mr T also told NatWest that he hadnt been abroad at the time of the disputed transactions. 
Hes provided statements for his other bank account, which show there were a few very 
small UK-based transactions which went through that account during the period of the 
disputed transactions. On the other hand, Mr Ts NatWest statement shows a payment to an 
airline not long before the period of the dispute. And NatWest staff believed from the phone 
call they had with Mr T that the caller was abroad. So its not possible to say for certain 
whether Mr T was or wasnt abroad during the time of the disputed transactions. In any case, Mr T could have given either card and PIN to a third party. He might have stayed in the UK 
and given the NatWest card and PIN to a third party. Or he might have gone abroad and 
given the other bank card and PIN to a third party. In either case, willingly giving his card and 
PIN to a third party counts as Mr T authorising the transactions, and means he wouldnt 
qualify for a refund.
So there is
- nothing to show how any fraudster might have obtained the correct PIN for Mr Ts 
card, which was used throughout;
- the disputed transactions are very different from those which a typical fraudster 
would conduct;
- I find it unlikely that Mr T wouldnt have realised his card was missing for six weeks, 
because he used the card multiple times a day, and hed recently received a number 
of atypical large credits into the account.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its most likely that Mr T carried out the 
disputed transactions himself, or that he willingly gave his genuine card and correct PIN to  
third party. So I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman