DRN-3029789
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was poorly advised by Towergate Financial (East) Limited 
(Towergate), trading at the time of the advice as M2 Financial Limited. And that this led to 
the transfer of the benefits from his former employers defined benefit pension scheme into a 
personal pension plan. He feels he is worse off due to the transfer.
What happened
Mr S was approached in 2007 on behalf of his former employer. He was asked if hed be 
interested in transferring his deferred benefits from his former employers pension scheme. 
And whether he wanted a detailed quotation. He was told to get independent financial advice 
before acting. And that Towergate could provide this service, with costs being met by his 
former employer.
Mr S accepted the invitation. And initially met with Towergate on 3 November 2007. They 
gathered information about Mr Ss circumstances, objectives and risk appetite. According to 
the fact find, he was 29 at the time of the advice. He was single with no dependent children. 
And had an annual salary of around £22,500.
Mr S had two periods of service with his former employer and therefore two deferred 
pensions in their scheme. The first period of service was from 5 January 1998 to 25 July 
1998. And the second was from 26 September 1998 to 4 August 2006. 
Towergate advised Mr S that the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the benefits 
fromhis first period of service was £640. However, his former employer had offered him an 
additional £1,045 if he was prepared to transfer away from the scheme. They also advised 
that the CETV for the benefits from the second period of service was £8,976. But an 
additional £16,411 was available if Mr S was prepared to transfer away from the scheme. It 
was also possible for Mr S to take the enhancements as cash. But it would be subject to tax 
and national insurance.
Mr S was provided with a number of Suitability Reports. The first batch were produced on 3 
November 2007. These advised Mr S not to transfer his benefits from his former employers 
scheme. But the reports flagged Mr Ss right to transfer on an insistent client basis. And told 
him what would happen if he wanted to follow this path.
Two more reports were provided. Although these were dated 11 March 2007 and 11 
November 2007 respectively, the contents suggest that at least some of the drafting was 
carried out after Mr Ss decision on 26 November 2007 to become an insistent client. 
Mr S decided to transfer the basic CETVs to a personal pension plan. But to take the 
enhancements as cash. He completed the paperwork Towergate provided which identified 
him as an insistent client. This meant he went ahead with the transfer against Towergates 
recommendation. 
In 2017, Towergate were instructed by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
to conduct a review of past advice theyd given around the transfer of pension benefits from 
occupational pension schemes. As part of this review process, Towergate approached Mr S 
in 2020 and asked him to complete a questionnaire about what had happened to him so that 
his case could be reviewed. 
After this, Towergate sent Mr S two letters in July 2020 which detailed the results of 
thereview. They said theyd identified a number of areas where the advice process theyd 
followed with him couldve been improved on. But they were satisfied that this hadnt 
affected his decision to transfer. 
Mr S was unhappy with this. So he brought his complaint to this service. He felt hed lost out 
financially by transferring his pension benefits. He told us hed been persuaded against his 
best interests into taking the decision and that hed been young and nave at the time. He 
also knew of former colleagues whod received compensation payments. And felt he should 
also be compensated as hed received similar advice.
Mr S then referred his complaint to our service, where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. She didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She observed that the starting 
point of a consideration of the suitability of a transfer was that it would be unsuitable, unless 
it could be demonstrated otherwise. But she was satisfied that Mr S truly was an insistent 
client. This was because she considered he wouldve gone ahead with the transfer 
regardless of the recommendation, as he wanted to use the additional payments to clear 
debts. She felt that Towergate gave a suitable recommendation and followed the guidance 
on progressing the transfer on an insistent-client basis. And therefore didnt think that 
Towergate had done anything wrong.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that Towergate had an incorrect date of birth 
for him, which had resulted in a delay in him receiving the payout form his OPS. And it was 
him chasing the payment, he said, which had made him appear insistent. He didnt think 
that, as others had received a payout in respect of the transfers, it was fair that he should 
miss out. As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing for Mr S. Ill 
explain my reasons for this decision.
I agree with our investigator that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) explains that the 
starting point, when providing advice about whether to transfer a defined benefit pension 
plan, is to assume the transfer is unsuitable. And that an adviser should therefore only 
recommend the transfer if there was clear evidence it would be in the clients best interests. 
So Ive considered all the evidence and information provided by both Mr S and Towergate to 
assess whether the advice he received was suitable and in his best interests.
Ive also considered the outcome of the 2020 review into the advice Mr S was given. In 
particular, Ive taken into account that Towergate said they shouldve compared the benefits 
available from the former employers scheme with those available from a Personal Pension 
at age 57 years and 8 months (approximately), rather than 65. They explained this was 
because although the former employers scheme had a normal retirement age of 65, 
Towergate had assessed that Mr S wouldve been entitled to receive his pension without 
reduction for early retirement at around age 57 years and 8 months. 
Was Towergates recommendation not to transfer suitable?Ive also looked at all of Towergates Suitability Reports. While I can see that at least two of 
these reports arent dated correctly, I consider that they were written around the time of the 
advice. I say this because of the dates they were signed and the information they contain. 
None of the Suitability Reports recommended that Mr S transfer out of his former employers 
pension scheme. This is in line with the FCA guidelines mentioned above. 
Towergate conducted a fact find about Mr S at the time of the advice. This indicated that his 
top three retirement priorities were to:
increase his pension, 
access tax-free lump sums 
and have security of his pension fund. 
But its evident that Mr S had additional priorities at the time of the advice. He told Towergate 
he had debts and that his partner was pregnant with their first child. He also wanted to start 
saving for a home. So Mr S had other needs at the time of the advice that he had to consider 
when coming to a decision.
From the Suitability Reports, Im satisfied that Towergate made it clear that transferring out 
of his former employers scheme didnt meet his top retirement priority. The reports showed 
that hed potentially be worse off at retirement at age 65 if he took the enhancement as cash 
as hed indicated. While the reports show that there was a possibility that Mr S couldve 
received slightly more pension at age 65 if he transferred the enhancement as well, rather 
than taking it as cash, this was not an option Mr S was considering, given his other priorities.
The first report explained that the tax-free cash available from the defined benefit scheme 
was dependent on the schemes conversion rate. And noted that the conversion rate is less 
beneficial than could be achieved under a personal pension. But the reports didnt quantify 
how much less beneficial this might be. So Im not persuaded that this wouldve been a 
significant factor in Mr Ss decision. The reports also covered Mr Ss third retirement priority 
of having security with his pension fund. The report stated:
I refer in particular to the fact that you have stated that the security of your pension fund is a 
high priority for you, and that the security of a final salary pension scheme is generally 
superior to a personal pension scheme, in that the trustees are bound to provide 'promised' 
income in retirement. This is a key reason not to transfer.
The reports also showed the annual investment return that Mr S would need to achieve to 
receive retirement benefits of equivalent value to the benefits he was considering 
transferring  the critical yield. This was calculated as 6.6% for Mr Ss first period of service 
(6.5% for his second period of service), assuming he transferred the enhanced value. But it 
increased to 9.6% (9.7% for the second period of service) if he took the enhancement as a 
cash lump sum instead. Mr S intended to take the enhancement as a cash lump sum, so the 
relevant critical yields were 9.6% and 9.7%.
Mr S had been assessed as a 5 out of 10 on Towergates attitude to risk scale. This 
identified him as a balanced investor. The relatively high levels of critical yields meant that 
Mr S would need to take a relatively high level of risk with his personal pension investments 
in order to get a similar or better outcome at retirement than he wouldve got without 
transferring. But this wouldnt have been in line with his attitude to risk. So Im satisfied that 
Towergate acted fairly and reasonably when they didnt recommend the transfers as the 
level of risk wasnt in line with Mr Ss attitude to risk.Given Mr Ss retirement priorities, attitude to risk and the high critical yields, Im satisfied that 
Towergate acted reasonably when they didnt recommend the transfers. And I consider that 
they made it clear that they werent recommending the transfer in their reports, as both of the 
Suitability Reports dated 3 November 2007 state:
WE RECOMMEND THAT YOU DO NOT TRANSFER
I recommend that you do not transfer away from the [scheme name] because the transfer 
value offered including the additional payment when transferred into an alternative 
arrangement is unlikely to produce higher retirement benefits and it is likely to involve higher 
risk. 
During the 2020 review of their advice, Towergate said they shouldve compared the benefits 
available from the former employers scheme with those available from a personal pension 
at age 57 years and 8 months (approximately), rather than 65. This wouldve made an even 
stronger case for not recommending the transfer, as the critical yield wouldve increased, 
reflecting the greater value of the benefit being given up. They asked Mr S a number of 
questions about how this had affected his decision in a questionnaire in June 2002. 
The questionnaire asked Mr S what he understood about the level of benefits available from 
his former employers scheme at age 58 years and 4 (sic) months compared with those 
available at 65. Mr S replied:
Didnt really understand any of it as I was in a bad place due to debt. All I can remember is 
that I could get £10,000. I was desperate at the time.
He explained this was because hed been:
made redundant, plus being in debt with credit cards and loans and worrying about 
providing for my future family. 
Ive carefully considered what both Towergate and Mr S have said. I can see that Towergate 
did make an error as they didnt fully cover Mr Ss particular early retirement terms. But Im 
not persuaded that Mr S wouldve decided not to transfer if the error hadnt been made. I say 
this because Im satisfied that Mr Ss main priority at the time of the advice was to clear his 
debts. And in any case, even on the basis of the incorrect assumption, the recommendation 
was to not transfer. Im satisfied that Towergates recommendation not to transfer was 
suitable.  
Ill now consider if Towergate acted reasonably when they treated Mr S as an insistent 
client. 
Was Mr S an insistent client?
Having received Towergates recommendation not to transfer, Mr S wrote to Towergate on 
26 November 2007. He said hed like to go against their recommendation and proceed as an 
insistent client. He explained why hed decided this in his note: 
As I have debts to clear and would like to start saving for a deposit on a home, I am 
therefore an insistent customer.
The fact find Mr S had completed had also indicated that he wanted to be debt-free. So this 
note was in line with Towergates previous understanding of their client. I can also see that Mr S completed a questionnaire for Towergate as part of the advice 
review process. One of the questions this asked was why hed gone against Towergates 
advice. Mr S gave his reasons at the time as follows:
My girlfriend at the time was pregnant with our first child. I got £30,000 as I got made 
redundant but had to pay £25,000 for our debt with loans and credit cards.
Its clear that the offer to transfer came at a difficult time for Mr S. Hed been made 
redundant, was in debt and expecting his first child. So I understand why he decided he 
wanted to accept the enhancements offered as cash lump sums. And Im satisfied that he 
wanted to go against Towergates recommendation. Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied 
Mr S truly was an insistent client. This is because Im satisfied that he wouldve gone ahead 
with the transfer, regardless of Towergates recommendation.
Having satisfied myself that Mr S was an insistent client, Ive also considered whether 
Towergate followed the regulators guidance for firms dealing with transactions on an 
insistent client basis. As our investigator noted, the relevant rules are found in COBS 
5.3.25R:
If contrary to the advice of the firm, a private customer instructs the firm to arrange a 
pension opt-out or pension transfer, the firm must:
(1) Make and retain a clear record of the firms advice that the private customer should not 
proceed with the pension opt-out or pension transfer and the private customers instructions 
to proceed with the transaction; and
(2) Provide a further confirmation and explanation, in writing, to the private customer that the 
firms advice is that the private customer should not proceed with the pension opt-out or 
pension transfer.
Towergates first Suitability Reports advised Mr S not to transfer. He then wrote to them  
confirming he wanted to proceed as an insistent client, which adheres to the regulators 
good practice example of evidencing a customers insistent nature. Towergate then 
produced two further Suitability Reports which further explained their recommendation not to 
transfer. Based on what Ive seen, Towergate followed the regulators guidance. So Ive no 
evidence of them doing anything wrong here.
Ill now consider the other issues that have been raised.
Other issues
In their final response letter, Towergate noted that the review of their advice identified that 
the personal pension plan that Mr S had transferred into may not have been the most 
appropriate solution for him. They said this was because an incorrect retirement age had 
potentially been set for the plan. This was because Mr S had stated a preferred retirement 
age of 60 in the fact find completed at the time of the advice. But the application form for the 
personal pension plan had recorded a retirement age of 65. Towergate noted that Mr S had 
recently returned their questionnaire. But hadnt specified when he intended to retire. 
Towergate said that theyd explained early retirement in the Suitability Reports. And that they 
were satisfied that theyd correctly told Mr S not to transfer out his benefits. They felt it 
wasnt reasonable to conclude that Mr S wouldve decided to follow their recommendations if 
theyd gone into further detail of Mr Ss benefits at age 60. 
Having looked at the information Towergate provided at the time of the advice, and considering what both Towergate and Mr S have said, Im satisfied that Mr S wouldnt have 
followed Towergates recommendation not to transfer if theyd gone into further detail about 
his benefits at age 60 in their reports. This is because Im persuaded that Mr Ss overriding 
priority at the time of the advice was his need for cash, for all the reasons previously 
mentioned. Im also satisfied that Mr S should be able to amend his retirement age in his 
personal pension plan if he wants to.
I acknowledge that Mr S has said that Towergate had an incorrect date of birth for him. The 
only evidence Ive seen for this is an undated Client Response Form which records his date 
of birth as two years later than all other records Ive seen. So Ive found no evidence that this 
impacted the advice. I also consider that Mr S thinks hes been referred to as an insistent 
client because he had to chase the lump sum payment. But thats not correct. Hes been 
classed as an insistent client because he chose to go against what Towergate 
recommended for him, but still wanted them to carry out the transfer for him against their 
advice.
I also acknowledge that Mr S said that people he knew had received compensation in similar 
circumstances to his. Towergate addressed this point in their final response letter. They said:
We empathise that you may be disappointed that somebody you know received redress 
when you didnt, but the specifics of your case do not warrant redress.
I agree with Towergate here. Although I understand where Mr S is coming from, Ive not 
found any evidence that he should be compensated for Towergates advice. And we very 
much look at individual circumstances in each case  as were required to.
I know this will be disappointing to Mr S, but Ive not been able to find anything wrong with 
Towergates advice to not recommend the transfer. So I dont consider that any 
compensation is due here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman