DRN-1752823
The complaint
Mr S complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant) gave hm a loan that was unaffordable 
and it didnt do enough checks before lending to him. 
What happened
Mr S took one loan from Avant in March 2016 for £2000 and agreed to repay it in 12 monthly 
instalments of around £220. Mr S says that he was struggling at the time and the 
repayments were unaffordable. Mr S fell into arrears and he now has a County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) against him for the debt. He wants the CCJ removed and an affordable 
repayment plan set up together with a refund of all interest and charges.
 
Mr Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He sent a letter to both 
parties explaining why he didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He concluded that Avant didnt 
need to carry out any further checks at the time it granted the loan to Mr S and it didnt do 
anything wrong when giving him the loan. 
Mr S didnt agree with our adjudicator and replied to say in summary that his credit file 
showed the difficulty he was in. He sent a copy of his credit file with his request for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Avant needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr S could 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Avant should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Avant did a number of checks before it lent to Mr S. It asked him for details of his income 
and his normal expenditure. Mr S said he was earning £5460 per month and his outgoings 
were £1850. It gathered data from credit reference agencies. And it then used this 
information to calculate how much disposable income Mr S had left over each month. Avant 
also used the credit reference agency checks to gather some more information about Mr Ss 
financial situation at that time.
Mr S has told our service that his finances were under significant pressure at the time 
he applied for the loan with Avant and that it should have picked up on this. But this was the 
first time Mr S had approached Avant for a loan from what I have seen, I dont think there 
was any reason for Avant to doubt the information Mr S had provided about his income and 
expenditure.
In addition, I have seen results from the credit checks that Avant carried out at the time. 
These checks failed to show any information that might have suggested Mr S was having 
problems managing his money. The checks appeared to tally with the information Mr S had 
given about his income and outgoings and although there were defaulted accounts, the most 
recent was four months ago and generally Mr Ss credit accounts appeared well maintained. 
The credit check didnt show any concerning information such as a reliance on other short-
term loans.
 
In saying that I think it is important to note that, generally, the information a consumer might 
see, when they request a copy of their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a 
lender. A lender might only see a small portion of the credit file, or some data might be 
missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So, this may explain why Mr S 
says that he was having problems managing his money at the time the loan was granted but 
this was not reflected in the credit search information collated by Avant at the time.
The repayments that Mr S had agreed to make on his loan were relatively modest compared 
to the income that hed declared to Avant and Avant had verified. So, based on what he had 
told Avant and the credit checks it carried out, the repayments appeared to be easily 
affordable. So given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time, and his lack of borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Avant to ask him for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable. So, I dont think Avant was wrong to give 
this loan to Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
30 October 2020.
 
Emma BoothroydOmbudsman