DRN-3746569
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about the advice she received from Aviva Life Services UK Limited 
(Aviva) to invest into an AXA Close UK Escalator 100 Fund (AXA fund) within an 
Investment Bond. She says there were alternatives available at the time that offered better 
returns with capital protection.
Mrs L is being represented by a claims management company but for ease of reference I will 
be referring to Mrs L in my decision. 
What happened
In 2004 Mrs L was advised to invest £5,000 into the AXA fund. The fund was surrendered in 
2009 for £5,571.46. Mrs L believes that she should have been advised to invest for capital 
protection and without the risk that her fund would not make any return. She should not have 
been advised to invest such a large percentage of her money into the AXA fund. Mrs L 
raised a complaint with Aviva. In its response it said;
At the time of the sale Mrs L had already set up a deposit based account, said she 
was looking for better returns and wanted investment for the medium to long term. 
The Investment Bond was recommended, and an appropriate fund could be selected. 
It was recorded that Mrs L had a highly secure attitude to risk and wanted an 
element of capital appreciation. 
The AXA Close UK Escalator 100 Fund was the most appropriate for Mrs Ls attitude 
to risk. It was explained to her how the fund worked and how the capital was 
protected.
Mrs L had been asked to check the details recorded in the fact find to ensure they 
were correct. In any event the investment only represented 55.55% of Mrs Ls 
available capital. And she didnt have any other equity based investments. 
The investment was affordable, and it was recorded in the fact find that Mrs L was 
living comfortably.
Mrs L was provided with all the necessary documents before she agreed with the 
investment. There was no evidence of a mis-sale. 
Mrs L wasnt happy with the outcome and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said;
Mrs L had £8,000 available from her endowment investment and didnt think £5,000 
into a low-medium risk investment was excessive.
Mrs L also had £10,000 in an emergency fund and £80,000 in cash and deposits so 
there wasnt an affordability issue.
If Mrs L didnt agree with what assets were recorded she should have checked the 
fact find details as she was advised to do. Aviva based is recommendation on that 
information.
The low-medium risk of the fund was a fair reflection of Mrs Ls attitude to risk and in 
line with her medium to long term investment goal.
It wasnt her role to consider what alternative advice could have been given. 
Mrs L didnt agree; 
It wasnt practical for her have checked all the information the adviser recorded. She 
was just given the completed paperwork and told where to sign. 
The adviser had been careless in recording the assets held. 
The £80,000 recorded was incorrect. Mrs L had no knowledge of this when asked to 
sign the paperwork nor any reason to think the advice would have been different if it 
had been corrected. 
The investment itself was not highly secure as referred to in the paperwork. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Mrs Ls circumstances
When Aviva gave advice to Mrs L it needed to take into account her personal and financial 
circumstances to ensure the advice it did give was suitable for her. Aviva has been able to 
give us a copy of the fact find completed at the time of the sale and which is signed and 
dated by Mrs L. 
Its recorded that Mrs L was looking for investment planning. She had a current lump sum of 
£5,000 available for investment and was looking for capital growth. Her investment attitude 
was recorded as being highly secure. 
Mrs L was divorced and had four grown up independent children. She was disabled but in 
fair health. Mrs L received £3,480 disability living allowance (but appreciated this was 
means tested and not guaranteed), a pension of £1,920 per annum and a state pension of 
£88 per week. Her net monthly income was recorded as being £800.
Mrs L had £1,000 in a bank account to cover her day to day bills and had recently received 
£8,000 from a maturing endowment. She wanted to invest £5,000 of that over the medium to 
long term  five years  taking a highly secure approach. Mrs L didnt have any stock market 
experience but was aware stock market values can fluctuate and future performance 
couldnt be guaranteed. She wasnt keen on stock market investments. She was willing to 
consider capital protected products. 
Mrs Ls assets were recorded as being her property valued at £150,000, an emergency fund 
of £10,000 and deposits and cash of £80,000. I should say at this point Mrs Ls CMC feels 
the latter two figures should read £1,000 and £8,000 and I accept this a possibility as that 
does tie in with the other information recorded above. 
Mrs L didnt have any liabilities. No monthly mortgage payments were listed so I assume she 
owned her property outright. Monthly household costs and other outgoings totalled £700 and Mrs L advised she lived within her means and enjoys spending her disposable income on 
her 4 children and 14 grand-children.
Attitude to risk
For this investment, Mrs Ls attitude to risk was recorded as being highly secure. I have 
considered how this came about and how Aviva made her aware of the varying levels of risk 
implicit in different investments, particularly bearing in mind she was a novice investor. Mrs L 
was seeking advice because she didnt have the knowledge or experience to make such an 
investment decision unaided. So, Aviva needs to demonstrate that it gave suitable advice 
taking into account Mrs Ls circumstances, understanding and knowledge after ascertaining 
Mrs Ls attitude to risk.
Im not convinced that Aviva has been able to show us how it came to the conclusion that 
Mrs L was a highly secure investor, but overall, I think this was most likely discussed and 
agreed and from what I have seen, was appropriate for her. Even though I dont have 
evidence that the risk of investing was explained to Mrs L  after taking into account her 
ability to understand investment risk and clarification of her experience or knowledge to 
understand the risk involved  I think she reasonably understood the risk of the investment 
as evidenced about her comments about not being keen on stock market investments.
Its recorded in the fact find that;
Client has not previously held stock market products so we generically discussed 
how stock market products values can fluctuate and how past performance is no 
indication of future returns.
Client advised that she is seeking potentially greater returns than can be achieved 
from deposit based account. whilst Mrs L is not keen on stock market related 
products she is willing to consider capital protected products. 
So taking all of this into account, I think the levels of risk implicit in investing were discussed 
with Mrs L and she was content to expose his investment money to a highly secure level of 
risk for a £5,000 of her available assets in order to achieve the potential of capital growth 
over the medium to long term.
The advice
While Im satisfied it was most likely the case that Mrs Ls attitude to risk was assessed by 
the adviser  even though it was only as far as was recorded in the fact find and theres no 
evidence of how Mrs Ls attitude to risk was actually assessed  Ive considered whether 
what was recommended to her was right for her circumstances and financial objectives.
As Ive said above, without any investment experience Mrs L would have been totally reliant 
upon the advice given to her. And Ive borne in mind what shed done previously with her 
money  by putting it in an endowment policy and then the risk-free environment of an 
instant access account.
Mrs L has argued that the risk she was exposed to was too high a risk for her and better 
growth could have been received elsewhere with the capital protection she required. But Ive 
seen nothing to conclude this was the case. As mentioned above its recorded that Mrs Ls 
investment objective was for the potential for capital growth so it seems likely that Mrs L did 
want to explore the opportunity to make her money grow more than it would do in a bank 
account, albeit with her capital protected. Taking everything into consideration Im persuaded 
it was more likely that Mrs L was willing to take some risk with her money within the remit of 
it being highly secure.The recommendation letter issued subsequent to the meeting Mrs L had with her adviser 
confirmed it had been concluded that you wished to have the potential in the longer term;
To have access to the potential greater returns available from investment in equities
Of producing capital growth
Of producing higher capital growth than your current portfolio
To have an element of capital protection and access to the potential greater returns 
available from investment with exposure to the stockmarket
To have an element of capital protection
In order to meet Mrs Ls need, an Investment Bond was recommended which it said 
matched her attitude to risk. The suitability letter confirmed that Mrs L had been given a copy 
of the Investment Funds guide and that the Key Features Document and Illustration had 
been discussed at the meeting. It also stated that Mrs L had confirmed the contribution was 
affordable and she was left with adequate funds for her immediate, short term and 
emergency needs. The Personal Financial Review  the fact find  was also included and 
which Mrs L was asked Please can you check it carefully for errors or omissions and notify 
AXA of any changes. A prepaid envelope is enclosed for your use. 
I appreciate Mrs Ls point that the information about her assets - £10,000 and £80,000 rather 
than the more likely £1,000 and £8,000  may have been mis recorded. The latter figures 
tally with the commentary recorded earlier in the document. But it was for Mrs L to check the 
fact find and as indicated in the above correspondence it was for Mrs L to check for any 
errors or omissions. And this opportunity to correct misinformation was given to her after the 
meeting so I dont agree that Mrs L was just given the completed paperwork to sign. She 
was given the opportunity to check what was recorded after the meeting. 
In any event, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the investment was unaffordable for Mrs L. If 
the figures were actually £1,000 and £8,000 this would still have left £3,000 available from 
the endowment policy for emergencies if Mrs L had needed it. 
I cant see theres any record of the discussion about the merits of the Fund that was to be 
invested into via the Investment Bond. The Illustration referred to in the suitability letter does 
refer to the AXA Close UK Escalator 100 Fund, but the Key Features Document only refers 
to the Investment Bond itself and not the actual fund. But I have seen a copy of the fund 
guide from 2003 which Mrs L was also given a copy of. 
That guide provides a clear glossary of terms used, a guide to investment in plain English 
as well as information about the fund managers and details of the funds themselves. 
Amongst other information for the AXA Close UK Escalator 100 Fund it says;
This fund aims to provide a level of protection to your capital by locking in gains and 
offering a protected unit price on the next quarterly date. 
The value of your investment could be reduced if;
(a) the growth in the unit price is less than our charges as we will cancel units to 
meet our charges over time, so you will have fewer units, l
(b) the growth in the underlying fund is less than the additional fund management 
charges and tax charges for the underlying fund. 
The fund is included in the section of Highly Secure Funds where it says;You are prepared to experience the possibility of slight fluctuations in the value of 
your capital.
Aim; the fund aims to provide investors with an exposure to some of the rise in the 
FTSE 100 share index coupled with protecting capital against falls. Product charges 
may reduce the value of your investment as units will be cancelled to meet our 
charges.
Profile; the managers provide security by investing a significant proportion of the 
fund in assets, including cash, that are designed to protect the capital invested.
Aviva gave this fund the lowest risk rating of all of the funds it offered. The Category for 
Cash was recorded as being Protected and given a grade of 1. Avivas risk rating system 
went up to a Speculative rating and a grade of 9. The AXA Close UK Escalator 100 Fund 
was given a Category of 2. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that this was an unreasonable risk rating for Aviva to have given 
for this fund. So, I dont find that this fund was too high risk for Mrs L as it matched Avivas 
definition of Highly Secure which was Mrs Ls chosen attitude to risk. I accept that Mrs L 
has concerns about the fund having its capital protected but I cant see that she has suffered 
any financial detriment by being invested in the fund.  
As Ive said I think its more likely Mrs L was given sufficient information for her to be aware 
of the varying levels of risk and potential rewards implicit in different types of investments. 
So, Im satisfied she was made aware of the alternatives that were available to her. 
However, I do appreciate that there were probably lower than Highly Secure risk options 
available to Mrs L at the time that could have potentially offered her better returns than 
savings. But my role isnt to re-visit the advice that she was given and what other options 
were potentially available to her. Rather its to consider whether the advice that was given to 
Mrs L was suitable for her at the time and as identified prior to the investment and whether it 
was sufficiently explained to her.
Taking all of the above into consideration, and in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont have anything for me to conclude that the advice given to Mrs L was 
unsuitable for her bearing in mind her personal and financial circumstances, her attitude to 
risk and her investment requirements. It follows that I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
No doubt Mrs L will be disappointed with my conclusion, but I hope I have been able to 
explain how and why I have reached it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman