DRN-2692685
The complaint
Mr M and Mr M, on behalf of the estate of Mrs M, are unhappy that Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited (Lloyds) made a mistake which left them without buildings insurance, and 
they complain that its offer of compensation isnt enough.
Mr M and Mr M are executors of their late-mothers estate and jointly responsible for 
buildings insurance with Lloyds for the house. For ease, Ill refer only to Mr M throughout my 
decision.
What happened
Lloyds provided buildings insurance for the unoccupied property, with a condition that it must 
be visited weekly and that cover would end if the property remained unoccupied after 12 
months. Lloyds confirmed the date on which cover would end.
Mr M received insurance renewal documents two weeks before the policy was due to end. 
He assumed that Lloyds had decided to offer cover, so his solicitor made payment in full 
from the estate.
Lloyds sent a letter to the solicitor saying it had made a mistake and it would issue a refund 
of the premium, and a second letter saying it wouldnt provide cover. The solicitor received 
both letters on the same day, which was the day after cover had ended. The following day, 
the solicitor told Mr M who then arranged buildings cover costing around £124 more than the 
premium the estate had paid Lloyds.
Mr M complained to Lloyds because the property was uninsured for two days. Lloyds 
acknowledged its mistake and offered a payment of £50 by way of apology. Mr M asked for 
£150 but Lloyds final offer was £100. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint because she thought that Lloyds had made a 
fair offer in the circumstances.
Mr M didnt agree. He thought Lloyds should cover the additional premium he paid to the 
new insurer because he didnt have time to look for more cost-effective insurance as a result 
of its mistake. Also, he didnt think it was appropriate for Lloyds to unilaterally cancel the 
contract.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M will be disappointed, but Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ill 
explain why.
Lloyds accepted it made a mistake, so Ive thought about whether its mistake caused Mr M 
any loss. He says the additional premium is a loss caused directly by Lloyds mistake, but I 
dont agree. Theres no evidence that Mr M wouldve been able to obtain cover at a lower 
premium for the property which had already been unoccupied for 12 months. I accept that he 
mightve done, but I cant hold Lloyds responsible for something which isnt evidenced. 
I appreciate that Mr M didnt have much opportunity to shop around because it seems 
Lloyds letter took five days to reach the solicitor, taking him beyond the policy end date. Mr 
M took out a policy with the insurer suggested by Lloyds. I think it was helpful that Lloyds 
suggested an insurer likely to offer a policy because its possible Mr M wouldve had difficulty 
getting cover for an unoccupied property. But Ive also thought about the time Mr M had 
before Lloyds mistakenly offered cover. Five weeks in advance of the policy end date, Lloyds 
told Mr M that it wouldnt provide cover. Two weeks before the policy end date, Lloyds 
issued the renewal documents. So, I think Mr M wouldve had the opportunity to start looking 
for alternative cover during the weeks before Lloyds issued renewal documents by mistake.
While Mr M thinks Lloyds caused him to incur an additional premium of £124, theres nothing 
to indicate that he wouldve got a lower premium elsewhere or that Lloyds error prevented 
him from shopping around. I cant reasonably say that Lloyds is responsible for the additional 
premium.
Mr M doesnt think it was fair that Lloyds cancelled the contract, leaving him without 
insurance. I can understand his point. But Ive approached this issue from a position of 
fairness - not in law  and I dont think there was a contract to cancel. Thats because the 
documents Lloyds sent contained conflicting information about the period of unoccupancy, 
some of which related to the previous year of cover. And given that it had already said it 
wouldnt provide cover for that year, I think it was a clear mistake with no intention to form a 
contract. Further, I can see that Mr M offered payment which Lloyds rejected and returned 
before the renewal date. For these reasons, I dont think its fair to say that Lloyds 
unilaterally cancelled a contract  I think its fairer to say it made the mistake of offering a 
contract, which it then corrected by withdrawing the offer.
Following on from this point, Ive thought about whether Mr M experienced any loss, caused 
by Lloyds, during the two days he was without insurance. I know there have been 
discussions about whether Lloyds wouldve considered a claim during those two days. I think 
it would, but that doesnt matter for the simple reason that its a hypothetical situation. 
Thankfully, Mr M didnt suffer what mightve been an insured loss during that time so there is 
nothing for Lloyds to put right.
The final point Ill address is Lloyds offer of compensation. As Ive already said, Lloyds isnt 
responsible for covering the increase in premium so Im not taking that into consideration 
here. The offer is to cover the distress and inconvenience its mistake caused. Lloyds made a 
final offer of £100 but Mr M wants £150. I can see Mr M thinks its a mean-spirited offer, 
especially when hes already said the payment will go directly to a specific charity. While I 
think Mr Ms plans are generous, I cant let that information affect my decision.
For me to uphold this part of Mr Ms complaint Id have to think that Lloyds offer was 
unreasonable. Its not significantly different to the amount Mr M asked for in recognition of 
the additional premium and by way of apology, which means he mustve thought it was fair. 
So, on that basis, I cant reasonably say Lloyds offer of £100 by way of apology for the 
distress and inconvenience alone was unfair. I wont be asking it to increase its offer.
In conclusion, while I can understand Mr M relied on the renewal documents Lloyds sent, I 
think Lloyds corrected its mistake quickly and made a fair offer of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Theres no evidence that Mr M experienced any loss as 
a result of Lloyds mistake, so I dont think theres anything it needs to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
M to accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman