DRN-1848580
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank Plc changed its mind about lending him enough money to 
complete a project.
What happened
Mr F has been working on a project on his land for a long time. He has put his entire working 
life into the project, and it is extremely important to him. 
Over the years, he has had many detailed discussions with Lloyds about his plans. He told 
us that Lloyds relationship manager promised him the bank would be with him all the way, 
and that it would see his project through to completion. He explained that he wouldnt have 
started the project in the first place unless he was confident he could obtain funding to 
complete it.
In 2018, Mr F asked Lloyds to lend him more money to enable him to complete the project. 
Lloyds refused, because it said Mr Fs income was too low.
Mr F eventually obtained some funding from another source. But he had to repay his existing 
Lloyds loan to do so  which meant he had to pay a break cost. He complained about 
Lloyds refusal to lend him more money. 
Our investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to show that Lloyds had promised to 
lend further money to Mr F. She thought Lloyds had only promised to consider further 
lending. She said Lloyds did think about lending more money to Mr F, but in the end decided 
not to do so.
Mr F did not accept our investigators opinion, and so his complaint was referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to further disappoint Mr F, but I agree with our investigator. I have come to the 
same conclusions she did, for the same reasons.
I know that Lloyds was happy to lend to Mr F during the early years of his project. But I dont 
think Lloyds ever promised that it would continue to support Mr Fs project right up until 
completion.
Its clear that Lloyds staff members gave Mr F reassurance about his project at various 
times. As just one example, Mr F explained that he bought a small piece of land next to his 
property because Lloyds told him that merging the titles would make a more attractive 
security for lending  and he now feels that he wasted that money. But I dont think any of 
the reassurance Lloyds gave amounted to a promise that it would lend in future.Mr F feels very strongly that banks should not be allowed to change their minds about the 
circumstances in which they will lend. I can see why he feels that way, but I dont agree. 
I know that Lloyds decision not to lend more money had a huge impact on Mr F. The 
decision meant that if he wanted to complete his project, he had to find an alternative source 
of funding  and here, that meant he had to pay a break cost. I think it would have been 
obvious to Lloyds that Mr F was going to want to complete a project hed been thinking about 
for nearly 40 years. So Lloyds knew how important the lending was to Mr F.
Despite the impact on Mr F, I think Lloyds was entitled to consider his 2018 request to 
borrow more money against its 2018 lending criteria. It was also entitled to take into account 
his circumstances in 2018, including the fact that his income had reduced. In the overall 
circumstances, I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong.
My final decision
I know this will be hard for Mr F to accept, but I am satisfied that Lloyds has treated him 
fairly. My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Laura Colman
Ombudsman