DRN-3290140
The complaint
Ms H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt prevent unauthorised transactions being 
debited from her account. And the bank also shared her card details with a third party. 
What happened
Ms H had a bank account with Barclays. 
Ms H explained that she made an enquiry with a company called S, however, didnt sign up 
to any form of subscription service. But, in January and February 2021 two payments of 
£128.25 were made to S. 
On 2 March 2021 Ms H cancelled her debit card in the hope this would stop payments to S. 
However on 16 April 2021 a further payment of £128.25 was made. 
Barclays explained that Ms H contacted the bank on 16 April 2016 via live chat to dispute 
this payment  and to ask for Barclays to block any further payments to S. But the bank was 
unable to do this because the payment was still pending. They advised Ms H to contact S 
and if the payment was still collected to recontact the bank to raise a dispute.  
A further payment of £128.25 came out of Ms Hs account in May 2021  on noticing this 
payment Ms H complained to Barclays and asked the bank to refund all of the payments 
made to S. She was also unhappy that Barclays had shared her new card details with V, the 
card scheme operator. 
Barclays raised four chargebacks regarding the payments. As, S didnt respond to three of 
the chargebacks and provided insufficient evidence for the other Barclays confirmed the 
refunds would remain in Ms Ss account. 
Barclays reviewed Ms Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. They explained that the bank had 
followed the correct process in not initially refunding the April payment  as it was still 
pending  and by agreeing to the account Ms H had signed up to the card operators rules. 
Part of Vs rules include that card details are shared with them  and can be shared with any 
merchant if a continuous payment authority is in place. 
Barclays explained that after Ms H complained in May 2021 they contacted V and asked for 
no further payments to be authorised to S. 
Ms H wasnt happy with Barclays response so complained to our service. Ms H explained 
that she didnt have any money for food because of the payments not being blocked.  
One of our investigators looked into Ms Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. They concluded 
Barclays raised the chargebacks when requested by Ms H, and Barclays didnt acted unfairly 
in sharing her card details with V. 
Ms H didnt accept our investigators view, and in response she explained that Barclays 
failed to act in April 2021, even though she asked the bank to prevent any further payments 
to S. 
As Ms H didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly considered Barclays actions in allowing Ms Hs funds to be paid to S  before 
recovering them. Ms H initially argued that she notified Barclays prior to April 2021 about the 
transactions to S. But, shes been unable to provide any evidence of this. Ive also reviewed 
the live chat evidence supplied by Barclays, and Im satisfied its most likely Ms H didnt 
contact the bank until 16 April 2021. 
Ms H has argued that Barclays should have done more when she contacted them at this 
time. Im satisfied that the advisors Ms H spoke with via live chat acted fairly when advising 
her about the recovery of the payment made on the 16 April 2021  this included informing 
her to contact S, and if the payment was still debited to recontact the bank to raise a dispute. 
However, I can also see that one of the advisors informed Ms H that theyd block any further 
payments to S. But this didnt happen until Ms H made further contact with Barclays in 
May 2021. Ive considered the impact of this, and I think Ms H was caused a small amount of 
inconvenience by Barclays failure to act, including having to contact Barclays again to 
dispute the payment. However, Ms H would have needed to contact the bank on a second 
occasion to dispute the January and February payments  which at this time she hadnt yet 
raised. 
If Barclays had blocked further payments as they suggested the May 2021 payment would 
likely have been prevented. But, I can see that Barclays took swift action when Ms H 
contacted them for a second occasion about the issue on 16 May 2021. The bank attempted 
to cancel the payment, before temporarily refunding it on 20 May 2021. I understand it was 
worrying for Ms H that a payment was made in May when she thought payments to S were 
blocked. And Ms H has explained she didnt have sufficient money for her bills and living 
expenses. But, having checked Ms Hs statements I cant see that any payments werent 
successfully processed or Ms H entered her overdraft between 16 May 2021 and 
20 May 2021 when the payment was refunded. 
Following Ms Hs contact on 16 May 2021, Barclays also raised chargebacks for all four 
payments, and temporarily refunded all of them before 2 June 2021. Im satisfied that the 
bank acted fairly here  and evidenced understanding of Ms Hs financial situation by 
temporarily crediting the funds. 
Ive moved on to consider Ms Hs frustration with Barclays sharing her card details with V. 
And I understand Ms H will be disappointed by this, but on deciding to open her account with 
Barclays she also agreed to the terms and conditions of the account. Which included 
allowing V access to her card details as the operator of the card scheme. For this reason I 
cant say that Barclays breached data protection legislation in sharing her new card details 
with V. 
In conclusion I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman