DRN-4311844
The complaint
Mr A complains about being charged interest on a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) transaction 
made through an account he has with Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as 
Very.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his goods through a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
When Mr A bought his fridge freezer he benefitted from BNPL terms that meant he wouldnt 
pay any interest as long as he repaid the credit by 2 August 2022. As payment wasnt 
received I dont think Very were unreasonable to charge interest to the account.
Mr A made a payment towards his flexible account balance on 17 May 2022 but as that 
wasnt directed to his separate BNPL account I cant say Very were unfair to charge interest 
on his BNPL transaction. The terms of the account explained that any payment that wasnt 
specifically allocated to the BNPL account would be allocated to the flexible account.
While I understand that Mr A believes he was extending the BNPL period by making a 
payment of £400, I dont think I have any additional evidence to support that.
Ive not seen sufficient evidence to support Mr As suggestion that he subsequently bought 
garden furniture using his BNPL account either. Mr A appears to have been able to access 
his online account and would have been able to review his statements. I think if he had 
allocated the transaction to the wrong account he would have been likely to notice that in the 
three, or so, months that passed between him making the purchase and complaining to Very 
about it. Im not persuaded by Mr As argument that as Very had made unrelated mistakes it 
would demonstrate they were likely to have misallocated his transaction to the wrong 
account. I dont, therefore, think Very were unreasonable to apply interest to the transaction 
when payment hadnt been received.
Very have an obligation to report activity on Mr As accounts accurately to the credit 
reference agencies. While they appear to have been prepared to withhold interest charges 
while Mr As complaint has been considered by this Service, they would still need to report 
the fact that payments towards the account had not been made. Im not, therefore 
persuaded theyve done anything wrong in that regard and, ultimately, I dont think it would 
be fair to ask them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman