DRN-2830901
The complaint
Mr M complains that his annuity income quoted by ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) was 
reduced and hed lost out.
What happened
Mr M said he was provided with an annuity quote of around £10,900 per annum which he 
accepted. Without notice this was reduced to around £10,300, even though he had accepted 
the higher quoted amount. He wanted ReAssure to honour the original quote. 
ReAssure said its quotes were usually based on an assumption that the spouse was three 
years younger. It accepted it did have the correct date of birth for Mr Ms spouse at the time 
of the quote but due to an error it assumed she was not more than three years younger and 
didnt use her actual age. If it had been calculated based on her age the actual quote would 
have been around £10,300. Mr M told them that had he known this at the time he would not 
have taken the annuity but instead waited for the value of the policy to increase. ReAssure 
said he could continue the annuity at the correct level. Cancel it and pay back what had 
been paid or retain the tax-free cash but take an alternative annuity that pays a high amount 
because for example it did not have a widows pension or had a reduced guarantee period. It 
apologised and paid £500 for the inconvenience caused.
The Investigator said this service couldnt ask ReAssure to honour mistakes and the 
illustration document clearly stated the figures were based on the value in early October 
2019 and the figure was not guaranteed and may go down as well as up. He expected the 
annuity schedule to be used as final confirmation of exactly what Mr M was supposed to 
receive. He understood he felt what he had been quoted was what he should receive. 
ReAssure had offered him various options but he chose not to explore them. In the light of 
this he thought that ReAssure had treated Mr M fairly and reasonably in attempting to 
resolve the complaint. He wasnt persuaded that had the correct figure been quoted Mr M 
would have rejected it especially as he had not looked at other providers to see if they would 
offer the same package.
While Mr M had suffered a loss of expectation, he had not suffered a financial loss as he 
was never entitled to the amount in the quote. ReAssure had admitted the error, apologised 
and paid compensation. Based on what had happened and the amount of compensation this 
was in line with what he would have recommended so he would not ask them to take further 
action and would not ask them to honour the original quote.
Mr M didnt agree. He said the annuity was guaranteed because he had signed to accept it. 
He did look at other options but if he left ReAssure, he had a guarantee with ReAssure so 
had to stay with them as they were the best option. He did get other quotes and put a lot of 
work into deciding to accept the one that he did. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered whether ReAssure is required to provide an annuity at the level of around 
£10,900 as Mr M suggests.
I note the original retirement options were issued in late August 2019. This quoted total 
policy values of around £151,900 and a pension with tax free cash at a level higher than the 
£10,900 per annum suggested in October 2019. The notes are clear that these are 
illustrations and the amount when Mr M decides to take his income may not be on the same 
basis as described. It warns that the actual income will depend on a number of things, such 
as the performance of his investment and how much an annuity costs to buy when he 
retires. It also says these rates could be different to the one it has assumed in the 
illustrations and vary with personal circumstances. I think that the age of Mr Ms spouse is an 
example of his personal circumstances.
By the time the retirement illustration is issued in mid-October it showed a total policy value 
of around £152,500 and annuity income of around £10,900 per annum (if tax free cash was 
taken). It asked for confirmation the details listed for the date of birth of Mr Ms spouse were 
correct. It warns that the figure for the policy value is not guaranteed and may go down as 
well as up. From what ReAssure have said it seems that at that point while it had the correct 
date of birth for his spouse it had not applied it to the calculation. It is also clear the amount 
the amount of the annuity and policy value could still fluctuate in line with the underlying 
investment and annuity rates. 
The option confirmation was issued on 18 October showing Mr M was interested in taking 
tax free cash and an annuity. The total policy value is shown as around £152,500 and an 
annuity of around £10,900 per annum. The notes say the benefits are subject to 
recalculation using unit prices and fund values and annuity rates applicable on either the 
date following receipt of all of the document or the selected retirement date whichever is 
later. So, I think it is clear that even when Mr M signed to accept the option set out it was not 
guaranteed that he would receive £10,900 as the final amount and there would be a further 
recalculation. 
The final schedule showing the annuity start date as 28 October 2019 shows the lower 
income of around £10,300. ReAssure has said that before the final schedule was issued it 
was checked and calculated to reflect the age of Mr Ms spouse.
In my view it was clear the figures could change and there would be further recalculation 
before the final policy and annuity was issued, for a number of reasons. So, it seems that 
ReAssure was able to make the changes and the amount of £10,900 wasnt fixed. I dont 
think there is evidence to show that ReAssure was required to pay Mr M an annuity income 
at the rate of £10,900 per annum.
Even if I am wrong in that conclusion and ReAssure made a mistake in quoting a level of 
annuity that did not take into account the difference in age between Mr M and his spouse, it 
wouldnt make a difference. I say that because where there is a mistake the law would seek 
to put Mr M back in the position, he wouldve been in but for the mistake.
In this situation that position would be that Mr M would have been quoted the correct lower 
annuity income. To give Mr M the benefit of the higher income would be to put him in the 
position as if the mistake was correct and that is not what the law requires.
So, I dont think ReAssure made a mistake in paying the lower amount of income but even if 
it did it would not have made a difference because Mr M wasnt entitled to the higher 
amount. Also, Mr M says that had he known he would have waited until the policy increased in value 
and a higher annuity was available. I dont know whether that was possible under the policy 
terms. I say that because it is clear the guaranteed rate, he accepted was only available if he 
bought an annuity at his retirement age not later. So, it seems that option may not have been 
open to him.
The retirement options letter dated 30 August 2019 is clear that if you choose to take your 
pension earlier your guarantee may be lost or may be revalued. If you do anything else. 
you will lose you guarantee
although your policy has a guarantee, other factors, such as the age when you take your 
benefits and the performance of your investment, will affect the amount you could actually 
receive
The figures shown are for illustration purposes only. When you take your retirement income 
it may not be on the same basis as weve described.
I also note that the options letter included an option of a higher income and no tax-free cash. 
Mr M opted for the lower income option. So, I think that had income alone been the most 
important factor I might have expected him to take the higher income offer but he didnt.
I note also that he says he got other quotes but due to the guarantee he had with his policy 
non were as good as what he was offered by ReAssure so in effect, he had no choice but to 
take the annuity offered. So, he would always have taken the option offered. 
Also, when he complained ReAssure gave him the option to cancel the policy, but he didnt 
elect to do this. So, based on the evidence and for the reasons given, I dont think he would 
have done anything differently. 
I note that ReAssure has paid Mr M £500 for distress and inconvenience caused by the loss 
of expectation. I have considered the impact on Mr M and what he did in the light of the 
choices given to him. Having done so I think this amount is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman