DRN-2311102
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) hasnt reimbursed her for 
transactions shes said were carried out fraudulently.
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs P said she noticed several hundred transactions on her bank account 
statements, linked to her PayPal account she says werent carried out by her. Shes said the 
transactions totalled over £15,000 and took place between Nov 2018 and Aug 2019.
Mrs P contacted PayPal and reported a number of the transactions unauthorised on three 
separate occasions. In response to her first two claims, made on 2 August and 6 August 
2019 PayPal reimbursed her for the 29 transactions shed highlighted.
Following this Mrs P reported 61 further individual transactions. Upon investigating this claim 
further PayPal didnt accept they were carried out fraudulently and didnt reimburse the 
funds.
Mrs P was unhappy with this and made a complaint. She said PayPal had originally said it 
would reimburse her for the transactions so it should stick to this. Shes said her computer 
mustve been somehow hacked and someone had accessed her PayPal account without her 
knowledge.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. They felt there was no 
plausible point of compromise and given the transactions were consistent with transactions 
on the account Mrs P has said were genuine it was more likely than not shed authorised 
them. Mrs P didnt accept this so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ps direct debit arrangement with PayPal
Mrs P has said shes never set up a direct debit instruction via PayPal, so any transaction 
made by direct debit, linked to her PayPal account wasnt her. But PayPal has shown me 
that in 2011 her bank account was linked to her PayPal account and the verification process 
she used at the time was to set up a direct debit. This verification process appears to have 
been followed correctly using Mrs Ps account information. 
I can see Mrs P has used her PayPal account regularly over the years to make various 
payments. So its clear she knew her bank account was linked to her PayPal account. And 
whilst I understand she might not have realised instructing payments via PayPal meant 
specifically instructing a direct debit payment rather than some other method, Im satisfied, 
on balance it was.
I think this part of her complaint is relevant because it seems there has been some confusion 
around how payments instructed via her PayPal account are showing on her bank account. 
And it seems this confusion mightve led Mrs P to believe transactions she authorised 
through her PayPal account werent her.
Throughout her complaint Mrs P has explained that the transactions shes disputing are 
showing on her bank account statements under a certain reference number. Ill refer to this 
as 42T. The payments have been made through PayPal but shes said this reference 
number isnt her PayPal account number so this means the transactions arent being carried 
out through her PayPal account and she didnt authorise them.
But the reference 42T showing on Mrs Ps bank account statements appears to simply be 
the reference her own bank is using to record transactions. This reference wouldnt 
necessarily be her PayPal account number, as its a reference her own bank has generated. 
So the fact the reference number on her account statements isnt the same as the PayPal 
reference, or her PayPal account number, doesnt evidence that the payments werent 
instructed via Mrs Ps PayPal account.
Mrs P has said the transactions showing on her PayPal account, which have a reference Ill 
refer to as VF2, arent linked to the 42T transactions on her bank account statements. But 
Ive considered the transactions on her PayPal account and what statements we have 
showing the transactions from Mrs Ps bank account. And it seems to me the transactions on 
both accounts do broadly match  theyre for the same amounts, across the same time 
period. And although the dates arent an exact match, Id expect this given payments taken 
via direct debit arent usually instant. So a delay of up to a few days would be expected.
So I think the transactions on Mrs Ps bank statements under reference 42T are the same 
transactions showing under reference VF2 on her PayPal account. And, Mrs P has said she 
did carry out all the transactions with the reference VF2. So I think it follows that she 
authorised the transactions on her bank statements with reference 42T.
Should PayPal refund the transactions Mrs P is disputing?
Although I think Mrs P has, in effect, confirmed she carried out the transactions herself, Ive 
still considered whether, based on the evidence provided, I think its likely there was any 
third party involvement in making the transactions in question. And having considered 
everything carefully Im not persuaded there is.
The regulations relevant to this complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). I wont quote them directly here but, broadly speaking they set out when a customer 
is responsible for the transactions on their account  typically when theyve been authorised 
by the consumer in some way. And where theres a dispute about whether a customer 
authorised a transaction there needs to be evidence to support the banks case if it wishes to 
hold the customer liable.
Mrs P is adamant she didnt carry out the transactions. But shes also said she did in fact 
authorise any transactions with the reference VF2, which, as far as I can see is every 
transaction shes disputed. 
Shes also said someone mustve hacked her computer and accessed her PayPal account to 
make the transactions. She hasnt provided much information around why she believes this 
to have happened, but based on what we currently understand about how remote access 
scams tend to be perpetrated I dont think what shes described is consistent with this type of 
scam. So Im not persuaded this is whats happened here. And, in the absence of any other information around how someone mightve accessed her 
account, I dont think Mrs P has given us any plausible explanation as to how someone has 
been using her PayPal account without her knowledge. So I think its more likely than not 
she did authorise the transactions.
Ive also noted that Mrs P seems to have been making transactions of similar amounts to the 
ones shes disputing for a number of years, although historically with less frequency. And 
whilst she hasnt made payments to the same companies as the transactions shes 
disputing, they do provide similar services to companies she does frequently use. 
Mrs P has said shes never used the specific companies the payments were to and has 
made attempts to contact them to find out more about the transactions. But when she initially 
contacted our service, she also said some payments to the same companies are genuine 
and some arent indicating she had. It seems she believed any payment made by direct debit 
wasnt authorised by her, but other payments by other methods were. For the reasons Ive 
explained I think payments made via PayPal wouldve been direct debit payments but Mrs P 
might not necessarily have realised this. 
Ive also noted Mrs P has, through her PayPal account, received credits from the company 
shes said shes never been involved with or made payments to. And its unclear why this 
wouldve happened if she had no relationship with it and had never used this service.
The amounts involved in this scam are substantial and have been made across a number of 
transactions over a nine month period. Mrs P says she checked her accounts regularly, so 
its unclear why she didnt notice such a large number of transactions for such large amounts 
of money if she didnt expect them to be there. 
I also think its unusual that, despite saying all transactions made by direct debit and carrying 
a certain reference number werent carried out by her, according to PayPals records shes 
reported these disputed transactions to PayPal in three separate stages and not included 
any of the transactions from March  July 2019 which carry the same reference numbers 
and appear to have been made in similar circumstances. 
Mrs P has said that shes at times been out of the country so the transactions cant have 
been authorised by her but Im not persuaded by this. It doesnt seem unfeasible someone 
would be able to access the internet when visiting family abroad. And Mrs P has said she 
was away for a two week period and the transactions shes disputing took place across a 
nine month period. So I dont think this trip offers evidence she didnt carry out the 
transactions.
Mrs P has said it wouldnt be possible to make as many transactions in a day as are showing 
on her statements. But Im not persuaded by this. As Ive mentioned, the transactions were 
instructed via direct debit. So several days worth of payments might be showing in one day 
that were actually authorised across a number of days. But in any event the transactions 
have been carried out by someone at the rate theyre showing on Mrs Ps statements. So I 
cant see on what basis she feels it wouldnt be possible to carry out the transactions at that 
rate.
One of Mrs Ps main points in this case seems to be that she feels PayPal initially said it 
would refund the transactions and later changed its mind and she feels this is unfair. Shes 
also said it practically admitted there was a third party involvement. I havent seen evidence 
of this. But either way, Ive reviewed the complaint afresh and independently. And based on 
what Ive seen, I dont think PayPal does need to refund Mrs P so it was entitled to change 
its mind. Overall, I think its more likely than not Mrs P carried out the transactions herself 
and therefore is liable for them.                                                                                                                                                                                                               As Ive mentioned, Mrs P has confirmed to our service that she had never intended to 
complain about any transactions with the reference VF2 because they were made by her. 
Some of these transactions have previously been refunded to her by PayPal. As shes 
confirmed these transactions were genuine, I think its fair that PayPal seeks to reclaim this 
money should it wish to. Given Mrs P has mentioned shes in financial difficulties Id expect 
PayPal to enter into positive and sympathetic discussions with her in order to reach a 
suitable repayment plan.
Should PayPal have done more to intervene?
Ive considered whether or not I think the transactions were significantly unusual enough that 
PayPal ought reasonably to have contacted Mrs P to discuss them further but overall I dont 
think so.
Although she had made payments more frequently, the individual transaction amounts and 
the type of retailers Mrs P was paying were broadly inline with her long term use of the 
account. And PayPal didnt have access to Mrs Ps bank accounts in a way that allowed it 
any oversight of Mrs Ps general financial position. 
So it wouldnt have known if she was in financial difficulties or how much of her overall 
balance she was spending. The only way it mightve been alerted to a problem wouldve 
been if any of the transactions were unsuccessful because she had insufficient funds in her 
account. But as far as I can see this never happened.
Overall I dont think Mrs Ps behaviour ought to have prompted further intervention or contact 
from PayPal. So I dont think its been unreasonable in acting on her payment instructions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman