DRN-3286715
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service hes received from Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) 
surrounding the arrears that had accrued on his account.
What happened
Mr D opened a credit account with BOS in 2013. In 2021, Mr Ds financial position was such 
that he was struggling to meet the contractual repayment required on the account. Mr D 
contacted BOS about this, and BOS agreed to place a 30-day hold on his account where Mr 
D wasnt required to make a payment and where interest wasnt charged. Following that 30-
day hold, BOS agreed to a second 30-day hold on the account under the same terms.
Following the end of the second 30-day hold, Mr D spoke with BOS and discussed his 
financial situation with them. This included that Mr D has been out of work for three years 
and wasnt confident of returning to work in the near future, and that he currently didnt have 
any disposable income with which he could make the monthly payments required on the 
account. Consequently, BOS advised Mr D that they felt that they had no option other than 
to close and default the account, which would have the effect of stopping the accrual of any 
further interest on the account so that the outstanding balance wouldnt increase further. 
BOS then began the process of defaulting the account and sent Mr D a series of letters to 
that effect, including a default notice. Mr D wasnt happy with how matters had progressed, 
including that his account had been defaulted, and felt that BOS should have given him more 
time to recover his financial position. So, he raised a complaint.
BOS looked at Mr Ds complaint. But they felt that it was fair and reasonable for them to 
have defaulted the account and they explained to Mr D that theyd been obliged to send him 
the sequence of letters that they had during the default process. 
Mr D wasnt satisfied with BOSs response, and he wasnt happy that BOS had subsequently 
sold his account to a debt purchasing company, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also felt that BOS hadnt acted 
unfairly towards Mr D by defaulting the account when they had or by selling the debt to a 
third-party company. So, they didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how, as a long standing and loyal customer of BOS, Mr D might have been 
disappointed that he didnt receive what he perceived as being a reasonable amount of 
financial support from BOS during the time that he was unable to meet the contractual 
payments required on his credit account.
However, BOS, like all credit providers, have certain obligations in regards to how they 
manage accounts where a customer is unable to make the minimum monthly payments 
required on that account. 
For instance, where a customer has informed a credit provider that theyre struggling 
financially such that they cant make the monthly payments, it would be expected that the 
credit provider would provide some form of short-term financial assistance. 
BOS did that here, and I say this because BOS did provide Mr D with two 30-day holds on 
his account to give him breathing space and to afford him the opportunity to recover his 
financial position.
Importantly though, it wouldnt be expected that a credit provider would provide such 
financial assistance indefinitely. One reason for this is because credit providers have an 
obligation to make accurate reports as to a customers ability to manage or repay their credit 
account to the credit reference agencies, and such accurate reports cant be made if a credit 
provider is artificially maintaining the status of an account via ongoing financial support. 
Furthermore, where a customer has explained to a credit provider that theyre not in a 
position to be able to make the monthly payments required on an account, and where that 
customer has also explained that there is little chance that their financial position will 
improve in the near future, then it wouldnt be expected that the credit provider would allow 
that customer to continue to fall further and further into arrears, and therefore further into 
debt, on that account indefinitely.
Instead, it would be expected that the credit provider would move to default that account, 
which has the effect of stopping further interest accruing on the account so that the balance 
outstanding doesnt continue to increase during a time when the customer has confirmed 
they cant afford to make payments.
Having reviewed the circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that this is what happened 
here. Mr D had told BOS that his financial position was such that he couldnt afford to make 
the monthly payments required on the account, and hed also told BOS that he didnt foresee 
being able to resume making these payments in the near future. 
As such, I feel that BOS were acting fairly towards Mr D by beginning the process of 
defaulting his account at that time. Indeed, given all that Ive explained above, Id likely have 
considered BOS to have acted irresponsibly had they not begun default proceedings on the 
account when they did.
Im aware that Mr D feels that as a loyal customer, BOS should have provided him with 
additional financial support above and beyond that which they did. But I hope that Ive been 
able to explain that BOS didnt have a free hand to provide such ongoing financial support in 
these circumstances, given the regulatory obligations that they have in regard to credit 
accounts, and also why I feel that BOS did act fairly and reasonably towards Mr D by 
following the default process that they did.
Im also aware that Mr D was unhappy with the wording of some of the letters that he 
received from BOS during the default process. But again, much of the content of those 
letters is mandated by the financial regulations that surround this process. As such, while I 
can appreciate how Mr D was unhappy with the letters, I feel that BOS were communicating 
with Mr D in the manner that they were obliged to, and as such I dont feel that I can fairly or 
reasonably censure BOS for this.
Finally, Mr D has stated that he is unhappy that BOS have sold his account to a third-party company. However, such sales of defaulted accounts arent unusual, and are permitted by 
the terms and conditions of the account. Additionally, its often the case that such third-part 
companies have greater scope for allowing the account holder to repay the balance over a 
longer period of time and therefore in smaller monthly amounts.
Ultimately, as I hope Ive been able to explain, given the financial position that Mr D 
explained to BOS that he was experiencing, I feel that BOS had little practical choice other 
than to take any course of action that they did take here. And it follows from this that Im 
satisfied that BOS didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr D by taking that course of 
action, and so I wont be upholding this complaint.
I realise that this might not be the outcome that Mr D was wanting, but I hope that hell 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman