DRN-3806973
The complaint
Mrs R complains Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (Casualty) unfairly 
declined her pet insurance claim when her dog was injured in a road traffic accident.
What happened
The complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill summarise the key points below:
Mrs R was walking her dog, T, in an enclosed area. T saw a cyclist on the other side 
of the fence and chased. Mrs R believes the lead may have failed and T ran off 
T ran along a fence but was able to scale a lower part of it and ended up on a main 
road where she was struck by a car
Mrs R made a claim to Casualty who declined it saying shed failed to take proper 
care and attention which had resulted in the accident
Our investigator considered the complaint and upheld it, saying that Casualty hadnt 
shown how Mrs R had failed to meet the conditions of the policy
She also said that whilst no evidence of the lead being recalled had been provided by 
Mrs R, she still felt Casualty hadnt evidenced Mrs R failing to meet the policy terms
Casualty disagreed, saying it hadnt received any information from Mrs R about the 
faulty lead. It said that Mrs R hasnt provided any information which shows T was 
kept under control and that Mrs R hadnt taken reasonable steps to ensure she didnt 
suffer any injury.
As Casualty disagreed with our investigators findings, the complaint has been 
passed to me, an Ombudsman, to make a decision on it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs R hasnt provided any evidence of the lead being recalled by the manufacturer. Given 
that the accident happened in January 2022, and Casualty only requested this information 
ten months later, its reasonable that Mrs R hasnt kept evidence of purchase or recall. I note 
that Mrs R had informed Casualty about the faulty lead in April 2022 however it didnt 
request any information on it at that time.
Without evidence of the recalled lead, Ive focused on the conditions that Casualty say Mrs R 
hasnt met when declining her claim. They refer to the following:
General Conditions
The following conditions apply to the whole of this Policy. Any other claims conditions and 
procedures are shown in the section to which they apply.
4. You must also provide proper care and attention to Your pet at all times and take all 
reasonable precautions to prevent accidents, injury or damage, as well as arranging and 
paying for Treatment for Your pet as recommended by Your Vet to reduce the likelihood of 
illness or Accidental Injury.
5. you must comply with all laws that relate specifically to Your pet  such as  Section 27 of 
the Road Traffic Act 1988, which states that a dog that is on a designated road must be on a 
collar and lead and under control.
6. You must ensure that Your dog is under control at all times, and due care should be 
maintained to prevent Your dog from escaping and causing Accidental injury to Your dog or 
any other persons or animals.
Term 5 refers to a dog which is on a designated road must be on a collar and lead and under 
control. The location of where Mrs R was walking T wasnt on a designated road and 
therefore, Im not persuaded that this term is applicable in the circumstances of the claim, 
and Casualty havent referred to any other relevant laws.
Term 4 required Mrs R to provide proper care and attention and to take all reasonable 
precautions to prevent accidents or injury. And term 6 says Mrs R must keep T under 
control and that due care should be maintained to prevent T from escaping. Theres no 
definition of these phrases in the policy however if Casualty are to rely on these conditions, it 
needs to demonstrate that Mrs R didnt show reasonable care on the day of the accident.
Wed expect Casualty to show that Mrs R had acted in a way that amounted to recklessness. 
In determining this, we use the test of recklessness set out in the leading legal case on 
reasonable care  Sofi v Prudential Assurance (1993) 2 Lloyds Rep.559.  Here, it was 
decided that in order for an insurer to show a policyholder was in breach of the policy 
condition that requires them to take reasonable care, the insurer needs to show the 
policyholder was reckless  in other words, that they recognised the risk, but took either no 
or inadequate measures to avert the risk.
Ive reviewed the area on Google Maps where Mrs R was walking T. I consider its 
reasonable that Mrs R wouldve thought that the vast green area was protected by high 
fences, enclosing the space, and protecting it from the traffic on the neighbouring road. As 
Mrs R was walking T on a lead, in what seemed to be a completely enclosed area, I consider 
that she took due care to keep T under control.
Im not persuaded that Casualty have shown that Mrs R was acting recklessly at the time of 
accident, or that shes failed to take reasonable care. Therefore, I consider that Casualty 
have unfairly declined the claim.
Putting things right
My final decision is that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd must pay the 
claim costs, whilst applying any applicable policy claim excess. If Mrs R has already paid the 
vet fees, interest* must be added at 8% a year simple from the date she paid the fees to the 
date of settlement.
*If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs R how much its taken off. It should give Mrs R a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from the HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman