DRN-1574190
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have declined a claim he made to them to 
refund a transaction.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the problems Mr K has experienced but whilst I sympathise with 
him I dont think Lloyds have been unreasonable rejecting his claim. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
chargeback
The chargeback scheme is intended to help resolve disputes between the consumer and the 
merchant without the need to resort to court action.
The scheme, in this case, is operated not by Lloyds but by Mastercard and the scheme 
operator sets strict rules under which claims can be made.
Cash transactions arent covered by those rules and as the transaction approved by Mr K 
was a cash transaction I cant say Lloyds were wrong to reject the chargeback request.
section 75
Lloyds also considered whether they could support a claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). That says that in certain circumstances, the 
consumer has a like right to claim against the creditor as he does against the merchant if 
theres a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
But for the creditor, Lloyds in this case, to have that liability it needs to have a relationship 
with the supplier of the goods and here it hasnt, as the payment was made via another 
company who Ill call K.
So, the requisite link required for a s75 claim, between the debtor, the creditor and the 
supplier has been broken and Mr K therefore has no claim under s75. 
other action
Ive also considered whether Lloyds could have done more to prevent the incident. 
Ive listened to the phone call Mr K had with Lloyds when they explained why theyd rejected 
the payment to K. They didnt explain that K was processing a cash transaction, but Mr K 
suggested he would contact the merchant for clarification and agreed he tried to make this 
payment. I think this led the agent to unblock the transaction.
Theres no record of the conversation Mr K had with the disputes team, but I think its 
unlikely they would have told him to provide his card details and I cant see that they did so 
in the subsequent email they sent him. 
So, on balance, Im not persuaded that it would be fair to hold Lloyds responsible for the 
second payment being taken and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman