DRN-4192426
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) incorrectly told her that no 
premiums had been paid on a life insurance policy taken out in November 1998. Mrs C 
provided evidence that a payment had been made in December 1998, before the policy was 
archived in 1999.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Mrs C would like a refund of the premiums paid as an apology for Avivas error. Ill 
focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
The sale took place in 1998, and the policy was archived in 1999. Im satisfied that in 
these circumstances its understandable that Aviva no longer hold specific 
documentation relating to the policy  its simply been so long since the policy has 
been active or relevant.
 
Mrs C has been able to provide evidence of payment toward the policy, and I have 
sample copies of the key features that wouldve been sent at the time this policy was 
sold. Ive taken all of this into account when considering my decision.
The sale was not an advised one, as Aviva simply didnt offer advice about these 
policies in 1998. And as the sale was non-advised, this meant Aviva (previously Sun 
Life) only needed to ensure it provided Mrs C with clear information about the policy 
for her to make an informed choice about whether she wanted to purchase it. 
From the policy schedule Mrs C has been able to provide, and the sample key 
features documentation available Im satisfied that clear information about the policy 
was provided.
The documentation also states, We cannot cancel your cover for any reason 
whatsoever, so long as you keep up your payments. So, Im satisfied that the policy 
more likely than not was archived in 1999 due to payments not being maintained. 
This is even more likely when considering that Mrs C has only been able to provide 
evidence of one payment.
I appreciate that there was initial confusion on Avivas part over whether any 
premiums had been paid on this policy, but as Ive explained I think this is 
understandable considering it no longer held detailed information on file about the 
policy as it was archived so long ago. 
Im also not satisfied that the impact of this confusion amounts to something that 
Aviva needs to do more about to put things right. I cant agree that it should refund 
the premium for the policy either  as its under no obligation to refund premiums for a 
policy that was fairly sold and then subsequently lapsed.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs C and the representative of the 
complaint. However, as I think Aviva acted fairly, I wont be asking it to do any more.
For these reasons, my decision is to not uphold s complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman