DRN-3603155
The complaint
Mr A has complained that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (PayPal) unfairly refused him a 
refund under their Buyer Protection scheme  even though he proved hed not received the 
goods hed bought.
What happened
At the start of 2022, Mr A bought a new mobile phone online. He used PayPals pay in 3 
service to pay £746 for it in three instalments.  The seller arranged for delivery by a courier 
service and required delivery to be signed for.
A few days later, Mr A received a message from the courier confirming they had the phone 
and telling him the date theyd deliver it.  Mr A knew he wasnt going to be at home that day.  
So he used the link provided in the couriers email to reschedule the delivery to a day when 
hed be available.  
The courier confirmed receipt of his request with a message showing delivery would now be 
on Mr As preferred date.  But they then delivered the phone on the original date  when    
Mr A wasnt home to receive it.
Initially, Mr A contacted the seller about non-delivery.  The seller contacted the courier, who 
told the seller the phone had been correctly delivered  and they didnt accept he hadnt 
received it.  The seller suggested Mr A report the matter to the police and open a dispute 
through PayPal.  
Mr A made a police report as suggested.  The police logged the incident but concluded there 
wasnt enough evidence to pursue the matter and closed their investigation.  And Mr A 
contacted the couriers, who investigated and told Mr A the phone had been dispatched on 
the original delivery date, left without any authorisation and their driver had failed to act 
appropriately.  They apologised and said all they could do was declare the package lost.
Mr A also contacted PayPal and raised a dispute under their Buyer Protection process, on 
the basis hed not received the item hed bought.  PayPal asked the seller to provide proof of 
delivery and the seller provided confirmation from the courier that the phone had been 
delivered on the date Mr A wasnt at home.  So PayPal found in the sellers favour.
Mr A challenged PayPals decision and sent them copies of the police report and the 
outcome of the couriers investigation.   PayPal didnt change their decision.  So Mr A 
brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator considered it and concluded PayPal hadnt acted fairly  so he said PayPal 
should refund Mr A what hed paid.  While he accepted PayPal had followed their process 
correctly, he noted that doesnt always lead to a fair outcome.  
And he thought this was the case here, because Mr A had provided compelling evidence 
that hed not received the phone  even though the seller had produced proof of delivery 
from the courier.  So he said PayPal should refund Mr A what hed paid.
I agreed with our investigator that, while PayPal had followed their process, that had led to 
an unfair outcome for Mr A because hed done everything he could to prove hed not 
received the phone.  But I made a provisional decision, because I thought that, in addition to 
refunding Mr A what hed paid, he should receive interest on the money for the period hed 
been without it.  
And I was satisfied that Mr A had been distressed by what had happened, and 
inconvenienced by having to gather all the evidence he had to demonstrate hed not 
received the phone.  So I provisionally decided he should also receive £100 compensation 
for this.
Mr A accepted my provisional decision.  PayPal didnt accept it and repeated theyd acted in 
line with their user agreement.  The matters now been returned to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr As complaint, in line with the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision  which Ive summarised above.
I understand PayPal say theyve acted in line with their user agreement.  I didnt disagree 
with that.  
The user agreement says a buyer wont get a refund under the Buyer Protection process if 
the seller produces proof of delivery  which they did.  But PayPal has seen the confirmation 
the courier provided to Mr A that their driver didnt act appropriately.  I think that means its 
unfair to rely on the delivery confirmation in those circumstances.  And thats why Im 
upholding the complaint.
Putting things right
As I explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that Mr A didnt get the phone.  And 
Im satisfied he paid for it in full.  So PayPal need to refund him £746.  
And Im satisfied its fair for PayPal to pay Mr A simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum, 
calculated from the date they declined his dispute or  if later  from the date on which he 
paid the instalments until the date of settlement.
Finally, because Im satisfied Mr A did suffer some distress and inconvenience by the way 
this matter was handled, Ive decided PayPal should also pay him £100 compensation to 
recognise this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr As complaint about PayPal (Europe) Sarl 
et Cie SCA and directing PayPal to:
Refund Mr A £746 for the phone he didnt receive;
Pay him simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum, calculated from the date they 
declined his dispute or  if later  from the date on which he paid the instalments until 
the date of settlement.If PayPal considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr A a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and 
Pay Mr A £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience theyve caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman