The complaint
Mr H says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about four short-term loans MYJAR provided to Mr H between June 2015 
and February 2019. A summary of Mr Hs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 07/06/2015 24/06/2015 3 £250.00 £130.26
break in lending
2 10/02/2016 23/02/2016 3 £300.00 £164.58
3 06/04/2016 24/06/2016 3 £800.00 £401.84
break in lending
4 17/02/2019 24/05/2019 3 £600.00 £312.88
Mr Hs complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think it should be 
upheld. They thought there wasnt anything in the information MYJAR had asked   Mr H to 
provide that should have prompted MYJAR to do more checks. So, the adjudicator couldnt 
say MYJAR was wrong to have given these loans to Mr H.  
Mr H disagreed. He says these loans shouldnt have been agreed because he had other 
outstanding short-term loans. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
DRN-1447054But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators view because he thought MYJARs checks didnt go 
far enough and it should have been aware he was borrowing from other short-term lenders. 
So, it shouldnt have lent to him.
MYJAR has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving all the loans. It 
has said it asked Mr H about his employment status and he confirmed he was employed and 
had a monthly income of between £1,600 and £1,900 for each loan.
MYJAR also checked Mr Hs normal monthly living costs. Mr H declared these to be 
between £497 and £854 a month. MYJAR says it also searched Mr Hs credit file and it has 
provided the results of its search. There werent any recent adverse entries like county court 
judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loan was taken out. So, there wasnt 
anything in the credit report which would have prompted MYJAR to carry out further checks. 
Mr H says he was borrowing from other short-term lenders around the time he took out his 
loans with MYJAR. But as these loans were taken at a similar time, it is unlikely these loans 
would have appeared on the credit checks that MYJAR carried out. So, I dont think MYJAR 
ought to have increased its checks before it lent to Mr H again or not lent to him on this 
basis.   
Mr H borrowed and repaid loan 1 without any obvious difficulty, there was then an eight-
month gap between Mr H repaying his first loan and taking out loan 2. I think it would be 
reasonable for MYJAR to view this gap as an indication that Mr Hs finances had stabilised 
after whatever had led to him to need to borrow previously. So, he was very early on in his 
lending relationship with MYJAR. And even though he had to make monthly repayments, the 
highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information he declared to 
MYJAR. And there wasnt anything in the information Mr H provided at the time of loan 2 
which would have given MYJAR cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of MYJAR to 
have relied on what Mr H gave it. 
There was a further gap of over three years between Mr H repaying loan 3 and taking out 
loan 4. So again, I think it would be reasonable for MYJAR to view this gap as an indication 
that Mr Hs finances had stabilised after whatever the circumstances were that had caused 
him to take out the previous loans. And as such Mr H was back at the beginning of his 
lending relationship with regards to what checks I would expect MYJAR to perform. I think all these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate 
for MYJAR to carry out. Given these, I think the checks MYJAR did before lending the final 
loan went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-
depth checks. 
The information Mr H declared to MYJAR at the time of the loans may not have been an 
accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think MYJAR was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what MYJAR knew about Mr H, 
I wouldnt have expected MYJAR to verify the information Mr H gave it. This therefore 
means, I cant say that MYJAR has done something wrong in lending Mr H these loans.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr H, but I hope my explanation will help 
him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman