DRN-1847486
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr F payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy, starting in 1994, which covered a 
mortgage. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint should not be upheld. Mr F didn't agree and so the case 
was passed to me. When I looked at the case, I agreed with the overall conclusion of the 
adjudicator. But Mr F had made a number of points that I wanted to address, so that he had 
a further chance to comment. So I wrote a provisional decision saying the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
My current view is that I should not uphold this complaint. This is because I dont have 
strong enough evidence that the PPI was mis-sold. I will explain why. 
The sale of the PPI took place about 26 years ago and, not surprisingly, none of the 
key documents from the time are now available  only basic records exist of some 
dates and amounts paid. Also I couldnt be sure how much detail someone would 
accurately recall about everything that happened so many years ago when the PPI 
started.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence. Ive also had to consider what 
level of evidence its fair to expect from the different parties. 
In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest outcome can be difficult.
Mr F has said it would be wrong to accept Bank of Scotlands account of what 
happened, as it hasnt presented proof that it didnt mis-sell the PPI.
However, I dont agree that that is a fair approach. Where someone has said another 
person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the person 
making the allegation should present reasonable evidence that this probably did 
happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do something 
wrong, especially when it was so long ago. I do though realise this causes Mr F a real 
difficulty so many years later. Mr F says he was led to believe he had to take out the PPI to improve his chances of 
getting his loan. He feels he was effectively coerced by a bank employee who may 
have been motivated by getting a commission. He says he didnt need PPI because of 
his work-related benefits, savings and ability to take on extra work. 
The problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact 
words used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily 
wrong to strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the 
adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually 
something worth having. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real 
sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant 
be sure exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say Bank of Scotland did 
something wrong unless I had stronger evidence of this. 
Ive also looked at whether there were other possible reasons why the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. But I dont currently think these apply to this case. I will explain why.
Bank of Scotland has worked on the assumption that it recommended the PPI to Mr F. 
I think this is a fair approach, as it means it had a higher standard to reach during the 
sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr Fs particular 
circumstances. But I dont have strong enough evidence that the PPI was unsuitable 
for Mr F.  It looks as though he would have been eligible for the PPI; and it doesnt 
look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I 
say this because:
PPI for some types of borrowing was often of doubtful value; but being unable 
to pay a mortgage on your home can lead to significant difficulties, and 
PPI was often a good idea for mortgages. Bank of Scotlands PPI would 
have paid benefits at the same time as Mr F received any employer sick 
pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the 
time when he would need to fall back on any savings. This all would 
have put Mr F in a more secure position, if he eventually lost income due 
to long term sickness or unemployment.
Mr F has said that his particular profession operated a pool system which, if 
it couldnt provide work, paid a significant percentage of his normal pay. 
He hasnt been able to provide details of this scheme, including the exact 
circumstances when it would be paid or what the limitations were. And I 
cant be sure he has remembered all the details  for example, although 
I dont know, at first sight it seems unlikely he would have been entitled 
to state unemployment benefits in addition to employer benefits. So, 
overall, it wouldnt be fair for me to take this into account when assessing 
whether the PPI was worthwhile.
Mr F has said he was always able to quickly pick up agency work when he 
wasnt working. I can see this would have made him less nervous about 
being made redundant. But this wouldnt have helped him if he was too 
sick to work. So the PPI could still have help protect his mortgage 
payments in such a situation.
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the 
policy. Where a PPI seller might not have given enough information, I need to think if 
its likely better information would have changed whether the customer took PPI. But, 
in Mr Fs circumstances, I dont think full and clear information about the costs would have affected whether Mr F took the PPI. I say this because, as Ive explained, the PPI 
could have been potentially useful to Mr F. And I dont think full details of the actual 
costs would have changed how much it appeared useful; and I cant see that the 
restrictions in the policy (such as exclusions) would have affected Mr F significantly.
Bank of Scotland didn't make any comments on this. Mr F's representatives said they had 
nothing further to add. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons set out in my p[rivsional decision, I'm not upholding this complaint. 
 
My final decision
I'm not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman