DRN-4226740
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Highway Insurance Company Limited delayed in inspecting his 
motorhome following an accident and has since offered a cash in lieu settlement which he 
thinks is too low and unfair. 
What happened
Mr S reversed into something causing damage to the rear of his motorhome. His motorhome 
was brought to a repairer. According to Highways file the repairer did prepare a report and 
told Mr S his motorhome was likely to be a total loss. And that Mr S didnt want this. For 
some reason the report wasnt sent to Highway presumably by a mistake. 
Mr S chased Highway several months later claiming it had delayed. At that stage Highway 
sent out its own assessor to view the motor home. It had got into a bad state of repair. Mr S 
initially told the investigator that he had attempted to seal it up better too with the use of 
temporary seals. 
Highway ultimately decided to offer Mr S a cash in lieu settlement. This was because the 
motorhome had deteriorated meaning certain areas now needed repair in order to repair the 
accident-related damage. And in that case if Highway undertook the repair, it would be 
putting Mr S back in a more favourable position. Mr Ss motorhome is old and consequently 
there is no available valuation of it in the usual valuation trade guides. Highways engineer 
estimated the value to be £2,500. Highway also clearly noted it was wrong of its engineer to 
expect Mr S to buy the parts required on an online auction site as thats unreasonable. So 
instead, Highway used a category B (parts only) salvage value of 6% to work out the cash in 
lieu amount. It said if it used the category N (non-structural) salvage value of 19% it was 
likely given the condition of the motorhome, it would be a total loss. So, in effect Highway 
offered what is essentially the total loss value to Mr S of £2,500 (as estimated by its 
engineer) less the excess of £100. And it would dispose of the motorhome for him. If Mr S 
wanted to keep the motorhome, it would deduct a further £150 for the salvage value.
 
Mr S didnt think this valuation was high enough and he thought it should be £7,500. So, he 
brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think Highway had done anything wrong. 
However, as Mr S remained dissatisfied his complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
First, turning to the delay aspect Highways file is clear that the repairer did prepare a report 
and that this repairer told Highway that Mr S didnt want his motorhome to be a total loss. 
And for some inexplicable reason that report was never sent to Highway at the time. I 
appreciate Mr S said he chased matters, but the note said that Mr S would get back to the 
repairer too. Also, in Mr S initial call with the investigator he said he put some temporary 
seals on the motorhome too, which was obviously some attempt to protect it from the 
weather. Sadly, that didnt appear to make much difference as there is no dispute the motor 
home has deteriorated significantly.
Therefore, I dont consider the delay was solely down to Highway, as given the above I do 
consider some of the delay was down to Mr S too. 
Given the age of the motorhome, its been impossible to get a valuation from the trade 
guides for it. Highways engineer valued it at £2,500 on a pre-accident basis given he was of 
the view the interior needed replacement to make it habitable and it noted Mr S didnt have a 
habitation certificate. He said he based this figure on the above and from the internet. 
In the absence of being able to value the motorhome from the trade guides and in the 
absence of any other evidence of similar aged motorhomes selling prices, I dont 
consequently consider this valuation to be unreasonable.
 
Clearly also it was inappropriate that Highways engineer thought Mr S could get parts for 
the motorhome from an online auction site, which Highway acknowledged in its final 
response letter. On that basis I consider how Highway came to the cash in lieu figure in the 
final response letter to be fair. Its figures are to Mr S advantage bearing in mind, its 
effectively giving Mr S the total loss value instead of the initial cash in lieu offer made which 
was considerably lower. This is because in order to repair the accident-related damage, 
which is the sole extent of Highways duty here, it would be necessary to undertake other 
repairs, given the poor state of the interior of the motorhome. Therefore, on this basis I dont 
consider how Highway wanted to settle this claim to be unreasonable or unfair.   
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman