DRN-3398887
The complaint
Miss H complains Everyday Lending Limited irresponsibly lent to her when she couldnt 
afford the loan(s).
What happened
In February 2015, Miss H took out a loan with Everyday for £5,195.99 payable over 36 
months with a monthly repayment of £276.43. Miss H said the loan was to consolidate her 
debts. In September 2016, Miss H took out a second loan with Everyday for £8,000 over a 
period of 36 months repayable at £439.96. Miss H said this was again for consolidation of 
her debts which included the first Everyday loan.
In April 2018, Miss H took out a third loan with Everyday this time for £9,000 over a period of 
42 months, repayable at £383.98 per month. She said the loan was to purchase a car. 
Miss H complained to Everyday as she said they hadnt done enough to check whether she 
could afford each of the loans. 
Everyday said theyd carried out proportionate and reasonable checks to determine Miss Hs 
financial position at the time of each loan. They said their affordability assessment showed 
Miss H had sufficient disposable income for each loan application. And that they deemed the 
loans to be affordable. 
Miss H wasnt happy with Everydays response and referred her complaint to us.
Everyday offered to settle the complaint as they accepted the first loan was unaffordable for 
Miss H. Miss H didnt accept the offer. And our investigator didnt consider that it was fair 
and reasonable. She said Everyday shouldnt have lent to Miss H for all three loans. 
Everyday didnt completely agree, they accepted Loan One and Loan Two shouldnt have 
been lent. But didnt agree that the third loan wasnt affordable for Miss H. They asked for an 
ombudsman to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its been accepted that Loan One and Loan Two shouldnt have been lent to Miss H. So as 
these loans arent in dispute my decision will consider whether Everyday acted fairly and 
reasonably in lending Loan Three to Miss H. Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. There are two overarching
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the
circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Miss H would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Everyday make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss H
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Regulations in place at the time Everyday lent to Miss H required them to carry out a
reasonable assessment of whether she could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning Everyday need to think
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse
consequences for Miss H. In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to think only about
the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of
repayment on Miss H herself.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders
to consider the specific circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. 
But there are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for 
a given loan application. For example:
the consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
So, Ive considered whether Everyday in lending to Miss H had been thorough in the checks
they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding to lend to
her.
Miss Hs application for Loan Three was made in April 2018, this showed her as being single 
with no dependents, living with her parents and not paying any rent. I can see from the two 
bank statements Everyday considered prior to agreeing to lend the third loan to Miss H, that 
her income was £2,269.66 and £2,730.96 respectively for February and March 2018.  
Everyday in their affordability assessment used the lower salary income of £2,269.66. From 
Miss Hs credit file, theyd calculated shed commitments totalling £1133.72. This included a 
credit card, mail order account, regular payments of £1,000 to her father for a holiday, and 
£20 to her mother for a dental plan. For day to day living costs Everyday said they used the 
Office for National Statistics (ONS) calculation of 35% of Miss Hs net income, calculating 
this to be £570. After taking the new loan repayment into account - £383.98, Everydays 
assessment showed Miss H should have had a disposable income of £181.95. So Everyday 
considered the loan affordable.But I dont think the above assessment is accurate if Everyday applied their calculations as 
theyve said. If I use the same salary £2269.66, I calculate 35% (ONS) of this to be £794.38. 
I also make Miss Hs commitments to be £1177.72, not £1133.72. And after the repayment 
for the loan, £383.38, I dont think Miss H would have been left with any disposable income. 
In fact, shed have been short around £86 each month. 
Everyday has said the difference in their commitments figure is the £44 that Miss H was 
committed to pay to her communications supplier. As this would have considered part of 
Miss Hs day to day living costs it would be included in the ONS calculation. But if I accept 
this reasoning, Miss H still wouldnt have had any disposable income. I think shed have 
been short around £42 per month.
I can see that Miss Hs salary varied across the two months. And I think there could be seen 
other factors on her bank statements  that I think showed Miss H wasnt managing her 
finances well. I can see from Miss Hs bank statements that in February 2018 shed made 
some gambling transactions - £20, and by March 2018 these had increased to £140 for the 
month.  I can also see that Miss H was using her overdraft facility and incurring daily 
overdraft fees each month. There were also several bill payments to individuals showing on 
both statements. In February 2018,  this type of payment amounted to over £250, and in 
March 2018, over £500. 
I can see notes made against some of the transactions that show these were considered by 
Everyday. A payment from February 2018s statement for £240 has notes that say this was 
to repay money after Miss H lost her debit card. A payment to the same individual on the 
March 2018 statement has notes that say its Miss H lending money to a friend for a 
purchase. But the reference for the payment says Thank You. 
So, I dont think Everyday asked for, or considered, further information to properly scrutinise 
and address the warning signs Ive highlighted. I think Everyday should have looked into 
Miss Hs application and financial situation further.
Everyday did have sight of two months bank statements. Given the variance in Miss Hs 
salary a third bank statement might have shown a more accurate reflection of Miss Hs 
monthly  income. Miss H has given further bank statements to us. I can see that for the 
January 2018 bank statement her salary was £1800.12. This shows over the three-month 
period prior to the loan, Miss Hs  monthly salary varied by nearly £1,000.
 Ive calculated her average salary over the three months  to be £2.266.91. So, the salary 
used by Everyday was reasonable as it was close to Miss Hs average salary over the three 
months. The January 2018 bank statement shows a couple of gambling transactions, Miss H 
using her overdraft. But there arent any of the additional bill payment transactions as seen 
in the other two bank statements. But based on the affordability assessment with the ONS 
percentage Everyday use to calculate whether a loan is affordable, I dont think  Miss H had 
any disposable income to reasonably sustain the repayments of the loan.
So, I think Everyday based their lending decision on an affordability assessment that I think 
was flawed in its calculations. And I think there were some warning signs that Everyday 
should have looked into about Miss Hs application and financial situation further. So, I think 
Everyday acted irresponsibly in lending Loan Three to her. 
Putting things right
Putting things right when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending isnt
straightforward as Miss H has had the loan(s) in question and shes used the funds. in thesecircumstances, I cant undo whats already been done. Everyday has already agreed that 
Loan One and Loan Two shouldnt have been lent. And I dont think they acted responsibly 
in agreeing to lend Miss H Loan Three either. So, I uphold this complaint and ask Everyday 
Lending Limited to:
remove any interest and charges applied to Miss Hs account for Loan One, Loan 
Two and Loan Three from when they were opened;
treat any payments that Miss H has made as a reduction of the principle amounts, if 
this results in Miss H having paid more than what she was initially lent, then any extra 
should be treated as an overpayment and refunded to Miss H plus 8% simple 
interest on this amount from date of payment to date of settlement;
if an outstanding balance remains on Miss Hs account after all adjustments have 
been made, then Everyday Lending Limited needs to come to a suitable repayment 
plan with Miss H to pay off the remaining amount; and
remove any adverse information on Miss Hs credit file in relation to all three loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Everyday Lending Limited trading must give Miss H a certificate showing how much 
tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Everyday Lending Limited to take the actions as outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman