DRN-3843672
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) handled a 
claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H had a motor insurance policy with Advantage covering his car.
In early 2022, Mr Hs car was stolen. It was recovered a short time later and was damaged 
during the theft.
When the car was recovered, Advantage assessed it as needing about £7,288 of repairs. 
Advantage declared the car was beyond economic repair. It said it would declare the car a 
write-off and assessed its market value as £9,124.
Mr H didnt agree with this valuation. He said he couldnt find a similar car for less than 
£9,800. He discussed having the repairs done himself. He also told Advantage he didnt 
want the car sold, scrapped or written-off.
There was a delay in Advantage organising an engineers report and then sending a copy to 
Mr H. Advantage paid Mr H £50 for this delay.
Advantage disposed of the car at the end of February 2022 without agreeing the valuation or 
its disposal with Mr H. Advantage said it had made an error and said it would pay Mr H an 
additional £150 for its error in disposing of the car.
Mr H remained unhappy with Advantages decision and brought his complaint to this service. 
He asks that his car should be valued at around £10,000 and that Advantage pay him about 
£750 for the stress itd caused by disposing of the car when hed asked for it to be kept. He 
also raised some concerns about the validity of the engineers report which had been 
amended between being written and sent to him. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. She said that Advantage 
had made mistakes during its process. But shed looked at various trade guides and the 
amount offered by Advantage was in line with the approach taken by this service. She also 
thought the total compensation of £200 was fair and reasonable.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why as I appreciate this will be a 
disappointment for Mr H.
I understand that Mr H raised concerns about the engineers report produced by Advantage. 
I can see from the file that our investigator has addressed these concerns with Mr H. 
Mr H has said that amendments made to the engineers report caused a breakdown of trust 
with Advantage. He says that it took 34 days for Advantage to reply to his concerns and he 
would have expected it to have used a more professional tool to carry out the changes.
Ive reviewed the reasons Advantage gave for the amendments, and they seem logical and 
reasonable. I agree with Mr H that a faster answer would, perhaps, have meant that his 
concerns would have been resolved and re-built the trust between the parties. But I can also 
see that Advantage recognised its error and paid Mr H £50 compensation for it. I think its 
offer is fair and reasonable, and Im not going to ask it to pay more.
Vehicle valuation
Ive said above that Advantage offered Mr H the vehicle valuation of £9,124. I can see from 
its evidence that it arrived at this figure by taking the mean of two values from trade guides it 
uses.
This fits with this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for 
vehicles, but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
Ive done research into Mr Hs car and Ive found these values, provided by four different 
trade guides, for the month Mr Ds car was stolen, which are based on a vehicle with the 
same specification:
Company A: £9,422
Company B: £9,095
Company C: £9,246
Company D: £9,190
Advantages offer is within the range of valuations from the trade guides, so it follows that I 
think its offer is fair and reasonable, and Im not going to ask it to pay more.
Vehicle disposal
I can see from Mr Hs comments that he was very disappointed by the car being disposed of 
by Advantage when hed told it not to. Ive thought about the situation Mr H was in at the 
time, and Ive carefully considered the reports from Advantage about the cars condition.
It seems to me that the amount of repairs needed, initially established at around £7,288, 
when compared to the market value of the car, show me that the car has suffered very 
significant damage. And its fair to say that more damage is often found once repairs start. In 
addition, the car was damaged to an extent that it was undriveable, meaning that some 
additional costs would have been incurred by Mr H to assess the damage before he could 
begin to repair it.
Advantage has said it would have offered to Mr H the salvage for him to buy at a price of 
£2,879.38. Simply put, the cost of buying the car, and the likely cost of repairs to rectify it, 
plus transportation and inspection, would most likely have taken the total cost to repair it 
substantially higher than the market value Ive talked about above.Taking all this into account, I think Advantage made a substantial error in disposing of the 
car in the way that it did, when Mr H had asked for it not to be sold. I can see from Mr Hs 
evidence that it caused him significant stress at a difficult time, but as I have said above, I 
think its fair to say that, on balance, Mr Hs decision would reasonably have been the same 
as the situation Advantage put him in. 
I can appreciate Mr Hs disappointment with how his claim has been handled, but I think 
Advantages offer of £150 compensation for its mistake in disposing of the car is fair, and Im 
not going to ask it to pay more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman