DRN-2546206
The complaint
Miss S complains that 3J Finance Limited will not let her out of an arrangement to pay for an 
educational course for her children.
  
What happened
In February 2019 Miss S says she was sold a cancel at any time arrangement for an online 
education course for her children. 3J Finance says she took out a Fixed Sum Loan 
Agreement over five years with it to pay for this online educational course supplied by the 
course provider.
In January 2020 Miss S children had respectively progressed at school and changed school, 
and both felt they no longer wished to have this online educational course. So she rang the 
course provider to cancel. During that call she was told to call 3J Finance about her wish to 
cancel this loan agreement.
Miss S says she didnt understand shed been signed up to a loan agreement. She says she 
didnt know about 3J Finance until this call and that she says the agreement was not signed 
by me. Miss S wants out of the agreement with nothing else to pay but 3J Finance say shes 
responsible for the total amount of credit (which was just under three thousand seven 
hundred pounds at the time the agreement was created in 2019).
Miss S complained but 3J Finance say its done nothing wrong. So Miss S brought her 
complaint here.
Our Investigator upheld Miss Ss complaint, but 3J Finance didnt agree and pointed to the 
paperwork from the sale. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S says that having learned about the educational course she expressed an interest in 
learning more about this, and a representative visited her home in February 2019. By the 
end of this meeting Miss S had purchased an educational course for her children. It appears 
the representative was acting for both the course provider and 3J Finance during the sales 
process. The total price of the course was £3750 of which £3690 was paid for with a loan 
from 3J Finance which was arranged by the representative. 
Miss S has been very clear and consistent in her representations that during the meeting 
with the representative she understood the situation was that this was a service which could 
be cancelled anytime. She also makes clear from the start that she understood she was 
setting up a monthly direct debit arrangement and not anything else. She says about the 
sales process With regard to the representative showing us the forms on the tablet. He 
didn't show us nor did he go through these at any time, and just said these were just a 
formality and he would send them to us on email. We were not even asked if we wanted to 
read them before he signed them. (We didn't sign them).
Repeatedly Miss S has said that she didnt understand that she was entering a loan 
agreement and that she didnt sign anything. Miss S does agree she entered an 
arrangement but believed it was monthly direct debit type arrangement.
It is not exactly clear the situation of the representative who sold this course other than it 
seems they were representing the course provider and possibly 3J Finance also. It may be 
that 3J Finance didnt sell Miss S the course or the loan directly but that doesnt mean that it 
hasnt responsibilities to Miss S. This is due to certain protections afforded to consumers by 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The loan Miss S entered with 3J Finance is regulated by this 
Act, and there are two sections of the Act which provide her with some protection namely 
section 56 and section 75. 
In summary section 56 has the effect of making the representative who sold the loan here, 
the agent of 3J Finance during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Miss S entering 
into the loan agreement, beginning with the first contact she had with the course provider. In 
essence this means 3J Finance can be held responsible for the things that were done or 
said during the sales process. Section 75 has the effect of allowing Miss S to hold 3J 
Finance liable for breaches of contract by the course provider, or misrepresentations made 
during the sales process by the representative in this case. As Miss S makes clear she 
believes to be the case in her representations.
3J Finance has pointed to a number of documents which were electronically signed by Miss 
S on the day in question. 3J Finances position essentially is that the documentary evidence 
from the point of sale is very strong and is, in short, the end of the matter as Miss S agreed 
to everything in those documents. But I dont agree that position is a complete or fair 
appreciation of what happened here. What was said by the representative is also important 
as the discussion will have started before the paperwork was signed. And Miss S would 
have considered what the representative said in her decision making during the sale and 
during the completion of any documents. And it is of note what Miss S said about how the 
electronic documents were dealt with.
Miss S has been consistent in what she says about believing she could cancel any time. She 
says she believed this because this is what the representative told her. And events do 
support this as it is clear that she rang the course provider in order cancel the monthly 
payment.
As for the broader context of this sale Im also aware that the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) wrote to credit brokers outlining some key risks for them to consider and act upon. 
The FCA said it had found firms brokering credit agreements with third party finance 
providers had poor oversight of staff, leaving sales practices unchecked and potentially 
increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor consumer outcomes. It highlighted in 
particular brokers which sell products in consumers homes as presenting a higher risk of 
consumer harm, especially where sales took place without appropriate oversight and on a 
commission-basis. The FCA did not name individual firms, but Im mindful of the fact that the 
sale here does, at least, fit some of the criteria the FCA identified as presenting a high risk of 
mis-selling.
Importantly I also need to consider that this service has seen a number of cases about the 
course provider involved here and it using credit providers such as 3J Finance. These 
include the common theme of people understanding that they could cancel at any time or 
outside the stated terms. I havent seen anything that connects these complainants other 
than they were sold courses such as this by this particular course provider and often took finance to pay for it. That doesnt mean that the representatives always provided misleading 
or untrue information. But it does show that there was a significant risk that such 
representatives either were unclear on the arrangement being entered into or that 
unscrupulous or incompetent representatives may have presented the situation differently to 
that articulated in the documentation.
This service has also received information that the course provider sometimes operated 
informally a longer cancellation period than the fourteen days set out in its contracts. I can 
see the existence of official and unofficial cancellation periods of different lengths being a 
potential source of confusion during the sales process, and this again leads me towards a 
conclusion that misunderstandings were not uncommon.
Ive considered what Miss S has said very carefully. And taking everything into account Im 
persuaded on balance that Miss S was told a different story by the representative regarding 
the operation of the agreement to that set out in the documentation provided by 3J Finance. I 
think it likely she was told that she could cancel at any time. And it was on this basis she 
entered into the agreement. And similarly I think it is on this basis things should be put right. 
And as Ive described due to the operation of sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974, Miss S can hold 3J Finance liable for the incorrect information provided by the 
representative in this case. So 3J Finance needs to do something to put things right.
In response to the views of the Investigator 3J Finance has said that reliance on one partys 
recollections when compared to its tangible and credible documentary evidence would isnt 
fair. I disagree. Firstly Miss S doesnt dispute she agreed to take the course but that she 
didnt understand that shed entered into a loan agreement to pay for it. Importantly the key 
issue here is what was said to Miss S before and whilst she entered the agreement and what 
she relied on in deciding to sign. Secondly and more importantly 3J Finance has only 
described what it considers what would have been said and done by its representative not 
what was actually said. In essence it is relying on the representative describing the matters 
accurately as per its guidance/training. It hasnt provided commentary from the 
representative in this case in support of its position. However Miss S was there in person 
and heard what was said and I find her comments persuasive in light of what we already 
know. And along with what Ive already said with regards to sales such as this more broadly 
and considering what this service knows of sales such as this, means I consider it fair on 
balance that 3J Finance put things right in this particular case.
I can see that 3J Finance point to one of the documents that Miss S signed by hand and 
initialled various parts of and thinks this is persuasive. However it needs to bear in mind that 
Miss S has made clear she did not see the electronic documents in any detail and didnt 
have opportunity to study them carefully. She describes how the representative had gone 
through a significant presentation beforehand and that some of the process had been put to 
her as being a formality. So in the context of the whole meeting and the presentation made 
to her by the representative as she describes it, I think it would be unfair in the round to say 
that this handwritten document on its own is sufficient to overturn the consistent and 
persuasive representations Miss S has made about what happened that day and that the 
completion of documents was a formality. Bearing in mind the issues Ive described it seems 
fair to me to allow Miss S to withdraw from the agreement when she tried to on the basis of 
what Im satisfied on balance she was told.
This service has seen a significant number of cases as Ive described which correspond with 
the issues the FCA has set out (and indeed a smaller number which do not). I note that 3J 
hasnt persuasively engaged here on why these complaints about such sales with common 
themes keep arising and coming to our service. All in all Im persuaded by what Miss S says 
did happen here rather than what 3J Finance said would or should have happened in her 
case. So Miss S complaint is successful.  
Putting things right
I direct 3J Finance to take the following actions:
Cap Miss Ss liability for the loan at the sum of the repayments which were due as of
the date she first contacted either the course provider or 3J Finance to cancel. 
Anything above this amount must be written off and no longer pursued.
If Miss S has paid more than this capped liability, then any overpayments must be
refunded to her, along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date she
made each overpayment, to the date she receives a refund.
If Miss S has paid less than this capped liability then an affordable repayment plan 
must be arranged for the outstanding balance up to the cap.
Remove any negative information relating to the loan from Miss Ss credit file and 
mark it as settled from the first date she contacted either the course provider or 3J 
Finance to cancel. If Miss S has not paid up to this capped liability then 3J Finance 
does not need to mark the loan as settled until she has paid up to the cap.
Arrange with Miss S for the return of any course materials, DVDs and anything else 
she received under the contract, and the ending of any other services supplied under 
the contract. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 3J Finance to take tax off this interest. 3J Finance must
give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Miss S asks for one.
  
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against 3J Finance Limited and direct 
it to put things right as I have set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman