DRN-3905645
The complaint
Mr M complains Santander UK Plc blocked a transfer he was trying to make from his savings 
account.
What happened
Mr M was on holiday abroad and wanted to transfer the balance of his savings account with 
Santander to a savings account at another bank. He processed the transfer using his mobile 
banking app but having done so, discovered he had been logged out of the app and couldnt 
log back in. When Mr M checked the other account, he found the transfer had not been 
made. 
Mr M contacted Santander but found it took him over an hour to get through to someone and 
for his mobile banking to be reinstated and the payment made. He said this cost him a lot of 
money as hed been calling from abroad. Mr M complained. 
Santander responded to Mr Ms complaint. They said Mr Ms payment had been stopped for 
security reasons so they hadnt made a mistake but credited Mr M with £50 in respect of the 
time hed spent on the phone getting things resolved. 
Mr M wasnt happy with this response and referred his complaint to our service. An 
Investigator considered his complaint and said, in summary, Santander were entitled to 
block Mr Ms payment for security checks and he felt the £50 that had been offered for the 
time spent on the phone was fair.
 
Mr M didnt agree, he said Santander didnt attempt to call him to check the payment was 
genuine and the telephone number the app told him to call cut him off and closed at 8pm 
before he could get through to someone. 
As Mr M didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All banks have fraud prevention measures in place. These are designed to protect 
customers and the bank. Its for financial businesses to decide how their fraud prevention 
measures operate and which transactions will be subject to further checks. And the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ms account set out the circumstances in which transactions and online 
banking access can be blocked. 
Mr M is unhappy his transaction was stopped and that he was asked the same questions on 
the phone that hed already answered in the app. Santander have provided evidence to 
show Mr Ms transaction was stopped by their fraud prevention system so, although I 
understand Mr Ms point, Im satisfied Santander didnt treat him unfairly by blocking the 
transaction or his online banking access in the circumstances. 
Mr Ms main concern was with the difficulty he had getting through to Santander to speak to 
someone about being locked out of his mobile banking. He was also unhappy Santander 
seemingly made no attempt to contact him. The number the app directed Mr M to ring is a 
number which has the published opening hours of 7am  8pm Monday to Saturday on 
Santanders website. According to Santanders records, he first encountered the problem 
with his transaction before 8pm. So I dont think theres anything wrong in the app providing 
this number. And I dont think its unreasonable Santander didnt contact Mr M, since the app 
had already told him hed need to contact them. 
But Mr Ms complained that  because he had been waiting for someone to answer his call - 
he was cut off and that the automated message said the lines were closed after 8pm. He 
was also worried, not just about the payment he was trying to make, but his other accounts 
and other payments like direct debits that were due to be paid the next day. 
Santander says if their main line is closed, customers are offered  when calling that number 
- an option to be transferred to the fraud team. But Mr M says he was forced to make a total 
of 16 calls to a variety of numbers on Santanders, and other websites, before he eventually 
got through to someone who could help. I dont know why Mr M wouldnt have been offered 
the option to select a transfer to the fraud team when calling the main line. But I can see 
from Santanders notes that Mr M was able to speak to someone after 8pm. I can also see 
that Mr M was forced to call back after the first call was disconnected. So I can see why this 
caused him some confusion and frustration  although I havent seen anything to suggest 
the first call was disconnected because of an error by Santander. I agree with Mr M that it 
shouldnt have been difficult to find the right number to speak to Santander on. But, overall 
Mr M had spoken to someone, unblocked his account and had his payment set up again 
about an hour after he first tried to make it. So I think the £50 Santander has already paid is 
fair in respect of this.
Mr Ms unhappy because these calls cost him a lot more than £50 because he was calling 
from abroad. Thats unfortunate, but using a UK bank account from abroad is, inevitably, 
going to be more inconvenient than it otherwise would be. And, as I dont think Santander 
did anything wrong in blocking his account in the first place, I dont find they need to cover 
the cost of the calls. 
Overall Im satisfied Santander treated Mr M fairly.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman