The complaint
Ms L has complained about First Central Insurance Management Limited (trading as "1st 
Central") and its handling of her motor insurance claim, the sale of her "Excess Protect" 
policy and the way in which it dealt with various complaints she made about the service it 
provided.
What happened
Ms L purchased a motor insurance policy through Confused.com in August 2018. During the 
application process for the car insurance, Ms L was offered an additional "Excess Protect" 
policy, which she accepted.
In July 2019 Ms L made a claim for damage to her vehicle caused by a third party. Ms L 
initially decided to contact the third party to try to claim from it directly. When this claim was 
rejected, 1st Central told Ms L that a claim could now be made through her Excess Protect 
policy.
Ms L complained about the time and effort it took to obtain a refund of the excess. Ms L's 
representative has said, on Ms L's behalf, that the policy was mis-sold and was not fit for 
purpose.
Our investigator considered Ms L's complaints. He didn't think the Excess Protect policy had 
been mis-sold, or that it was not fit for purpose. Ms L's representative disagreed with our 
investigator's opinion on Ms L's behalf and so the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've decided not to uphold this complaint. I'll explain why.
Ms L's representative has made a number of points on Ms L's behalf. I've taken all those 
points into consideration, but I won't be commenting on each and every point raised. No 
discourtesy is meant by this. It simply reflects the informal nature of this service. In this 
decision I've focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Ms L's representative has explained that Ms L had to make numerous calls and send emails 
complaining to 1st Central in order to get a refund of the excess. The representative has 
said, on behalf of Ms L, that these complaints were closed by 1st Central despite not being 
resolved to Ms L's satisfaction.
DRN-1502368I recognise that Ms L is unhappy with the service 1st Central provided. We don't have the 
power to look at every complaint we receive. Our powers to consider complaints are set out 
in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and in rules known as the Dispute 
Resolution (or DISP) Rules, written by the Financial Conduct Authority in accordance with 
the powers it derives from FSMA. These form part of the FCA Handbook. DISP2.3.1 sets out 
which complaints this service can and can't look at, and these include complaints about 
regulated activities, or ancillary activities carried out in connection with something we have 
the power to consider.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated or otherwise covered activity. However, I 
am satisfied that the complaint handling in this case was ancillary to, or closely related to, 
the complaint about the mis-sale and suitability of the Excess Protect policy, which means I 
have considered it. In doing so, I should point out that in a customer's day to day dealings 
with financial businesses, particularly in the course of making complaints, we expect there to 
be some minor inconvenience to a customer. So I have considered whether 1st Central's 
handling of Ms L's complaints was likely to have had a significant impact on Ms L, which was 
more than a minor inconvenience or upset. And I've not seen enough evidence to persuade 
me that it did. So I won't be asking 1st Central to compensate Ms L for trouble and upset 
caused as a result of how it handled any of the complaints mentioned here.
I've also looked at how the Excess Protect policy was sold to Ms L. Ms L bought the car 
insurance using a comparison website, and the excess protection was an additional 
product offered at the time. Each product was sold on a non-advised basis, which means 1st 
Central didn't give Ms L any advice or make any recommendations as to which policies 
she should buy. And from the evidence I've seen, I think it would've been clear to Ms L that 
excess protection was an optional extra. So I can't say the Excess Protect policy was mis-
sold to Ms L.
Ms L's representative has also said Ms L wouldn't have entered into the insurance contract if 
she had known that her data would've been passed on to different companies. And as 
Ms L's representative has already contacted the Information Commissioner's Office (the 
relevant body for information rights issues) about this, I won't be commenting on that point. 
Ms L's representative has also asked that we pass on the concerns raised to the FCA. It's 
our responsibility to investigate the individual issues in complaints referred to us and 
communicate our findings to the parties involved. We won't generally notify consumers of 
any internal referrals we make to the FCA about wider issues. But Ms L's representative is 
free to contact the FCA and inform it of Dr L's concerns independently.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman