DRN-3538886
The complaint
Ms C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc have unfairly registered a default on her credit file.
What happened
Ms C had a credit card with HSBC. In August 2017, she became no longer in employment,
so she rang HSBC to inform them of her change in circumstance. She says she was
informed by the call handler that no further charges would be added to her account during
that time.
Ms C also says that she informed HSBC in February 2018, that she hadnt been receiving
correspondence from them, as she had spoken to two call handlers that said HSBC had sent
her letters about her account. She says she told the call handlers she wasnt aware of the
next steps, but the call handlers were unsympathetic to her situation.
Ms C says that a default had been added to her credit file for her account, despite HSBC
being aware there were issues with her receiving her post. She says she was never sent a
default notice by HSBC and the outstanding debt had been transferred from HSBC to a third
party debt collector and back to HSBC on a couple of occasions.
Ms C says that in December 2020, she received a cheque for £50 as HSBC informed her
they had reviewed the quality of service she had received by their collections/recoveries
team and theyd identified it was not at the standard HSBC would expect. Ms C also noticed
that HSBC hadnt stopped all of the charges on her account as a total of £65.87 had been
added to her account. Ms C complained to HSBC.
HSBC sent Ms C a cheque for a further £79.45, to reflect the £65.87 they had overcharged
her and added interest. But they said any entries on her credit file in relation to her credit
card account had been applied correctly. HSBC said as they are a responsible lender, they
have a duty to report any defaults, outstanding balances or missed payments to the Credit
Reference Agencies.
Ms C brought her complaint to our service. She said she had not been supported during her
financial difficulty in 2017-2018 and it was clear she did not understand the process, in
addition to not receiving correspondence from HSBC. She says she wants the default to be
removed from her credit file. Ms C says she has had poor communication with HSBC
throughout the entire time she had an account with them.
Our investigator did not uphold her complaint. On HSBC registering the default, he said
HSBC had supported Ms C when she let them know she was in financial difficulty, by
applying a breathing space. This would mean no interest was charged on her account
between September-November 2017. He said that Ms C did not begin making her
contractual payments, addressing the arrears, or getting back in touch with HSBC for further
support after this timeframe.
Our investigator explained that the breathing space was generally reasonable for short term
financial difficulties  before potentially discussing further options if long term support is
required. But without contact or repayment in December 2017, HSBC sent Ms C a default
notice, followed by a final demand. He concluded that HSBC hadnt made an error in
applying the default to the account.
In terms of the customer service that Ms C received, our investigator said that while HSBC
had passed the outstanding debt to third party debt management companies, they took the
debt back on Ms Cs requests due to her ill health at the time she requested HSBC to take
the debt back. He also explained that the wording Ms C was not happy with on the
correspondence from HSBC after she had paid her credit card off was automatically
generated and HSBC have apologised for this. Ms C asked for an Ombudsman to review her
complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. For ease
of reading Ill detail my decision in two parts  the default and the customer service.
Default
Ive read everything that Ms C has said about the unfairness of the default being applied to
her account. I know she feels that as HSBC has said their collections/default process would
be different now  and they have paid her compensation because of this, that this is an
indication that they didnt treat her fairly at the time she told them she was having financial
difficulties. She believes this is why HSBC ultimately applied a default to the account and
registered this with Credit Reference Agencies. So I understand why this is so important to
her.
But in order to uphold this part of her complaint, I would need to see if HSBC didnt follow the
Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference
Agencies (PRAAD). HSBC have an obligation to ensure her payment history is accurately
reflected in the information they report to the Credit Reference Agencies. And Im satisfied
that it has been reported accurately here, and Ill explain why.
The PRAAD states that a default would usually occur if the customer falls into arrears on
their account, or they do not keep to the revised terms of an arrangement, a default may be
recorded to show that the relationship has broken down. As a general guide, this may occur
when somebody is three months in arrears, and normally by the time somebody is six
months in arrears.
While Ms C had explained to HSBC she was in financial difficulty, HSBC would still need to
follow the guidance set out in PRAAD. Ive looked at Ms Cs statements during this
timeframe and I can see that breathing space had been applied to the account. Breathing
space would not usually prevent arrears from being reported to the Credit Reference
Agencies. In this case it was a tool to allow Ms C time to get back on her feet after no longer
being in employment and interest/charges should be frozen during this timeframe, but
arrears would still build up.
Ms Cs last payment around the time the breathing space was applied was 4 September
2017. So when Miss C did not make a payment still three months after this and she did notcontact HSBC to update them of her circumstances, HSBC were entitled to send the default
notice based on PRAAD guidance. They then sent a final demand, the following month in
January 2018. By this point it would have been over four months since Ms C had made her
last payment on her account. When the December 2017 default notice was sent out, Ms C
was in arrears on her account by over £400.
Ive looked at Ms Cs credit card statements. I can see that her first payment after the 4
September 2017 payment was on 15 March 2018. So it had been over six months since Ms
C had made a payment to her account. This was for £50, which was lower than her
contractual monthly payment. So I cant say that HSBC did anything wrong in recording the
default here.
Ive considered what Ms C has said regarding the phone calls shes had and her not being
aware of the process or the next steps. As Ms C is aware, the phone calls are not available
to listen to, due to the time thats elapsed since the events happened. So I cant say either
way what was discussed here. But due to Ms Cs financial difficulties in 2017-2018, Im not
persuaded that a default could have been avoided here.
I say this as Ms Cs financial situation does not appear to have improved before the default
had been applied. If her financial situation had improved before the default had been
applied, I would have expected to see that Ms C would have contacted HSBC to inform them
this. At the very least I would have expected Ms C to resume payments to her credit card
and if possible, to clear as much of the arrears of possible. But her statements do not reflect
that this happened. So Im persuaded the default would have always been inevitable due to
Ms Cs financial difficulties, regardless of the conversation she had with the call handlers
about her financial difficulties.
HSBC also met their regulatory duties by keeping Ms C up to date of the arrears status. Not
only would this be apparent on her monthly credit card statements. But HSBC also sent her
letters regarding the arrears, including, but not limited to a default notice and a final demand.
Ive read that Ms C had issues with some of the correspondence that HSBC has sent her
and shes said that HSBC had not sent her a default notice. But Im satisfied they did. The
letter is addressed to her registered address at the time. So Ive no doubt HSBC did send
this.
It may help if I explain to Ms C that HSBC are required to send certain correspondence by
post. So even though Ms C says she made HSBC aware that she wasnt receiving all of the
post they had sent her, HSBC would be required by the regulator  the Financial Conduct
Authority, to send certain correspondence by post. A default notice is generally one of the
documents that would be required to be sent by post. So although Ms C says she didnt
receive this, I cant hold HSBC responsible for any issues in the postal system, once HSBC
had sent the required notices to her registered address.
Although HSBC have since changed their collections/default process, they still had a duty to
register the default in line with the aforementioned PRAAD guidance. HSBCs procedure at
the time was to continue charging fees/interest until a debt management plan had been
agreed with a debt management company, whereas now they would suppress all fees and
interest once a customer seeks help with a debt management company. Im persuaded that
the new procedure would have still resulted in the default being registered on Ms Cs credit
file even if this was in place when she suffered financial difficulties.
In summary, Ive found no errors in how HSBC have registered the default. Ms C was
unfortunately unable to make at least her contractual monthly payment for a substantial
period of time  at least three months before the default notice had been sent to her
registered address and she had not made a payment for over six months from 4 September2017  13 March 2018. So I know Ms C will be disappointed, but Im unable to ask HSBC to
remove the default.
Customer service
As previously mentioned, I dont have access to the telephone conversations that Ms C has
had with HSBC, so Im unable to rely on these here. Ive considered what Ms C has said
about her account being passed to a third party debt management company and back to
HSBC on two occasions. But HSBC would be entitled to transfer a customers debt to a third
party debt management company to assist with collecting payments/arrears on the account.
As the complaint is against HSBC, I can only look into their actions here and not what a debt
management company have communicated (or not communicated to Ms C).
Ive looked at the notes HSBC have provided me regarding this. They show that the
outstanding debt had been placed with a third party debt management company on 10
December 2018 and Ms C asked for this to be passed back to HSBC on 1 February 2019,
as she explained she was back to work and asked HSBC to take the debt back 
management agreed to this on 4 February 2019.
The notes show this was passed to a third party debt management company on 4 May 2020
as Ms C had requested an arrangement on 3 June 2019, but this was rejected as Ms C was
off work with ill health. Ms C asked for this to be passed back to HSBC which they agreed to
in June 2020. So while it might be unusual for a company to transfer the debt back and forth,
it appears there was legitimate reasons to do so here. HSBC have acted upon Ms Cs
requests to return the debt to them  even though they didnt have to. So although Ms C
doesnt feel it was clear what happened here, ultimately, HSBC acted upon her requests.
Ms C says HSBC did not act upon a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) she was advised
to raise on a call on 17 March 2021. HSBC said they had no records of her requesting a
DSAR at all. I asked HSBC to send me the call recording, or if they didnt have the call
recording, to send me the call notes. HSBC sent me the call notes and they show that Ms C
called them to get information on settlements, but it doesnt show she requested a DSAR.
The notes state that Ms C was offered a 20% discount in 2018 and she asked if the offer
was still valid, which the call handler confirmed it wasnt, and they wouldnt offer any
discounts now, but she could put forward an offer for them to consider. Ms C then says she
will contact them in a few days. HSBC have told me that they can raise a DSAR if Ms C
wants them to, so Ive asked our investigator to raise this on her behalf, so Ms C should
receive this directly herself in due course.
Ive considered what Ms C has said about the letters she received in May 2021 being sent to
a previous address. I asked HSBC about this. They could not confirm to me why this had
happened. Im persuaded this is likely to be because HSBC did not update all of the relevant
systems when Ms C informed them of her change of address. It is my understanding that the
cheques she had been sent were sent to her correct address, so it appears different systems
have different addresses for Ms C.
So Im satisfied that theyve let Ms C down here. Its my understanding that the letters were
sent to Ms Cs parents address (which was her old address), so thankfully her parents were
able to inform Ms C of this. But this would have inconvenienced Ms C and potentially
distressed her. So I think its only fair for HSBC to recognise the impact that this would have
caused her.
Ive then considered what Ms C has said about HSBC referring to her credit card as a loan
and the content of the letters that HSBC sent to the previous address. It would have beenuseful for the representative to refer to the correct product. HSBC have confirmed the letters
they had sent her were automated.
Im not persuaded that referring to a credit card as a loan would have a big impact on Ms C,
although I can understand why this would frustrate her when she feels shes had no help
from HSBC during the events which led to her default. I can also understand why the
automated letters would make no sense to Ms C  as she didnt have access to online
banking, which one of the letters refers Ms C to her online document folder.
Based on the wording of the other letter, this would be relevant for a customer who chose to
close their account, not one whos account was closed down because of her financial
difficulty and subsequent default. So I can understand why Ms C feels HSBC havent taken
her circumstances into account when theyve communicated with her.
So Ive considered whether the compensation which HSBC paid Ms C was sufficient for the
customer service issues shes faced here. I know HSBC have previously sent Ms C cheques
for the reviews theyve carried out, but these issues are separate to what HSBCs reviews
were about. Ms C has previously said that she didnt cash in these cheques so I asked
HSBC if these would have expired. HSBC said that if the cheques had expired, then Ms C
should contact their business review team on the telephone number which is on their letter
they sent Ms C, so they could stop the cheques Ms C was sent and send out new cheques.
So I would urge Ms C to do this.
But I do not think this covers the impact of the poor customer service Ms C had from HSBC,
such as them sending correspondence to a previous address. While Im satisfied the default
was correctly applied, the poor customer service could make Ms C question that if HSBC got
many things wrong (such as sending correspondence to a previous address, referring to the
credit card as a loan, directing her to an online account she didnt have and inferring she
closed down her own credit card) then they couldve applied the default incorrectly also.
HSBC should recognise the impact the poor customer service has had on Ms C here and
pay her extra compensation for this. Im satisfied that an extra £100 would recognise the
impact that this had on Ms C. While some of the issues were due to automated letters, or
they shouldnt have had a big impact on Ms C, I think an extra £100 would recognise the
inconvenience and distress the poor customer service had on her. So it follows I intend to
ask HSBC to put things right for Ms C.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. HSBC accepted the provisional decision. Ms C did not respond to the provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask HSBC to pay Ms C an extra £100 for 
inconvenience. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Ms C an extra £100 for 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman