DRN-1855534
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Santander UK Plc reduced two of his investment income payments at 
short notice. He says had Santander informed him of the changes made to their fund, he 
would have moved his investment to another provider. Hes also unhappy with the customer 
service provided. 
What happened
In 2010, Mr W opened a stocks and shares ISA with Santander. He invested into the Sterling 
Corporate Bond Fund, which later became the Investment Income Portfolio. 
Mr W took an income from his investment  from September 2018 onwards, this was just 
over £55 a month. But in September 2019, Mr W received a letter from Santander to let him 
know that his income payments for that month and the following month would be reduced to 
account for lower income throughout the year. The letter said:
There has been a gradual fall in the actual income received in the fund, but the 
income paid out of the fund has remained consistent. The fund income has reduced 
compared to what had been expected when the smoothed rate was set because the 
fund manager has more recently focussed on lower risk assets, which pay less out 
as income.
So despite the reduced income expectations, Mr Ws monthly payments werent reduced 
simultaneously. While towards the end of a payment year the monthly payment might usually 
go up in order to pay out all final distributions, this time, Mr Ws last two payments were 
instead reduced by 60%. 
Although this meant Mr W simply received the correct income for the year, he was unhappy 
about not having prior warning of the change, so he made a complaint. Santander wrote to 
Mr W twice to clarify the reason for the reduction and to explain that the short notice had no 
impact given there was no financial loss  they upheld the complaint and said theyd 
adjusted the income payments so that theyd be correct. There was also a letter sent which 
Mr W didnt receive. Remaining unhappy with this and their overall service, he asked for our 
help.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but didnt think Santander had done 
anything wrong. She said that while the reduced payments were unexpected and 
inconvenient, Santander had to balance the income payments in line with the fund 
performance and Mr W received what he was entitled to. 
Another of our investigators took the complaint forward thereafter. He reconsidered 
Santanders actions but also didnt think theyd done anything wrong  he said the fund 
managers were entitled to make changes to the underlying investments, so long as they kept 
within the agreed parameters of the fund. 
Mr W said hed have perhaps wanted to change providers had he have known hed earn less 
that year  while our investigator noted that point as Santander could have smoothed 
payments earlier in the year or perhaps have given more notice, he couldnt be sure this was 
possible and regardless of that, there was no guarantee Mr W could have invested 
elsewhere and outperformed this investment. 
Mr W was of the view that he was invested in a high income fund and that the overall risk 
had been reduced, but our investigator said that despite being designed to produce income 
the fund was classified as low risk  so reference made to lowering the risk wasnt 
necessarily something outside of the agreed mandate for the fund.  
Mr W remained unhappy with this  he thought it was wrong of Santander to give such late 
notice, only two days before his income was due. And he thought he ought to have been 
informed when the lower risk strategy was decided. So his case was passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr W feels very strongly that Santander have acted unfairly here. But from 
everything Ive seen, I dont agree theyve done anything wrong.
Having considered Mr Ws statement summary for 2019, I can see he typically received 
around £55 each month. But for September and October, he received £21.46 and £22.01 
respectively. I appreciate this was disappointing for Mr W, especially to have not had much 
forewarning about the reduction. But as our investigators said, these reduced payments 
ensured Mr W earned the correct income due from the fund, rather than be overpaid. So I 
think it was fair for Santander to adjust the amounts paid, even though it did so at late notice.  
I take Mr Ws point that Santander could have reviewed the income payments earlier than 
they did. Perhaps this could have been a few months earlier and would have either given 
him more notice or given them a longer period over which to gradually apply the reduction. 
But Im not persuaded that this means theyve made an error which warrants compensation 
as I dont think the impact on Mr W requires it. Santander did acknowledge their 
shortcoming, and I think this is enough to recognise that they could have handled things 
better than they did. 
While speaking with one of our investigators, Mr W suggested that he would have moved his 
money elsewhere had he known about the investment decisions Santanders fund managers 
were going to make  the comment that they had more recently focussed on lower risk 
assets concerns Mr W as he says the decision to invest in this fund was based on the 
income generation objective.
But moving to an alternative wouldnt necessarily have guaranteed a higher level of income 
and I dont think Mr W would necessarily have made a change either  he is still invested in 
the fund now, despite the income throughout the year being less than he earned previously 
at c£43 a month  so Im not persuaded hed have moved his money if he was told earlier. 
From what Santander have explained, the investment decisions remained in line with the 
overall objectives of the fund, without considerable variation that might have changed Mr Ws 
mind about the investment appropriateness or viability. Santander classify Mr Ws fund as 
low risk  that isnt something weve evaluated as this isnt a complaint about suitability  but 
despite this it is still entirely possible for its focus to be on generating an income thats paid 
out rather than being reinvested. It appears that income generation remains to be a 
consistent focus of the fund and this hasnt fundamentally changed  so I dont have 
concerns that whats happened here means the fund management decisions have been outside of the remit of the fund. For that reason, I dont agree that there was a distinct 
change in investment focus that Santander ought to have to let Mr W know about. 
While Santander could perhaps have acted sooner to reduce monthly income payments, I 
dont think their failure to do so has made any material difference in this case  certainly not 
that would require compensation. Im sorry that Mr W felt let down and will be disappointed 
with my decision, but I wont be asking Santander to do anything differently here. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman