DRN-2897777
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the quality of a sofa and sideboard she purchased through an 
agreement with Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the goods should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If they werent Ikano are responsible. The relevant law 
also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
Mrs M bought her goods in 2015 but didnt seek to claim under the Care and Protect policy 
until 2020. As thats a long time after the goods were supplied I think it is reasonable to 
suggest it is for Mrs M to demonstrate the goods were not of satisfactory quality. Mrs M has 
told Ikano that the sofa is sagging and stained and there are scuff marks and discolouration 
on the side board. But without independent evidence to demonstrate that I dont think Ikano 
were unreasonable to reject her claim and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman
