DRN-4286716
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Alphabet (GB) Ltd (Alphabet) wrongly took a payment after her car 
hire agreement ended, which caused her stress and inconvenience to rectify. 
What happened
Mrs Gs car hire agreement with Alphabet came to an end via an early termination in 
February 2023 and the car was collected. A further invoice was issued for a payment in early 
March 2023, but Mrs G assumed it was an administrative error, as her agreement had 
finished. However, on 7 March 2023 a payment was taken. 
When Mrs G realised this, she contacted Alphabet to ask them to refund the money. Initially 
they arranged to return the payment via a BACS payment, but when it was made clear this 
could take ten days to arrive back with Mrs G, she asked for a quicker solution as she 
needed the money back. Alphabet explained they would arrange a CHAPs payment of the 
money which would be quicker but couldnt reverse the BACs payment so she would end up 
with two refunds and would need to send one payment back. 
This happened but Mrs G complained that Alphabet had wrongly taken the payment in the 
first place and took too long to put things right and caused her considerable stress by not 
responding to messages and calls. She also complained that they reported incorrect 
information on her credit file. 
 In their final response letter (FRL) to her complaint, Alphabet apologised, and partly upheld 
the complaint. They agreed they had made a mistake in taking the payment and agreed to 
remove the negative markers on her credit file. They also recognised she was without her 
funds for ten days, and while the interest loss on this was negligible, they offered a £25 
reduction on the balance she owed to return the double payment they had refunded, to cover 
any loss of interest and by way of an apology and recognition of the inconvenience they had 
caused. 
Mrs G wasnt happy with this response and brought her complaint to our service. An 
investigator here investigated the case and felt that Alphabet didnt need to do any more. 
They agreed with the FRL response from Alphabet and the compensation offered. Mrs G 
didnt agree with this and felt the distress and inconvenience she was caused warranted a 
payment of £1,000. 
She felt having read our guidance around compensation that she couldnt agree that £25 
was a fair amount when Alphabet had taken her money and marked a missing payment on 
her credit file. She said shed been treated unfairly and they had stolen her money from her. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision therefore. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
Alphabet have made an error in taking another direct debit payment of £196.91 in March 
2023, after the agreement had ended. Theyve explained that this happened because the 
instruction to cancel the direct debit hadnt been actioned quickly enough after they had 
agreed with her to end her car hire agreement in February 2023. But theyve recognised this 
was their error and apologised. 
Ive considered the impact this had on Mrs G, and whether the compensation offered is 
suitable. Mrs G has told us this caused her stress, and she had to make several phone calls 
to resolve the issue. I can see the details of this, but I also think its fair to consider the 
timescales involved. 
The payment was taken on 7 March 2023, and Mrs G noticed this and contacted Alphabet 
on 15 March 2023. Between 15 March and 18 March 2023 there are numerous emails and 
phone calls, which resulted in initially the BACs payment being processed, and then a 
CHAPs payment to enable the money to get back to Mrs G more quickly. 
By the 18 March 2023, Mrs G had her money back, so after she noticed the payment had 
gone and spoke to Alphabet, it took them three days to return the funds to her and 
apologise. 
Mistakes happen in all areas of life and business, and clearly Alphabet have made a mistake 
here. Reading the emails between the parties, its clear that normal business process was to 
send a BACs payment back to a customer, but when Mrs G asked for a quicker CHAPs 
payment, fairly quickly this was escalated up the chain to somebody able to authorise this 
and process it. I appreciate this took several phone calls, but these were all over a short 
period of time. 
Alphabet did this, knowing that they couldnt reverse the BACs payment they had already 
authorised, and Mrs G would get two refunds. I think this is good service and recognises the 
potential issues it could have caused Mrs G to be without her money for a further number of 
days. I appreciate it took several calls and emails to get to this point, but I think theyve 
recognised the issues and adapted their response accordingly. 
With regards to the credit file issue, it seems the missing payment that was reported on her 
credit file is the return of one of the refunds she received, as no payments were missing on 
the agreement. In their FRL, Alphabet have apologised and agreed to amend her credit file 
on the basis that whilst she did still owe the money, it was their error originally which caused 
this to happen, so it didnt feel fair to report that payment as missed. I think this is also a fair 
way of reflecting the circumstances at the time. 
Mrs G has said she doesnt feel the offer made by Alphabet reflects the circumstances of her 
complaint in our guidance on compensation published online. In these circumstances, Ive 
considered the time it took for the business to correct their errors, which was two to three 
days, any impact the error had on Mrs G, and how the complaint has been resolved. Having 
done so, I am satisfied that the resolution provided by Alphabet is fair, and in line with our 
guidance. I empathise with Mrs G and the immediate stress caused when she has spotted the error. 
But taking into account the size of the mistake, the speed it was dealt with, and the fairness 
of how it was resolved, I wont be asking Alphabet to do anything more.  
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman