DRN-4051060
The complaint
Mr K complains Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly closed his accounts. He wants to know Lloyds 
reasons, his accounts to be reinstated, and compensation.
What happened
Mr K held various accounts with Lloyds, including a credit card, accounts held in his name 
for his children, and a joint current account with his wife.
My final decision only considers the closure of accounts Mr K held solely, so not his joint 
current account. Im aware he was also concerned about an account in his wifes name only 
which was closed. 
In order for our service to consider a complaint about the joint account, his wife would need 
to join because as an account holder she has an interest in any outcome that our service 
might reach. Similarly, only Mr Ks wife can bring a complaint about the account she held 
solely  as the account holder only she is eligible to complain about it under the Dispute 
Resolution Rules (DISP) which set out our services jurisdiction.
Mr K says he applied to be a private banking customer with Lloyds in 2021, which wasnt 
approved. A few months later Lloyds decided to close all of his existing accounts. Mr K was 
surprised by their decision, given he had been a long-standing customer of theirs. He 
wanted to know why.
Lloyds said they didnt need to provide him with a reason in accordance with their terms and 
conditions. Later on, Lloyds offered him a small sum of redress to make up for incorrectly 
telling him they had decided not to close his credit card account, as that account would still 
close. 
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr K brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
decided to uphold his complaint. In summary they found:
Lloyds repeatedly failed to tell our service why they closed Mr Ks accounts. Although 
they werent obliged to tell him their reasons, they still needed to disclose them to our 
service. 
Our role was to consider whether Lloyds had treated Mr K fairly. As they refused to 
provide their reason(s) for closing the account, they hadnt shown they had. Lloyds 
should pay Mr K £150 to put matters right.
Lloyds didnt need to reopen his accounts.
Lloyds agreed to pay £150, but Mr K didnt accept the outcome. He said £150 wasnt 
enough, he wants his accounts reinstated, an apology, and to see evidence they are 
improving the service they give to customers. He asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman, so his complaint was given to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint, but I dont require Lloyds to do anything more than 
pay him £150. Ill explain why.
Lloyds dont have to tell Mr K why they closed his accounts, as detailed in their terms and 
conditions. I understand why this is frustrating for Mr K, but Im not awarding him 
compensation because he doesnt know why his accounts closed.
Lloyds, however, do have to provide our service with their reason(s) for closing Mr Ks 
accounts. I need to be able to consider their reason(s) to determine what is in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. I need to be able to test whether 
Lloyds decision to end their relationship with Mr K was an exercise of their commercial 
discretion, as opposed to it being an error or plainly unreasonable.
Lloyds should be aware of the evidential remit afforded to me under DISP 3.5 of the Dispute 
Resolution Rules. Among other things it gives me the power to require a firm to provide me 
with evidence, treat information in confidence where appropriate, and to reach a decision on 
the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the failure by a party to provide 
information requested (DISP 3.5.9R (3)).
Ive carefully considered Lloyds basis for not providing their reason(s) to our service. Im 
satisfied they arent correct and so Lloyds arent excluded from providing the information 
which has been requested from them. So, under DISP 3.5.9R (3) Ive taken account of 
Lloyds failure to provide information which they should have provided when reaching my 
decision.  
Im not satisfied Lloyds have shown they closed Mr Ks account within the bounds of their 
commercial discretion, so I cant reasonably conclude the trouble and upset he experienced 
as a result of their actions was justified. I find he should be awarded compensation. 
Mr K was a customer of Lloyds for a number of years, so he was no doubt impacted 
negatively when his accounts closed. Im satisfied £150 is adequate to make up for this. I 
havent seen evidence or information which would lead me to conclude a larger sum would 
be appropriate.
Im not directing Lloyds to reopen Mr Ks accounts. Lloyds dont want him as their customer, 
so requiring them to reopen accounts they could subsequently close again wouldnt be 
pragmatic in his circumstances. Ive also borne in mind that the underlying basis for Lloyds 
decision may be legitimate, even though they havent established this to my satisfaction. So, 
I dont require them to issue Mr K with a formal apology.
Mr K wants to see evidence that Lloyds have improved their customer service. But I dont 
find they need to do this. Its not my role to monitor or comment on the overall conduct of 
Lloyds outside of considering the individual circumstances of Mr Ks complaint. So, Ive not 
made findings on the overall service Lloyds provides to their customers.Putting things right
Subject to Mr K accepting my final decision, I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay him £150 in 
compensation within 28 calendar days of his acceptance.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr K compensation 
according to my direction above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman