DRN-1804441
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has declined a claim 
they made on their Home Insurance Cover for theft of a watch away from their home.
What happened
Both Mr and Mrs S are named policyholders on the insurance policy provided by Admiral  
so any claim or complaint is brought by them both. But as the complaint surrounds the loss 
of one of Mr S items, and has been brought primarily by him, Ill refer only to Mr S from here 
onward.
Mr S has several watches declared as specified items on his Home Insurance policy, which 
is underwritten by Admiral. These are items with a specified value, which can be covered for 
loss or damage while away from the home, subject to the policy terms and conditions.
Mr S took off his watch to shower at the gym and left it on a glass ledge within the shower 
cubicle. He left the cubicle to change and left the changing room to head upstairs before 
realising he had left his watch behind. When he returned to the shower cubicle, the watch 
was gone.
Admiral declined Mr S claim. It relied on the policy exclusion which says there will be no 
cover away from the home for theft of items not in the policyholders (or a member of their 
familys) care, custody or control. 
Mr S wasnt happy with this. He complained that as the items were specified on the policy, 
they should be covered in all circumstances and said he hadnt been told to read his policy 
information when he took it out.
Admiral provided its final response to Mr S complaint in September 2019. It said it had 
listened to the sales call and could confirm that its standard script had been read to Mr S, 
advising him to read his policy documents. It explained that the benefit of specifying items for 
cover is that they will be covered for their actual value, rather than the £1,000 single item 
limit for non-specified items. And it said the circumstances of the loss werent covered under 
the policy because of the care, custody or control exclusion. 
Mr S remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service where it was looked at 
by one of our investigators. She didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong. She said 
Mr S had been told to read his policy information when the policy was sold. She thought the 
exclusion in the policy was clear and that it applied to the circumstances of Mr S loss.
Mr S didnt agree. So, because no agreement has been able to be reached, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Since making the complaint to Admiral, Mr S seems to have accepted that specified items 
arent covered for every circumstance and that he was told to read his policy information 
when he bought the cover. I say this because his response to our investigators assessment 
focuses on the interpretation of the exclusion and whether or not his watch has been stolen. 
In any case, having listened to the sales call and reviewed the policy documents, Im 
satisfied that Mr S was told to review his policy documents. Im also satisfied that the policy 
documents explain that cover for items stolen away from the home arent covered when not 
in the care, custody or control of the policyholder or a member of their family.
This type of exclusion is not uncommon in insurance policies. The essence behind the 
exclusion is that items left unattended, or not in control of the policyholder, are at a higher 
risk of being stolen. This is not a risk that insurers like Admiral are willing to cover. Looking 
at the policy terms Im satisfied this exclusion is made clear.
In terms of the circumstances of the loss, there is no dispute as to what happened. Mr S 
watch was left in a shower cubicle and was unattended. In order to rely on the policy 
exclusion, Admiral needs to show that the watch was out of Mr S care, custody or control. 
And based on the facts here, Im satisfied it has shown that. I say this because Mr S wasnt 
able to prevent the theft and didnt see it happening. I understand that he was only gone for 
a few minutes, but during that time his watch was out of his care, custody or control. 
Mr S has argued that the exclusion only applies to theft or attempted theft. He says there is 
no evidence the watch was stolen and that it was simply not in the shower cubicle when he 
returned. Ive thought carefully about this argument, but it doesnt change my decision. I say 
this because Mr S has a clear recollection of where he left the watch and says it was only left 
there unattended for a short time. It therefore follows logically that it would still have been 
there when he returned to retrieve it, had it not been stolen. So, Im satisfied Admiral can 
fairly apply exclusion for theft or attempted theft.
Mr S says Admiral and our investigators suggestion seems to be that the watch wouldnt be 
covered unless being worn  which cannot be correct as the policy wording doesnt insist on 
this. Hes given examples of situations where the watch wouldnt be worn but would still be 
within his care, custody or control and so be covered.
Again, Ive considered Mr S arguments here. I agree the policy terms dont go so far as to 
say the watch needed to be worn in order to be covered. But I think a reasonable 
interpretation of them is that, for theft of the watch to be covered away from his home, Mr S 
should either be wearing the watch, have it about his person, or have it in such close 
proximity that he would be able to know if someone was trying to steal it. 
Im not able to consider hypothetical circumstances in which the watch could have been 
stolen and be covered. I need to consider the specific circumstances of Mr S case. And 
taking into account the circumstances here, I think Admiral has applied the exclusion fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold Mr and Mrs S' complaint about 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.Adam Golding
Ombudsman