DRN-3012532
The complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in March 2005 and January 2006. Mr and Mrs R say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
mis-sold them the PPI
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Rs circumstances at the time of the sales as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Rs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Rs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs R didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. Ill explain why.
Both sales took place in branch, whilst Mr and Mrs R were arranging further advances on 
their mortgage. Mr and Mrs R held a mortgage with BoS since 1985, and PPI was not 
sold to them until 2005. I think this shows that Mr and Mrs R had some awareness that 
the PPI was a separate and optional product, as they were able to have their mortgage 
for many years without the cover in place.
BoS hasnt provided the exact paperwork that was completed during the meetings. 
However, we have looked at sample documents which BoS says are indicative of the 
paperwork that wouldve been completed for mortgage PPI sales. This paperwork 
suggests the PPI wouldve been spoken about and Mr and Mrs R wouldve had to 
consent to the cover being added to their mortgage. 
BoS has also provided a copy of the mortgage offers that were given to Mr and Mrs R. 
Within these PPI has been selected and the level of cover for Mr and Mrs R is detailed, 
including the monthly premium. 
I dont know what was discussed during the meetings but looking at the information we 
have and based on our general understanding of how mortgage PPI was sold it seems 
there wouldve been a discussion about the PPI. I wouldve expected Mr and Mrs R to 
read over the paperwork and to have had an opportunity to raise any questions they had 
at the time. So, taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr Mr and Mrs 
R knew the policy was optional for both sales and they agreed to take the PPI out 
without undue pressure.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R in 2005 and 2006 so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for them. I will look at each sale in turn. 
2005 sale
The policy sold in 2005 was set up to cover Mr R only. The evidence about Mr Rs 
circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for him. Mr R was eligible for the cover and although he has referred to his 
employee benefits, I still think he had a need for the cover. I say this because the PPI 
wouldve paid out alongside any employee benefits Mr R may have received, and 
possibly for longer. Mr R has also referred to his death in service benefit, which I will 
address below.
There was nothing about Mr Rs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Mr R has referred to two health issues which he had some time 
before the policy was taken out. Having considered the information, we have about these 
health issues I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended it. I say this 
because Mr R has told us the conditions were treated at the time, and he had medication 
to help manage them. Mr R has also confirmed they didnt result in him having to take 
extended periods of time away from work. So it seems the PPI wouldve still been of use 
to Mr R. 
2006 sale
The policy sold in 2006 was set up to cover both Mr and Mrs R. The evidence about Mr 
and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally 
wrong or unsuitable for them. Both Mr and Mrs R were eligible for the cover. They have 
both referred to their employee benefits and say this means they didnt have a need for 
the PPI. However, the PPI wouldve paid out alongside these benefits and for longer if 
needed. Mr and Mrs R have also referred to their death in service benefit, but this 
provided a lump sum in the event of death, whilst the PPI covered them for accident, 
sickness and unemployment. Therefore, the cover afforded by both isnt comparable as 
they insured against different sets of circumstances.  
I can also see that Mr and Mrs Rs further advances were a significant and long-term 
financial commitment, which was secured on their home. So, the effects of not keeping 
up with the repayments couldve been serious for them.  I think having the security that part of the repayments wouldve been made if either Mr R or Mrs R was unable to work 
wouldve been important to them. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI on both occasions 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr 
and Mrs R as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they 
were buying from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so 
it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of 
this I dont think in either 2005 or 2006 Mr and Mrs R would have declined the cover had 
BoS done anything more.
While the both the policies contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale and 
despite its limitations, the policies werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. 
So I think they would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs R would have still taken out PPI policies. I think the cover 
could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also 
think the policies were sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And 
in those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policies in any event.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Rs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Rs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman