DRN-4474140
The complaint
Ms F is complaining that Think Money Limited wont refund the money she lost in a scam.
What happened
On 26 March 2023 Ms F received a message from someone pretending to be her son. The 
message said that he was messaging from a new number as hed broken his phone, and his 
bank card had been frozen for security reasons. He asked Ms F to pay some urgent bills for 
him.
Ms F asked some questions which the scammer was able to answer. She believed the 
scammer was her son and made a payment of £1,319.84 to a new payee the scammer 
asked her to set up, through her Think Money banking app.
The scammer asked Ms F to make another payment and she realised that she may not be 
speaking to her son. She didnt make the other payment and contacted her son on his 
existing phone number. Her son confirmed that he hadnt asked her to make any payments 
and Ms F realised she had been scammed.
Because it was a Sunday, Think Moneys phone lines were closed. Ms F tried to contact 
Think Money on their out of hours phone number but she wasnt able to get through. She did 
contact them the next day to report the scam.
Think Money attempted to recover the payment Ms F had made to the scammer but the 
received bank confirmed the money had been removed from the account. Think Money 
investigated what had happened, and told Ms F they wouldnt be refunding the money shed 
lost. 
Ms F brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into Ms Fs complaint but 
didnt recommend that Think Money should refund the scam payment. Ms F didnt agree, so 
her complaints been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to learn about what happened to Ms F. Theres no dispute that shes been the 
victim of a scam, and so I can understand why she would think she should receive a refund 
of the money she lost in the scam. But I dont think that I can fairly say that Think Money 
should refund the money Ms F lost. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Ms F authorised the payments. And Think Money have a duty to act 
on Ms Fs instructions. But in some circumstances, Think Money, as a regulated electronic 
money institute (EMI) should take a closer look at the circumstances of the payments  for 
example, if they ought to be alert to a fraud risk, because the transaction is unusual, or looks 
out of character or suspicious. And if so, they should intervene, for example, by contacting 
the customer directly, before releasing the payments. But Id expect any intervention to be 
proportionate to the circumstances of the payment.
Think Money have shown us Ms F received a scam warning when she set up the payment to 
the scammer. Theyve sent us a screenshot of the warning Ms F would have received. Ms F 
had selected the reason for the payment as friends and family and the warning described 
the sort of scam Ms F was experiencing. It explained that if the request for payment had 
been made on social media, a dating site or a messaging app it may be fake, and part of an 
impersonation scam. It advised Ms F to call the person on a trusted number, and to not send 
the payment if she was unsure, as Think Money may not be able to get the money back.   
Ms F confirmed she was happy to continue after being given this warning.
Ive thought carefully about the circumstances here. It looks like Ms F used her account with 
Think Money regularly, and she often made payments in the region of £400 or £500. 
Although the scam payment was higher than the regular payments Ms F usually made from 
her account, it wasnt significantly higher, nor was it a particularly significant amount that 
might generally trigger a business to contact their customer directly before allowing the 
payment to be made. Taking this into account, I think the scam warning Think Money gave 
Ms F was sufficient. I dont think they ought to have done any more to contact Ms F before 
releasing the payment in the circumstances.
There are industry standards around attempting recovery of funds where a scam is reported.
Think Money should have attempted to recover Ms Fs payments immediately on being told 
of the scam. And I can see that Think Money did contact the receiving bank to attempt 
recovery on the day Ms F spoke to them to report the scam. The receiving bank replied 
around a week later to confirm there were no funds available to recover.
Ms F did attempt to contact Think Money to report the scam on the same day it had 
happened  but this was a Sunday and Think Moneys general phone lines were closed. 
Think Money say they do have a record of Ms F attempting to contact their out of hours 
phone line, but the calls didnt come through successfully and they cant say why. But they 
also say the out of hours phone line was for lost and stolen cards only and they dont have 
an out of office hours facility for reporting a fraud or scam. So, I think even if Ms F had been 
able to speak to Think Money on the same day the scam took place she wouldnt have been 
able to report the scam any earlier than she did, when Think Moneys general phone line 
opened the next day.
I appreciate its frustrating for Ms F that she wasnt able to report the scam on the day it 
happened, but overall I dont think it would have made a difference to the outcome. A faster 
payment cant be cancelled or recalled so Think Money wouldnt have been able to stop the 
payment once it had been sent. It also took some time for the receiving bank to action and 
respond to Think Moneys recovery request, so I think its unlikely the money would have 
been successfully recovered even if the recovery attempt had begun a day earlier.  
I know this outcome will be very disappointing for Ms F, particularly in light of what she has 
told us about the impact of this scam and the loss of these funds, and Im sorry for this. 
However, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Think Money should have done more 
to prevent her loss. So, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask them to refund the payment 
she made.My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman