DRN-4246507
The complaint
Mr M complains that My Finance Club Limited (MFC) gave him loans without carrying out 
the correct affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr M was advanced two loans and Ive outlined a summary of his borrowing below:
loan 
numberloan amount agreement date repayment date contracted 
term (days)
1 £400.00 23/12/2021 28/01/2022 38
2 £400.00 28/02/2022 31/03/2022 38
After Mr M made a complaint about the loans, MFC responded and explained why it wasnt 
going to uphold his complaint. Unhappy with the response, Mr M referred the complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
In the adjudicators assessment, she didnt uphold the complaint because the checks that 
MFC carried out showed it that Mr M should be able to afford his repayments. 
Mr M didnt agree with the outcome saying his bank statement and credit file ought to have 
been enough to show that the loans should not have been granted and therefore his 
complaint should be upheld.  
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MFC had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. MFCs checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MFC should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. The adjudicator didnt consider 
this applied in Mr Ms case and I would agree, given there were only two loans of the same 
value. 
MFC was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
Before the loans were approved, Mr M declared he worked full time and he earned £3,009 
per month when both loans were applied for. MFC also says Mr Ms income was 
electronically verified through a third-party report  which suggested the income he had 
declared was likely to be accurate. 
In terms of monthly expenditure, Mr M provided details about his costs across several 
different headings such as, utilities, other, food and other credit commitments to name a 
few. MFC says Mr Ms outgoings came to £1,140 per month for loan one and £1,000 per 
month for loan two. Therefore, based on the information it had to hand these loans looked 
affordable as Mr M had sufficient disposable income. 
No housing costs had been declared, but Mr M had told MFC that he had accommodation 
provided as part of his job and MFC said this was verified using electoral roll data and so this 
supported Mr Ms lower levels of regular household expenditure.  So, the small housing 
costs wouldnt have been a concern. 
Before these loans were advanced MFC also carried out a credit search and it provided the 
results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although 
MFC carried out a credit search there wasnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone 
one to a specific standard. But what MFC couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then 
not react to the to the information it received  if necessary.  
I am satisfied that the credit check results wouldnt have been a concern for MFC for either 
loan. For loan one it knew that Mr M had a hire purchase agreement, two communication 
supply accounts, two current accounts and three loans. One of the loans had been opened 
in August 2021 but was up to date with the repayments. 
MFC also knew Mr M had opened a payday loan in November 2021  so the month before 
loan one. However, this appeared to be an instalment loan given the starting value of £1,000 
and the balance at the time the search was carried out was £885. The presences of one 
payday loan wouldnt have been sufficient for MFC to have conducted further checks when it 
appeared to have been well managed with no obvious repayment problems. For loan two the results from the credit reference agency are much the same, which would 
be expected given this check was only conducted two months later. However, this time MFC 
was told there wasnt any outstanding payday loans. 
Overall, taking account of the credit search results there wasnt any indication that Mr M 
would likely to struggle to repay these MFC loans, and there wasnt anything to suggest that 
he was reliant or payday loans or was a regular user of such products. This has led me to 
conclude that the credit searches on their own wouldnt be enough to have prompted further, 
more in - depth checks or to decline the two loans. 
I can see that as part of his submission that Mr M has provided a copy of his bank 
statements from around the time these two loans were advanced. Mr M has told us about his 
gambling, and I can see that from his bank statements he was moving significant amounts to 
such sites as well as crypto currency exchanges. But, that information wasnt disclosed to 
MFC as part of the application process and the information MFC did receive both from Mr M 
and the credit reference agency didnt suggest that Mr M was having or likely having 
financial difficulties. 
There were also no triggers in the way loan one was repaid or in the loan values to have 
prompted MFC to do further checks, such as reviewing his bank statements.  Given what 
MFC did know about Mr Ms spending and it wouldve been disproportionate for it to have 
considered the bank statements at this point in the lending relationship. 
Overall, given these were the only loans in the lending chain and they were for the same 
amount of capital, it was reasonable for MFC to have relied on the information that Mr M 
provided about his income and expenditure. The checks MFC carried out where 
proportionate and showed Mr M should be able to afford the repayments.  There also wasnt 
anything else to suggest that the loan would either be unaffordable for him or unsustainable. 
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint about these loans.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman