DRN-3367264
The complaint
Mr W is a sole trader. He complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly 
declined his applications for a Bounce Back Loan. He also complains that his original 
application for a business account wasnt processed when he applied initially. 
What happened
Mr W wanted to apply for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) with NatWest, but he didnt hold an 
account with the bank. Mr W said he applied for a business account with NatWest in 
February 2020 - but didnt get confirmation that the application was being processed. So he 
applied again several times from June to October 2020. However, NatWest wasnt opening 
any new business accounts for applications submitted after 4 May 2020, so Mr Ws 
applications werent progressed. 
In December 2020, NatWest started to accept new account applications again, so Mr W 
made another application. This was successful and the account was opened in January 
2021. On the same day the account was opened, Mr W applied for a BBL with NatWest. The 
bank declined the application on the basis that Mr W hadnt been trading before 1 March 
2020, as required by the BBL Scheme eligibility criteria  but this was incorrect. 
Mr W knew this was incorrect, so he applied again for a BBL a couple of days later. NatWest 
also declined this application as it said it couldnt verify his income or that hed been trading 
before 1 March 2020. 
In February 2021, Mr W applied again. NatWest said it couldnt offer a BBL to Mr W as he 
didnt have an account with the bank before 4 May 2020. Mr W said hed made an 
application for an account before this date, but the bank had lost it. Mr W applied again a 
couple of days later and again the application was declined as the bank said it couldnt 
evidence Mr W was trading on 1 March 2020. So Mr W made a complaint.
NatWest upheld Mr Ws complaint. The bank said it was unable to locate the original account 
application Mr W said hed submitted - but accepted what hed said. NatWest also agreed it 
had given him incorrect information about the reasons his BBL applications had been 
declined and paid him £500 compensation for the inconvenience. However, it said it was 
only accepting BBL applications from existing customers whod held accounts before 4 May 
2020, so it wasnt able to offer him a BBL. Mr W didnt think this was fair so he asked this 
service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said there wasnt enough 
evidence to say Mr W had submitted an account application in February 2020, but NatWest 
had given him the benefit of the doubt when upholding his complaint. So she said his 
applications had been assessed fairly. The investigator also said lenders had discretion on 
who they offered BBLs to, and as Mr W didnt meet NatWests criteria, it was fair for them to 
decline his applications  although the reasons for the decline could have been clearer.
NatWest agreed with the investigators view, but Mr W didnt. He said hed started his 
account application in February 2020 - but this hadnt been progressed due to the pandemic, 
and that the bank had agreed to honour the date of his original application. So Mr W said he 
should be eligible to apply for a BBL with NatWest as he would have had his account before 
the deadline the bank was using for its eligibility criteria. He also felt the banks delays had 
stopped him applying for a BBL with a different lender. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr W has explained at length the issues hes been caused by the banks decision not to offer 
him a business account for many months  and therefore decline his BBL applications. I 
recognise that any delays in would be difficult, and even more so in a pandemic. But even 
though NatWest made some errors with the information Mr W was given about his 
application outcomes, I dont think the bank treated him unfairly with its decisions.
Although the BBL Scheme is a government backed scheme, lenders had some discretion to 
decide how they would accept applications, both from new and existing customers. So 
NatWest used its discretion to only offer BBLs to existing customers who had accounts with 
the bank prior to 4 May 2020  due to the high demand it was experiencing. NatWest told us 
it also made the decision not to open any new business accounts past this date for the same 
reason.  
Mr W has told us he should be eligible to apply to NatWest for a BBL as he applied for a 
business account with the bank in or around February 2020, and it lost his application. 
However, NatWest has told us it has completed searches for any records of Mr W 
completing an earlier application, but it has no record of any application until Mr W applied 
for a business account and savings account in June 2020.
Ive looked at the banks case notes and system records - which are detailed  and I havent 
seen any evidence of an application being received from Mr W before this date. And Mr W 
hasnt provided anything to show that he submitted an application February 2020.
Ive also not found that NatWest told Mr W that it would honour the disputed February 
application. NatWest has provided recordings of the calls on which Mr W says he was told 
this - but Ive not heard any mention of any prior application at all. NatWest said it gave Mr W 
the benefit of the doubt on this point when reviewing the complaint, which has perhaps 
caused some confusion. 
But having looked into things more fully, Ive not found any record of an application in 
February 2020 or an agreement on the banks part to honour it. So I dont think NatWest did 
anything wrong in declining Mr Ws application on the basis that hed not bank with it since 4 
May 2020 as required by its criteria.
Mr W says NatWests actions were unfair and jeopardised his chances of getting a BBL and 
saving his business. But Mr W wasnt an existing customer of the bank, and Ive seen that 
NatWests website explained that it was only accepting BBL applications from existing 
customers on or before 4 May 2020 and that customers opening accounts with the bank 
after this date wouldnt be able to apply. So I think it was clear that Mr W wasnt going to be eligible to apply for a BBL with the bank 
at any point. NatWest has confirmed that its decision on which customers to offer BBLs to, 
didnt change throughout the length the Scheme was offered. So I think it was reasonable of 
the bank to decline Mr Ws BBL applications. 
However, Ive looked at copies of the application decline responses Mr W received from 
NatWest and I agree they dont explain the real reason for the banks decision. Ive seen that 
several times, Mr W was told the application was declined because he didnt meet the 
Scheme eligibility criteria as his business wasnt trading before 1 March 2020. Mr W was 
then told that he needed to provide more information about his turnover and his accounts to 
support his BBL application. However, Mr W wasnt going to be eligible once hed provided 
this as he didnt meet the existing customer criteria NatWest was applying to BBL 
applications. 
Mr W also told us that he joined his partners account because of the account opening 
issues, but the evidence shows this was in June 2020  after the date NatWest were 
accepting applications, so it wouldnt have affected the banks decision. I think it was 
reasonable of the bank not to open Mr W a new account as his subsequent applications 
were sent between June to October 2020 - and these were made after NatWest had stopped 
accepting applications. 
This was a commercial decision NatWest was entitled to make, and I havent seen any 
evidence this was only applied to Mr Ws applications. Once the bank started to accept new 
account applications in December 2020, Mr W was able to apply and a new account was 
opened for him in January 2021. So I cant say NatWest treated Mr W unfairly as it accepted 
and processed his application in around 20 working days  which I dont think was 
unreasonable.     
Mr W has told us he was caused distress and inconvenience because of the incorrect 
information he was given. Although I dont disagree with NatWests decision to decline 
Mr Ws BBL applications, I think it was reasonable for him to think the bank had made an 
error with his application with its first few responses, and then to have hope his application 
would be successful if he provided the additional information the bank requested.  
The bank has recognised its service didnt meet its standards and the bank has apologised 
and paid £500 compensation which I feel is reasonable. So based on what Ive seen, I think 
the bank has done enough to put things right, so I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman