DRN-4194259
The complaint
Mr H complains that AJ Bell Asset Management Limited made a mistake when sending a
transfer instruction concerning his self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says hes
suffered a financial loss as a result.
What happened
Mr H held a SIPP containing different accounts with a company Ill refer to as A. The SIPP
contained a mixture of cash and funds/assets. Mr H had agreed a flexi drawdown
arrangement in relation to one of his accounts.
Mr H wanted to move his SIPP to AJ Bell, so he submitted a transfer request, which AJ Bell
received on 9 March 2022. Mr H said he wanted to arrange an in specie transfer of the
SIPPs full value (£1,165,240). He listed the different account numbers and confirmed that
£59,922 was in drawdown and £1,105,318 wasnt.
After speaking to A, Mr H decided not to proceed with his full transfer request. He sent
another transfer form, which AJ Bell received on 11 March 2022. In an email that
accompanied the new transfer request, Mr H pointed out that he was only looking to
complete a partial transfer from one of his accounts which contained cash and funds. He
said please note, that this partial transfer only relates to the cash elements of the account.
He said hed send another transfer form in respect of the remainder of his accounts at a later
date. Mr H said he was completing the transfer in stages as he wanted to transfer the cash
as soon as possible and hed been told that a full transfer, including funds, would take longer
to arrange. On the form itself, Mr H indicated that the transfer was to be in the form of cash
only and he was looking to move £403,802.00, of which £343,880 wasnt in drawdown and
£59,922.00 was. He asked AJ Bell to disregard the first transfer form it received.
AJ Bell asked Mr H if £59,922.00 represented the full value of the account, or if this was just
the cash portion. Mr H said the drawdown account only consisted of cash. AJ Bell instructed
a partial cash transfer of £59,922.00.
There were some difficulties in carrying out Mr Hs request, initially because A said that, due
to HMRC rules, it couldnt partially transfer a pension already in drawdown.
Mr H completed another transfer form on 22 March 2022. He indicated he wanted to
complete a full transfer of a specific account and said that some of his fund was already in
partial drawdown. He confirmed that £969,538 wasnt in drawdown and £59,922 was. From 
what AJ Bell later explained to Mr H, it seems A wasnt able to process a transfer for 
crystallised and uncrystallised funds under the same request. That apparently led to AJ Bell 
sending different requests under different reference numbers.
A told AJ Bell that an amount it asked to be transferred was significantly different to the
amount held in Mr Hs account. So, on 24 March 2022 AJ Bell asked Mr H if he wished to
transfer the full balance regardless of the amount. Mr H confirmed that he wanted to transfer
the full balance of his account.
AJ Bell told Mr H that A wouldnt allow the transfer in specie. It asked Mr H if he was happy
for the transfer to proceed in cash. According to AJ Bell, Mr H confirmed on 25 March 2022
that he wanted to transfer the cash balance of £343,880 from the uncrystallised part of one
of his accounts and he said hed arrange to complete the paperwork to transfer the
remaining funds and shares across his accounts. AJ Bell confirmed it had instructed a partial
cash transfer of £343,880 and would await the paperwork for the in specie parts of the
transfer.
However, Mr H later learned from A that it had begun selling down the funds in his account
based on AJ Bells instruction. Mr H was unhappy about that as it wasnt what hed
instructed. He spoke to AJ Bell about it.
Mr H clarified that the cash in the account was made up of two parts - £343,880 which was
uncrystallised and over £59,000 that was crystallised. AJ Bell realised that although its
request to A mentioned the amount to be transferred was £343,880 (it seems it had already
received another amount of over £59,000), it also referred to the transfer as a full transfer.
And although A had pointed out that the amount requested didnt match the full account
balance, in error, it still asked A to proceed with a full cash transfer. AJ Bell accepted thats
what caused the problem.
There were discussions between Mr H and AJ Bell about how things could be put right. Mr H
suggested that AJ Bell should compare what his portfolio would cost to repurchase on AJ
Bells platform at the point at which his account was credited (£681,954.17 was received on
12 April 2022) versus the value when it was sold down. He felt the difference in those values
would represent the loss hed suffered and was the amount he should be compensated by.
On 13 April 2022 Mr H invested £225,000 with a further £229,984.62 invested over the
following four weeks.
Agreement wasnt reached, so AJ Bell later dealt with Mr Hs concerns under its complaints
procedure.
AJ Bell appeared to acknowledge that typically, the right way to calculate financial loss was
to make a direct comparison of the assets sold compared with those later purchased -
assuming there was a consistent investment strategy. But it didnt think that was appropriate
in Mr Hs case due to the change in his investment strategy. Instead, it felt it was fairer to
consider potential losses using a benchmark of the FTSE250 index. Having worked out the
potential loss, AJ Bell initially offered Mr H compensation of £303.20 in respect of the
financial loss it thought hed suffered together with a compensation payment of £100 in
respect of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr H wasnt happy with AJ Bells response, so he complained to our Service. Amongst other
things, he explained to our Investigator that following AJ Bells mistake, the market for the
shares had risen by the time the cash was in his account to reinvest. Whilst Noting AJ Bells
argument that Mr H hadnt reinvested straight away (so it felt that reduced the extent of any
loss incurred) Mr Hs point was that the cash was insufficient to repurchase the shares. And
he felt the fact he didnt immediately reinvest was immaterial. So, Mr H remained of the view
that any difference in the price his shares were sold at versus their price when the cash was
in his account should be met by AJ Bell.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. She didnt think AJ Bells proposed method of redress
was fair. The Investigator concluded that had it not been for the error, Mr Hs funds would
have remained invested as they were until such time as he opted to switch. So, the
Investigator didnt agree that AJ Bells proposal would put Mr H back into the position hed
have been in had it not been for its error. To put things right, the Investigator recommendedthat AJ Bell should complete a loss assessment based on the notional value of Mr Hs fund
also allowing for the fund switches that Mr H later completed. She suggested that if there
was a loss, that amount should be paid into Mr Hs pension where possible. She also
recommended that AJ Bell pay Mr H £250 for any upset and inconvenience caused.
Although AJ Bell didnt necessarily disagree with the Investigators opinion, it nevertheless
asked for clarification about how to calculate the proposed redress. There were several
exchanges between AJ Bell and our Investigator in terms of how that calculation should be
performed.
AJ Bell updated its loss calculation. It thought Mr H had suffered a loss of £1,413.04. So
together with the compensation payment of £250 that our Investigator recommended, it said
it was willing to make a payment of £1,663.04 to Mr H. It gave a rationale for its calculation,
which was:
It calculated an initial loss of £3,256.87 taking account of the total assets disinvested
in error and the amount Mr H would likely have disinvested at a later date in line with
the change in his investment strategy. It said the assets disinvested in error between
25 and 28 March 2022 were worth £627,697.67. It thought that had Mr H disinvested
over 11 and 12 April 2022 instead (given the investments he made from 13 April
2022 onwards), the market movements would have resulted in Mr H receiving an
extra £3,256.87.
It also took account of the fact that Mr H changed his investment strategy from about
13 April 2022 and then traded daily between then and about 21 April 2022. He traded
again on 10 May 2022 about three weeks following his last trade. And he decided to
leave £286,990 uninvested.
AJ Bell felt its proposed payment also recognised that Mr H would have sold shares at a
higher price in the disinvestment phase whilst also buying assets at a higher price.
Our Investigator put AJ Bells offer to Mr H noting that it seemed to be in line with what shed
recommended.
Mr H said the amount offered was only equivalent to about half of the loss he incurred when
factoring in the difference between the value of his assets at the time of the (incorrect)
disinvestment and the cost to repurchase the same assets when the cash became available
to reinvest. He appreciated that represented a theoretical loss as opposed to an actual one
and wasnt necessarily an industry method for calculating financial loss. But he made the
point that, had he immediately reinvested back into the same funds as before, AJ Bell would
have been required to pay him a larger sum in compensation.
Mr H also felt that when asking him what he expected AJ Bell to do to put things right, it
should have told him of the need to crystallise any losses by immediately reinvesting in the
same funds. Mr H says hed unquestionably have done this. So, he felt that AJ Bells initial
error and failure to explain things in these terms had left him significantly out of pocket. Our
Investigator explained that we have to consider the position Mr H would likely be in, had it
not been for AJ Bells error. As no agreement could be reached, Mr H asked for his
complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman. Its been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I sent Mr H and AJ Bell my provisional decision on 1 June 2023. Ive included the relevant 
extracts below:Theres general agreement between Mr H and AJ Bell that it made a mistake when
instructing a transfer on Mr Hs SIPP. So, I dont think its necessary for me to go into too
much detail about what led to that. I think the background events Ive included earlier in this
decision provide relevant context.
But as far as a settlement of this complaint is concerned, Mr H and AJ Bell clearly have
different views about what should happen.
AJ Bell thinks its revised compensation offer is fair, but also takes into account that Mr H
changed his investment strategy. Whereas Mr H is of the opinion that AJ Bell should base
any financial loss payment on the theoretical losses he suffered as opposed to the actual
losses. Specifically, he thinks that AJs Bells calculations should compare what it would
have cost him to purchase exactly the same funds, versus their value when incorrectly sold,
regardless of the fact that he chose to invest in a different way.
Ive thought very carefully about this. And for the reasons Ill set out, Im intending to reach a
slightly different opinion to our Investigator. My proposed method of redress will be different
too. It may result in a higher or lower amount of compensation than previously calculated.
So, Im giving Mr H and AJ Bell an opportunity to comment first.
My role here is to reach a fair and reasonable outcome that puts Mr H back in the position he
would have been in, or as close to that position as possible, had it not been for AJ Bells
mistake.
I agree with our Investigator to the extent that it was certainly Mr Hs intention at the outset to
complete an in specie transfer concerning all of the investments he held with A. But I dont
think its fair to say that didnt happen as a result of an error on AJ Bells part (Im satisfied
AJ Bells error related to something else). Rather, there were clearly various complications
and the time it would likely take to complete an in specie transfer was a factor for Mr H. So,
he instead instructed AJ Bell to make a partial cash transfer of £403,802.00, of which
£343,880 wasnt in drawdown and £59,922.00 was.
I think Mr Hs revised instructions to AJ Bell were clear about what he expected to happen.
And, had all things gone as per his instruction, Mr H should have expected to transfer this
amount in cash with the funds in his account remaining invested until such time as he
completed another instruction. Had things happened in the way Mr H expected, it seems
likely a total of £403,802.00 would have been in his AJ Bell account on or around 12 April
2022, if not sooner. Instead, Mr Hs portfolio was sold down in error. According to AJ Bells
calculations, £627,697.67 was disinvested in error between about 25 and 28 March 2022.
I do have to keep in mind though that once the funds were sold down and the cash value
credited to Mr Hs account, he decided to adopt a different investment strategy. Thats
relevant to the method of redress Im proposing.
I appreciate Mr Hs point that even if hed wanted to invest in exactly the same way, the
funds in his AJ Bell account wouldnt have been enough to enable him to buy exactly the
same investments again as their price had increased in value. But it seems likely that Mr H
could, at least, have invested in a similar way, even if not in exactly the same funds. That
might have reduced the extent of the investment losses hes potentially suffered now. Hes
also made the point that hed likely have reinvested the remaining funds straight away had
he known that the amount of compensation hed potentially receive would be affected. And
he thinks this is something that AJ Bell should have explained to him too. Again, whilst I
appreciate the point that Mr H makes, Im not persuaded AJ Bell ought to have told him that
hed need to reinvest immediately in order to secure a potentially greater amount of
compensation. That said, I can appreciate why Mr H is unhappy with the resolution AJ Belloffered, especially when it asked him what it would take to resolve his complaint.
The fact is though, for whatever the reason, Mr H did decide to do things differently. And that
included leaving some of the transferred fund disinvested for a period. So, I think the redress 
methodology I propose needs to reflect that. Thats because I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for AJ Bell to calculate a loss reflective of the whole amount disinvested in error 
when Mr H himself decided to leave some of those funds disinvested. In these specific 
circumstances, Im satisfied that its reasonable for AJ Bell to factor in the changing 
investment strategy when calculating the actual financial loss that Mr H is likely to have 
suffered. 
To put things right now, Im intending to say that its fair and reasonable for AJ Bell to:
Work out what Mr Hs (disinvested) funds would have been worth had they remained
invested between around 25 March 2022 when they were sold down in error and 12
April 2022 when the funds were credited to his account.
If the value of the funds would have been more on 12 April 2022 compared to what
they were worth when sold, thats the loss that Mr H likely suffered at that point in
time and is the compensation amount.
I think its reasonable to cap Mr Hs potential loss at 13 April 2022, as thats the point
at which he could have followed a similar investment strategy but chose not to.
However, if Mr H had the compensation amount (calculated as above) available to
him, it seems likely hed have invested that in some way. Whilst I cant say precisely
how he would have invested it, I think a reasonable approach would be for AJ Bell to
use a benchmark of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index to 
bring that loss up to the date of my final decision. This fairly takes account of the fact 
that Mr H would likely have taken some risk with his investment and represents the 
total compensation amount.
AJ Bell should if possible, pay the total compensation amount into Mr Hs pension plan. The
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
Im intending to say that AJ Bell should complete this calculation within 28 days of my final
decision being accepted, otherwise 8% simple interest should be added to the loss for any
days it takes in excess of 28 days.
AJ Bell should give Mr H a copy of its calculation in a clear and simple format.
I think the £250 compensation recommended by our Investigator fairly reflects the
inconvenience that this matter has clearly caused Mr H. So, Im also intending to say thats
the amount it should pay him if it hasnt already done so.Responses to my provisional decision
AJ Bell hasnt provided any further comments or information.
Mr H said the following:
He appreciated my thorough review of the case and accepted its conclusions with the 
exception of one point. The measure/proxy used to adjust the compensation amount 
for the period 12 April 2022 (when the funds were deposited to Mr Hs account) to 1 
June 2023 (the date of my provisional decision). Mr H said that the chart he was 
directed to showed a loss for that period when using the FTSE Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index. And whilst he thought it was hard to identify exactly what 
the loss would be, indications showed it was in the region of 2-3%. Mr H 
acknowledged that this was a measure commonly used to estimate losses in such 
situations, but didnt think it applied in his particular case because:
oIt factored in an allowance for government bonds (which had performed badly 
of late). Mr H said hed never knowingly invested in bonds.
oMr H provided a copy of his portfolio showing the way hed invested during 
the period in question, so he thought that was the best means of calculating 
how the stated compensation sum would have performed should it have been 
reinvested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, Ive taken careful account of the comments that Mr H made in response to my 
provisional decision. But, for the reasons Ill set out, Im not minded to change what I said in 
my provisional decision.
As Ive previously indicated, where I identify that a business such as AJ Bell has done 
something wrong, its my role to try to put the consumer back into the position they would 
have been in  or as close to that position as possible - had it not been for the business 
mistake. 
I note Mr Hs point that hed never knowingly invested in government bonds. I have no 
reason to doubt Mr H on that point. I think its probably also worth saying that when directing 
a method of calculating redress, in many cases were not able to say what precise 
investment choices an investor would have made at the time   and we cant simply look 
back with the benefit of hindsight. So, we consider that using a benchmark of investments 
reflective of the consumers attitude to risk represents a fair way overall of calculating the 
returns a consumer with that attitude to risk could likely achieve over the period in question.
Im grateful to Mr H for providing a portfolio valuation from AJ Bell for the period 12 April 
2022 to 1 June 2023 and I agree that it shows the actual investments he made during that 
time. Those investments happened over a period as opposed to all at once. And they 
werent for the whole amount that was disinvested. Thats relevant. 
I say that because regardless of what the portfolio valuation shows for the whole of the 
period in question, its simply not possible to say whether Mr H would have invested an 
additional sum (had it been available to him) in all of the same funds - whether in full or part. Or, given the staggered investments, when that would have happened. Its equally possible 
that hed have left some of the additional amount uninvested in cash. 
In these circumstances, taking account of the factors Ive referred to above, I think a fair and 
reasonable settlement to this specific complaint is for AJ Bell to calculate the financial loss 
Mr H may have suffered by using the benchmark I referred to in my provisional decision. 
Thats because it broadly reflects the way a person with a similar risk attitude to Mr H would 
have invested rather than it directly replicating some of the investment decisions Mr H made.
Putting things right
AJ Bell Asset Management Limited should now calculate redress in line with the steps set 
out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. AJ Bell Asset Management Limited now needs to take the steps Ive 
referred to above and as detailed in my provisional decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman