DRN-3890174
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Bank of Scotland plc stopped a payment he was trying to make from his 
account. He says this caused him embarrassment and led to a property transaction falling 
through.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr Y attempted to transfer funds from his account. He says that the 
payment was for a house purchase. Bank of Scotland stopped the payment so that security 
checks could be carried out. It asked Mr Y to attend the branch with his photo identification.
He visited the branch the next day and answered some questions about the payment. But 
Bank of Scotland didnt release the payment and referred the matter to the police. The police 
attended the branch but, by the time they got there, Mr Y had left. He says they visited him 
at home later that day. The police were happy with the information Mr Y provided about the 
transaction and Bank of Scotland subsequently lifted the block.
But Mr Y says that the house purchase fell through because of the delay in the funds being 
transferred. Hes unhappy with the way Bank of Scotland treated him and says he didnt 
have access to his funds for a few days. He complained to Bank of Scotland, but says it 
didnt log the complaint straight away, so he had to call again for this to happen.
When responding to the complaint, Bank of Scotland said it couldnt let the payment go 
through until it received confirmation from the police that they had spoken to Mr Y and were 
happy for the transaction to proceed. Bank of Scotland said it had followed the correct 
security procedures, so it didnt uphold that part of Mr Ys complaint.
But it agreed that there had been a short delay in logging Mr Ys complaint. Bank of Scotland 
apologised for this but said it hadnt affected the way the situation was handled. It sent Mr Y 
a cheque for £10 as an apology for the delay.
Mr Y wasnt happy with Bank of Scotlands response and brought the complaint to this 
service. Our Investigator didnt think Bank of Scotland had done anything wrong. But Mr Y 
didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. He says he was 
treated like a criminal and thinks the branch staff were discriminatory in the way they dealt 
with him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the starting point here is that its right for Bank of Scotland to have security measures 
and procedures in place to safeguard customers accounts and prevent fraud so far as 
possible. What I need to decide is whether they followed the procedures correctly and fairly.
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Ys account, there are several circumstances in which 
Bank of Scotland can refuse to make a payment from his account. These include if it needs 
to make additional security checks, if it wants to investigate further or speak to him, to 
protect him from fraud or if it thinks the payment has a high risk of being connected to a 
scam or fraud. I think it was reasonable for Bank of Scotland to make additional checks and 
investigate further here, and I find that it was entitled to stop the payment.
From the information available to me, I think the checks carried out by Bank of Scotland 
were reasonable. I understand that Mr Y is very unhappy that Bank of Scotland involved the 
police. But, in the circumstances, I think this was reasonable. The steps which Bank of 
Scotland took were in line with an industry-wide initiative which is intended to spot and try to 
prevent scams. 
Im satisfied that Bank of Scotland was following a standard procedure here and I think it 
was reasonable for it to do so. I dont think it treated Mr Y unfairly and I havent seen 
anything which makes me think it treated him differently from other customers.
I can understand that the experience was distressing and frustrating for Mr Y. Unfortunately, 
its in the nature of checks like this that they do sometimes cause customers inconvenience. 
But the checks are in place to protect customers and, in the circumstances here, I dont think 
Bank of Scotlands approach was unreasonable.
Mr Y says that the house purchase fell through because of the delay in the funds being 
transferred. I havent seen any information about this, so I cant conclude that the purchase 
fell through because of the security checks. 
Bank of Scotland has already sent Mr Y a cheque for £10 as an apology for the short delay 
in logging his complaint. I understand that the cheque hasnt been cashed yet. If Mr Y 
wishes to accept the offer, he should cash the cheque or contact Bank of Scotland directly if 
hes unable to do so. But I dont think Bank of Scotland acted unfairly here, so Im not going 
to ask it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman