DRN-2420009
The complaint
Mr B complains as a director of company Q, a limited company, that Santander UK Plc wont 
refund money lost from a business account, following a scam.
What happened
In June 2019 company Q fell victim to a scam.
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred as follows.
Mr B was looking to buy some quad bikes, in order to re-sell them. He saw an advert on an 
online trading website for a company that was selling some quad bikes. Mr B has told us he 
reviewed the sellers profile and they had a history of selling quad bikes at what appeared to 
be reasonable prices. Alongside this Mr B also saw the seller had a gold star badge for 
sales. 
Mr B began communications with the seller, but was told, due to shipping issues he couldnt 
just order one quad bike, but needed to order a minimum of four. Mr B agreed to increase 
his order and sent an initial payment, via online banking, to the account details, this was an 
international payment. Unknown to Mr B at the time he was dealing with fraudsters.
A few days later Mr B received a message from the fraudsters indicating there had been an 
error with the order, whereby an order for 12 quad bikes had been processed, rather than 
four. Mr B was told that due to the error, he would receive some of the quad bikes for free, 
but that he would need to send some further money in order to receive the order.
Mr B didnt receive any goods or tracking information, but over a period of four months 
received numerous requests for other payments. He was told the money was required for a 
number of things including to pay for customs, VAT and for a licence to have the quad bikes 
shipped, but Mr B has also told us he was pressured and pushed for extra payments, so that 
he could receive the goods, and told he wouldnt receive the goods if he didnt pay. 
Mr B has said the fraudsters were making excuse after excuse, for why the quad bikes 
hadnt been delivered. But Mr B has said he was in desperate need of the delivery, in order 
to keep his business going, so he continued to make the payments he was being asked to 
make. 
Ive set out below the payments company Q made to the fraudsters;
Date Transaction Amount
3/6/2019 International payment £3,267.21
4/6/2019 International payment £6,527.96
5/6/2019 International payment £1,464.85
11/6/2019 International payment £1,625.17
11/6/2019 International payment £3,250.34
13/6/2019 International payment £4,051.12
13/6/2019 International payment £1,539.42
17/6/2019 International payment £1,349.06
20/6/2019 International payment £1,060.63
24/6/2019 International payment £2,435.74
15/7/2019 International payment £821.72
14/8/2019 International payment £768.78
3/9/2019 International payment £338.61
Mr B continued to try and communicate with the fraudsters about the delivery of the quad 
bikes and about a refund.  But eventually the fraudsters stopped responding to his 
messages and calls, which is when he realised hed fallen victim to a scam.  Mr B reported 
the fraud to Santander at the beginning of January 2020, hes told us it took him a little while 
to report the scam, from the time of the last payment, as he was unsure of what steps to 
take.
On the same day Mr B reported the scam, Santander tried to recall the funds from the bank 
that the money had been sent to. However, Santander received a response to say that no 
funds remained to be recovered.
Mr B complained to Santander. Santander issued its final response on 19 March 2020. It 
didnt uphold company Qs complaint as it said they had made the payment and been 
provided with warnings. It said it tried to recover the money from the receiving bank, but no 
funds remained. It added that Mr B had mentioned a voluntary code that had been set up for 
fraud victims, but as this was an international payment it didnt fall under the categories 
considered. 
 
Company Q then brought the complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked 
into things. Our investigator didnt think Santander could have done anything to prevent the 
scam. She didnt consider the payments company Q made were particularly out of the 
ordinary, or so unusual that it should have raised Santanders suspicions. And she didnt 
think Santander missed an opportunity to identify the payment could potentially have been in 
relation to a scam. Our investigator also considered that Santander did what it could to try 
and recover the funds, once it was made aware of the scam. 
Our investigator thought Santander acted reasonably, but she recognised the emotional 
impact the fraud had caused, along with stress and inconvenience  and she asked 
Santander if it would consider paying £300 compensation.
Santander agreed with our investigators view. Mr B didnt consider our investigators view to 
be fair, in summary he said he didnt think Santander had taken steps to check the billers 
legitimacy, nor did it attempt to warn him about the fraudulent nature of the company. Mr B 
added that Santander didnt try to block the transactions, but if it had he would have thought 
twice about the legitimacy of the seller. Our investigator responded to the points Mr B raised, 
but explained it didnt change her position. Overall, she didnt think the payments Mr B had 
made ought to have caused Santander concern that the payments may have been at risk.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at thetime.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to company Q, and I can understand entirely why Mr B  
feels so strongly that this money should be returned to them. But having thought very 
carefully about Santanders actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the 
transfers to leave company Qs account. I also dont think it could have done any more than 
it did to try and recover the money. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. Mr B has raised a number of points which our investigator covered off in her 
responses. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. I hope 
company Q wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed things into what I see is the 
crux of this complaint.
In its complaint company Q has only referred to the payments I have listed earlier, so this is 
what I have considered in this decision. Im aware on 20 January 2020, company Q also 
raised some other payments with Santander that could potentially have been made as part 
of a scam, which were international payments made to a different payee. But as they havent 
formed part of company Qs original complaint, I have not considered those in my findings. 
Having considered everything, Im not going to uphold company Qs complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr B, and I dont underestimate the profound 
impact that this fraud has had on him and his company. But I dont think I can fairly and 
reasonably say Santander should reimburse company Q the money it has unfortunately lost 
to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story and taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Santander should fairly and reasonably: 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with company Q, when Mr B made transfers to a fraudster and when he reported the fraud, 
or whether it should have done more than it did.
In making the payments through company Qs online banking Im satisfied Mr B authorised 
the transactions. Because of this, Santander had an obligation to follow his instruction. But 
there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of 
good practice Santander shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions.
Santander has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But on 
balance, I cant fairly say that the transactions were so unusual or suspicious in comparison 
to company Qs normal account activity that it ought to have alerted Santander that company 
Q was at risk of financial harm. 
I say this as having reviewed the activity on company Qs account statements, from which 
the payments were made, for the eleven-month period leading up to the scam, I dont think 
the payments company Q made to the fraudster were particularly unusual or out of character 
in comparison to the normal account activity. There are several other transactions, including 
international payments, for larger amounts than company Q has paid to the fraudsters and, 
from what Ive seen the payments didnt clear an unusual amount off of the account balance, 
which can often be the case with scams. So the initial payment for £3,267.21 and the later 
payments simply dont look particularly unusual or out of character to me  they look much 
like company Qs typical account usage. As a result, I dont think Santander acted 
unreasonably in not making enquiries about the payments before processing them. There 
isnt enough here for me to think Santander should have suspected company Q might be 
about to fall victim to a fraud.
Ive thought about what Mr B has said about Santander not checking the billers legitimacy. 
In sending the payments to the account details Mr B provided, I cant fairly say that 
Santander didnt follow Mr B s instruction. I am not persuaded it should have done more to 
check the beneficiary name in the circumstances of this payment and there was no 
regulatory requirement for Santander to do so.
I understand Mr B has mentioned a voluntary code. I think what Mr B is referring to is The 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code). The CRM code was introduced on 28 May 
2019. The CRM code does not cover international payments, therefore, I cant take it into 
consideration when deciding this complaint. 
Ive gone on to think about whether Santander did what it shouldve done once Mr B 
reported to it that company Q had been the victim of a scam. Ive looked into the attempts 
Santander made to recover the money, once Mr B reported the scam. In order for me to be 
able to fairly ask Santander to refund the money to Mr B, I need to be satisfied that 
Santander should have acted sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont think it 
acted soon enough, I need to decide whether it made any difference.
In this case I can see Santander raised the claim against the receiving bank on the same 
day Mr B reported the scam to it. But the response from the receiving bank was that the 
money had already left the receiving account. So, Santander wasnt able to recover the 
money Mr B had paid the fraudster, because it had already been removed from the 
recipients account. From what Ive seen, Im persuaded Santander did what it should have 
and didnt miss an opportunity to recover any funds. I think the £300.00 our investigator asked Santander to consider paying and that Santander 
has agreed to pay is fair. The main cause of the distress and inconvenience here were the 
actions of the fraudsters who have tricked company Q into sending money. As Ive said 
above, I simply dont think Santander could reasonably have prevented this. So I do not hold 
it responsible for the distress and inconvenience due to the scam itself, and I dont require it 
to do more than our investigator has recommended here.
Its very unfortunate company Q has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated 
scam, and I understand the whole experience has been deeply upsetting for Mr B. But in the 
circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say Santander should have done more to prevent 
company Q from losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Santander 
to refund the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I dont uphold company Qs complaint 
against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask company Q to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman