DRN-2866723
The complaint
Mr T complained about his buildings insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited, as it declined a claim 
which was made to it after storm damage occurred at his home. 
What happened
Mr T called Ageas on 28 December 2020 and said water had come in through his bedroom 
ceiling on 26 December 2020. He said thered been a storm and he believed the roof, the 
ceiling, the carpet and some personal belongings were damaged. 
Ageas noted windspeeds not quite in line with its policy definition for storm winds, but sent 
an assessor to consider the damage. On 6 January 2021, the assessor, viewing the roof and 
taking photos from the ground, found no evidence of lifted or displaced tiles. Photos were 
taken of the ceiling too  paper was bubbling and it was felt this needed replacing. No 
damage to the walls was noticed. He didnt think the roof had been damaged by a storm. 
Ageas declined the claim.
Mr T was unhappy. He felt the storm had likely loosened tiles and this wouldnt be seen by 
photos. Mr T complained to us.
Our investigator noted Ageas policy wording regarding storm, which contains minimum 
windspeed and rainfall rates. He noted windspeeds at Mr Ts property at the time of the 
damage of 58 miles per hour which exceeded the policys minimum level, but rainfall rates 
that didnt meet it. He felt Ageas decline had been fair and reasonable given its policy 
wording and the weather conditions at the time of the loss. Mr T asked for an ombudsmans 
consideration.
I felt Ageas was responsible for the internal damage. But not for anything that had happened 
to the roof. I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
policy cover
Mr Ts policy, as I understand it, is for buildings only. It doesnt cover contents items. It also 
doesnt benefit from any extended accidental damage cover. So I need to consider whether 
a storm damaged the buildings, but I wont be able to look at Ageas liability for damage to 
Mr Ts carpet or personal belongings. 
was there a storm?
Ageas policy defines what it means by storm. This, in my view, largely reflects what this 
service has long held to constitute a storm. By which I mean that a storm usually involves 
winds of significant speed, but that rain, hail or snow alone, even without high winds, can 
cause damage and be considered a storm, where its excessive.
Here there were storm winds of 58 miles per hour. So that exceeds the speed specified by 
the Ageas policy (although I note Ageas weather data recorded lower speeds). And the 
winds were accompanied by heavy, although not excessive rain. So there was a storm and I 
just need to determine if the storm damaged the property. 
was the damage claimed for typical of storm damage?
Looking at this question quite broadly, loosened tiles and water ingress are both typical 
types of damage to properties seen following storms. 
was the storm the dominant cause of the damage claimed for?
In respect of the roof, I think Ageas has sufficiently satisfied me that there was no storm 
damage to the roof. Ageas expert assessed the property shortly after the storm occurred. 
He found no evidence of loosened, displaced or damaged tiles on the roof. I know Mr T is 
critical of the assessment having been done from the ground but that is quite standard; the 
photos taken dont suggest any damage and seem to comprehensively, and closely, show 
the roof area. Whilst Mr T has provided a report in respect of some damage which occurred 
a year earlier (and which was fixed), that doesnt say anything about the damage that was 
sustained in December 2020. I understand why Mr T might think Ageas should be liable for 
damage to his roof  but Ive seen nothing that makes me think its conclusion, that no storm 
damage is present, is wrong. As such, I dont intend to require Ageas to do anything in 
respect of the roof.
Regarding the internal buildings damage, Ageas hasnt shown me any good reason it isnt 
liable for this. Its assessor considered the room affected by the water ingress and took 
photos. He doesnt mention, or identify in the photos, any staining or any other sign that 
might suggest water had been getting in for some time, even when there wasnt a storm. It 
doesnt matter that Ive found its decision about the roof not being damaged by storm was 
fair and reasonable, because it seems that, internally, the property did sustain damage 
during the storm. Which means the storm, which was wind and rain, not just rain by itself, 
was the dominant cause of that internal damage. So, in my view, Ageas is liable under the 
policy for that storm damage.
Mr T says he has fixed the roof, so Ageas should now be able to repair the internal damage. 
But if its preferable to Ageas to settle in cash, or Mr T has completed the internal repairs 
already, then it will have to pay Mr T his cost for completing the work. If hes already paid for 
that, then Ageas will reasonably have to add interest to its settlement payment from the date 
Mr T incurred the cost until settlement is made. However, if the repairs havent been done 
yet and Ageas is prepared to do this work but Mr T asks for it to settle in cash instead, it will 
only have to pay him what it would have cost it to reinstate the property. Mr T should be 
aware that this might be substantially less than what he will be charged by contractors.
compensation
I dont intend to award anything in this respect. I can see that Mr T has been quite upset by 
Ageas decline of his claim. But, I think its fair to say he is most disappointed about Ageas 
not responding in respect of the roof damage. Further, whilst Ive found Ageas should have 
covered the internal damage, this couldnt be resolved unless or until the roof was fixed. And 
the internal damage was quite limited, affecting the ceiling paper. So, as Im satisfied Ageas 
decision in respect of the roof was fair and reasonable, in my view the upset Mr T has 
experienced has not resulted from any failure by it. 
Ageas said it accepted my provisional decision. Mr T said:
Plasterboard was stripped and replaced, as was insulation and coving, with plastering, 
wallpapering and painting being done.
This cost £900 for materials and labour.There was no proof of that cost.
He and his sons did the work.
The work was done twice because the roof repairs failed.
Having seen Mr Ts response to my provisional findings, I felt I needed to decide what 
amount Ageas should pay. I felt it was likely Mr T had repaired the property  but without 
proof of his costs it was difficult for me to know what had been paid or when in order to 
repair the damage which I had found Ageas was responsible for. I noted that Ageas had 
valued the necessary repairs when it had originally assessed the damage. The value given 
was £347.04, and Mr Ts policy excess was £100. I said Ageas should pay Mr T £247.04 to 
settle matters (with no interest to be added), to which it agreed.
Mr T was unhappy. He felt I should take his word as to his costs  not least as Ageas hadnt 
seen inside. He said he shouldnt be penalised just because he has no paperwork. Mr T 
explained that hed recently had a bereavement and the repairs shouldnt have been 
on-going. He felt it would only be right for me to make Ageas pay what hed said was the 
cost for repair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry for Mr Ts loss, and that this incident, complaint and decision have been on-going 
for him during this difficult and emotional time. But I remain of the view that Ageas didnt 
entirely fail Mr T in its handling of his claim  the external damage part of which Im satisfied 
it reasonably declined.
I understand Mr Ts frustration in respect of the costs Ive asked Ageas to pay. But when 
I make an insurer pay a claim amount, I cant reasonably make it pay any figure a 
complainant tells us was incurred. I have to consider whether there is reasonable proof that 
such a sum was spent by the policyholder, and spent in respect of the insured loss that I am 
saying the business is liable for. 
Here I note that Mr T and his sons did the work. In that instance then I think its unlikely Mr T 
would have had any cost for labour. Whilst Mr T tells us what that work entailed, he has no 
evidence to support that, or to show what price was paid for materials. It also isnt clear from 
what Mr T has said, if the £900 figure he has given is for doing the repairs once or twice. So 
Im not reasonably persuaded, just from what Mr T says, that Ageas is liable for £900 to fix 
the insured damage that resulted from the storm in December 2020.
Sometimes, in the absence of proof of outlay, I wont make an insurer pay anything at all. 
I didnt think it would be fair to do that here though. So I looked to see whether there was any 
clear evidence as to what the cost of repairing the damage from December 2020 might be. 
On this occasion, around ten days after the loss, Ageas assessor had priced up the work 
necessary for repair. From the report details Im satisfied that the assessor did view the 
internal damage. The costs derived are an initial assessment, and if Mr T had been able to 
prove to me that he spent more than this, Id likely have required Ageas to pay more. But, as 
it stands, in my view, the costs set out by Ageas in January 2021, are the most reliable 
indicator available as to the cost of repair of this damage. Putting things right
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr T £247.04 in settlement of his claim for internal 
storm damage (this sum is net of the £100 policy excess).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr T as set out 
above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman