DRN-2871176
The complaint
Mrs and Mr L complained about the way Santander UK Plc changed the terms and 
conditions of their bank accounts, and the consequences this had on them. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr L had Santander 123 packaged bank accounts (PBA). These incurred monthly 
fees (and had some other requirements on conduct of the account). Mrs and Mr L had 
savings accounts which were linked to the 123 accounts.
Santander announced it would change some of the benefits that came with the 123 
accounts. These changes included reducing the interest it would pay on balances. 
Mrs and Mr L said they were, however, unable to close the 123 accounts. This is because 
they understood this would mean theyd lose out on the interest payments on the linked 
savings accounts. Those accounts paid interest only every 12 months. They say they were 
held to ransom. 
Our adjudicator looked into the case, but thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
As theres no agreement, the case has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander is allowed to make changes to the terms and conditions of its bank accounts. Ive 
checked the wording, applicable to the 123 account when Mrs and Mr L started their 
accounts. And this does make clear Santander has this right. This is, in any case, standard 
with bank accounts everywhere. 
Its not in dispute that Santander gave Mrs and Mr L warning about the changes. The 
question is whether this warning was reasonable. Mrs and Mr L are saying it wasnt, 
because they say they had to have a 123 account to avoid losing the savings accounts 
interest benefits. So they were stuck paying for a reduced-value 123 account whilst they 
waited for their linked savings account to mature. 
But, in fact, Mrs and Mr L didnt have to have a 123 account to retain the benefits of the 
savings account. Santander has admitted that originally it did say this to Mrs and Mr L. But it 
later corrected this in its letter of 7 April 2020 (and possibly in an earlier letter  though its 
not clear to me whether Mrs and Mr L received that). This was before the benefit reductions 
came into force in May 2020. The letter said:
the requirement for the 123 / 123 Lite is part of the opening conditions for a 
Regular Monthly Saver. However, it has been confirmed customers who have a non 
123 account and a roll over monthly saver, will continue to be eligible for the account 
as long as the Terms & Conditions such as funding and balance requirements are 
met
So I think Santander did enough to tell Mrs and Mr L that they could change to a non-PBA 
and still retain their savings account benefits. 
I think Santander has responded to this matter reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs and Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman