The complaint 
Miss Js complaint is about a finance agreement she has with Secure Trust Bank plc 
(Secure Trust), trading as Moneyway. She says they didnt advise her they had problems 
with the vehicle ownership registration.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Miss J acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase
agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is
able to look into complaints about it.
Secure Trusts records show that they had the wrong telephone number for Miss J so
I think its likely their attempts to contact her by phone would have failed.
They do seem to have had the correct address for Miss J but Miss J says she didnt
receive the letter from them questioning ownership. On balance I think, on this
occasion, its likely she didnt receive correspondence. There appears to be no valid
reason why she would not disclose the car had been transferred into her name;
Im not persuaded that Secure Trust have provided sufficient compensation here. I
can imagine it would be distressing for Miss J to have collection agents attend her
property; especially when her children were at home. I can also imagine that their
arrival would cause some disruption to her and her familys day and it would clearly
have been upsetting to subsequently find shed been charged for the repossession.
Considering all the disruption this will have caused Im persuaded that compensation
of £200 is correct.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint. 
DRN-1628015My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Miss Js 
complaint Secure Trust Bank plc should increase their offer of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience to £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman