DRN-3891748
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) Ikano rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in 2018. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the supplier under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr S alleges that the supplier misled Mr S into believing 
that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr S, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. 
Ikano didnt agree. Ikano said the documents from the time of sale had made it clear that the 
benefits of the solar panel system would not cover the purchase price and therefore the 
system would not be immediately self-funding in the way Mr S says he was led to believe. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, I was asked to make a decision.
In my provisional decision of 16 December 2022, I set out why I was minded to not uphold 
the complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to 
make before I reached a final decision. Neither Ikano nor Mr S made any further comments. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr S could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr S, as 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Ikano.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, currently, I do not intend to uphold this 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Im satisfied that Mr S was provided with the sales documents and that he wouldve seen 
these at the time of sale, as he has signed the documents.
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out both the cash price of the solar panel 
system and the estimated year 1 benefit provided by the solar panel system on the one 
document. This includes both the estimated income form the Feed in Tariff (FIT) scheme 
and savings he can expect on his energy bills. 
From this section, I think its clear that the maximum estimated annual benefit for the first 
year was £433.69. 
Further down, the document also sets out the total cash price of the system which was 
£8,972 and noted that a deposit of £100 was to be paid. The box selecting finance was 
also ticked. So, I think Mr S was aware hed be paying the remaining amount, £8,872 using 
finance. 
This information is not hidden away in small print, but is, in my view clearly visible. And Mr S 
has signed directly beneath the section setting out the cost. This information is all contained 
within the suppliers own contract and I think its a good reflection of the likely discussions 
Mr S would have had with the supplier. So, I think its more likely that Mr S and the supplier 
discussed the estimated benefit, the cost of the system and his method of repayment  
which was finance. I dont think its likely that Mr S would have agreed to such a significant 
purchase, and agreed to take out finance to cover the balance of £8,872 without discussing 
at least some of the basic details about the proposed finance  such as the term of the loan. 
Mr S went on to take out a 10-year loan to repay the remaining amounts. I think its apparent 
that to repay a loan for £8,872 over 10 years - Mr S would need at least £887.20 annually to 
meet the repayments due under the loan. And given that I think its likely he was made 
aware that the maximum benefit he would receive for the first year was £443.69  I dont 
think I can reasonably find that he was led to believe the estimated benefit received from the 
system, would immediately cover the monthly finance payments. 
As explained above, Mr S took out finance to fund the purchase of the solar panel system, 
so he agreed to pay not only the cash price of the solar panels, but also interest on top of the 
amount borrowed. As it was clear the benefit provided by the system would not be sufficient 
to cover the cash price of the solar panels,  I think he would have known that the benefit 
provided by the system, would also not be sufficient to fund the monthly finance payments 
which included interest on top of the cost of the solar panels. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Ss testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Ive carefully reconsidered this complaint again but in the absence of any new points for me 
to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set out in my provisional 
decision. So, for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman