DRN-4072282
The complaint
Mr D complains that Close Brothers Limited set up his direct debit with the wrong bank 
account details, resulting in missed payment markers being applied to his credit file.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr D entered into a conditional sale agreement financed by Close 
Brothers, and set up a direct debit for his monthly payments. Unfortunately the call handler 
made a mistake and entered the wrong account details, which meant that the first payment 
was not collected. This resulted in a missed payment being recorded on Mr Ds credit file for 
October. Then the same thing happened again, resulting in a second missed payment 
marker.
Mr D complained to Close Brothers, who offered him £100. Being dissatisfied with that 
outcome, Mr D brought this complaint to our service. About a week later, Close Brothers 
upheld his complaint, apologised, and agreed to remove the missed payments from his 
credit file. It also paid him £250 for his inconvenience.
Our investigator thought that was a fair resolution to this complaint, but Mr D did not agree. 
(He said that a new missed payment marker had just appeared on his credit file; that matter 
is being dealt with as a separate complaint.) This case was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to apologise to both parties for how long it has taken for this case to be assigned 
to an ombudsman.
I agree with my colleague that £250 compensation and removing the missed payment 
markers for October and November 2022 from Mr Ds credit file is fair redress. I do not think 
that Close Brothers needs to do more than that.
(I dont know whether the third missed payment marker has anything to do with the errors 
which were made when setting up the direct debit, or if it is due to another reason, but as it is 
the subject of a separate complaint I have not considered it here.)
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman