DRN-3628225
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given by Pensions and Annuities Ltd (P&A) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss. Mr T also says that P&A should have treated him as an insistent 
customer. 
What happened
Mr T approached P&A in 2016 and made an enquiry about transferring his DB scheme 
benefits. I understand Mr T had already contacted his DB scheme provider and it had 
informed him that he needed to get advice before a transfer could go ahead. Mr T emailed 
P&A and said I have a 104k transfer value pension I need 26k tax free and income from the 
remainder but only have a couple of weeks to sort this out.
After gaining Mr Ts permission to collect some information about his pensions, P&A sent 
him a fact find document to look into his circumstances and objectives. Mr T completed this 
and returned it to P&A. This showed that his circumstances were as follows:
He was 56 years old, he was employed and earning £26,000 a year.
He was in the process of becoming divorced from his wife.
He and Mrs T owned a residence valued at £400,000, it had an outstanding 
mortgage of £164,000 with 15 years left to run.  
Mr T had a second property valued at £100,000 which was subject to a mortgage of 
£69,000.
He had no savings or investments.
From the pre-set options within the fact find, Mr T selected an attitude to risk of Cautious, 
and a short-term investment timeframe of under five years. He also said he might need 
access to his investments if he required significant amounts of money.
Following this, in August 2016. P&A produced a pension transfer report. This document 
showed that Mr Ts objectives were as follows:
Use the tax-free cash from a DB scheme transfer to help purchase a rental property 
for his wife for the 12 months after their divorce. And have access to both the tax-free 
cash and remaining pension value to fund the divorce.
Have single ownership of their main residence by buying his wife out using the 
pension proceeds. He intended to then rent this property to generate a monthly 
income.
Mr T felt he needed around £100,000 to fund all of this.
After considering his circumstances P&A concluded that whilst financially Mr T may lose out, 
overall, and given his broader circumstances, Mr T should transfer his DB scheme benefits. 
It said that: 
The transfer means that in terms of pension income you will be worse off. Whether you are
better off depends on the returns you get on the property, and whether you keep both
properties. However, human nature is your driving force, as this provides you with more 
money up front, which you feel would be better used to allow you to keep the houses. You 
do this on the basis that you accept it will not provide a sustainable lifetime income.
You are in effect gambling your pension on keeping the houses, and making more money 
out of them. Please of course consider that when this money is gone, you will still need to 
fund your retirement, and if you live a long time then you would have potentially been better 
off taking pension benefits as an income.
You understand that this approach offers you no guaranteed sustainability of income.
Instead it offers you the chance to have greater flexibility to use the money to secure the
property.
Mr T signed a declaration from P&A, that confirmed that (amongst other things) Mr T:
Had read the letter and report and other information provided and that it reflected his 
discussions with P&A and he wanted to continue to transfer on that basis. 
Understood that he was giving up an unreduced guaranteed income from the age of 
65, estimated to be £7,354, in exchange for a transfer value at the time of advice of 
£135,514. 
Had been advised to investigate the impact that taking his pension value would have 
on benefits and that he would have no future income from this pension. 
The transfer proceeded shortly after this and Mr T transferred around £135,000 to a third-
party SIPP. I understand he withdrew the majority of the funds over the subsequent two 
years. 
P&A didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said that the point of sale information was clear in that 
it informed Mr T that the transfer was risky and not financially viable. This was because  Mr T 
would get a lower retirement income because of the transfer itself and his property purchase 
plans may not work out. Whilst Mr T needed to act quickly to secure the transfer value, there 
wasnt a deadline from P&A. It also advised Mr T to seek legal advice in respect of his 
divorce. But it agreed that the transfer was the best alternative for Mr T, given his 
circumstances. 
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. An investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that Mr T was provided with a substantial amount of information about the transfer and 
he agreed with it at the time. It was explained that the transfer wasnt the best for his 
retirement planning. But given his need for capital to fund his divorce process and house 
purchase, and his lack of alternatives, it was reasonable that P&A advised him to transfer his 
DB scheme benefits. The advice was clearly given on the basis that his pension would be 
used up and he would need to fund his retirement using other means. It wasnt unreasonable 
for P&A to have done this here. 
Mr Ts representative disagreed, saying even though he had some adverse credit history the 
option of further borrowing should have been explored. This would have alleviated the need 
to transfer the DB scheme. The declaration that Mr T signed was not in his own words. This 
wouldve been best practice. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, P&A should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ts best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The critical yield required to match Mr Ts benefits at age 65 was 13.15% if he took a full 
pension. And at the time of the first analysis P&A said that the current transfer value of 
£104,244 would need to grow to £350,190 to achieve a £7,354 annual pension income from 
the age of 65.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.5% per year for 8 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year. So it seems there was little prospect of any transfer replicating the benefits 
of the DB scheme. 
But, as has been established, P&A gave advice on the basis that Mr Ts retirement income 
would be substantially reduced from this pension fund, or the pension fund would be fully 
used up to fund Mr and Mrs Ts divorce and Mr Ts property purchase. So, the critical yield 
analysis only confirms that P&A was right to say, essentially, that from a pension income 
planning point of view the transfer wasnt in Mr Ts best interests. 
The advice was given on the basis that Mr T would proceed anyway. This is because Mr Ts 
wider circumstances made it reasonable for him to potentially reduce his pension income in 
this way to meet his other aims. Ive gone on to consider if this was reasonable.  
Mr Ts plans and the information P&A provided about them
As Ive outlined above Mr and Mrs T were going through divorce proceedings. Mr T wanted 
to purchase their family home and rent it out. He had worked out that this would likely 
provide him with a greater overall benefit than his DB scheme would. He also needed some funds in the shorter term to fund his divorce. And he was effectively willing to give up his DB 
scheme benefits to gain these. 
Mr T had contacted his DB scheme to see if he could access his pension benefits in order to 
use them for this. His DB scheme had told him that he needed to get advice, which he did. 
So, this isnt a situation where Mr T was approaching P&A in order to gain some 
understanding and advice about his retirement planning. He had formulated a clear path as 
to what he wanted to do, and as this centred on his impending divorce, he wanted advice on 
how to best to implement this. 
As Ive said above, its reasonable to say that from the start P&A established that it might not 
be the best financially for Mr T to transfer his DB scheme. It also informed Mr T about this in 
clear terms numerous times. For example, in the report it said that from an actuarial point of 
view (mathematical point of view in terms of the benefits lost for the transfer value received), 
taking the transfer value makes little sense. What I mean by this, is that £104,244 would 
never provide the same level of benefits if you used it to buy an annuity, as is offered by the 
scheme at age 65. The transfer means that in terms of pension income you will be worse 
off. It also provided its view of the risk of the property purchase and rental. I think its fair to 
say that P&A provided reasonable information. 
It was documented that the risks of this course of action were fully discussed with Mr T. 
Some alternatives were also looked at, such as borrowing further but Mr T didnt want to 
proceed with these as, for example, he said that he had bad credit. I dont think it was 
reasonable to explore taking on further debt in the adverse credit mortgage market as Mr Ts 
representative has suggested. This type of financial arrangement can be expensive and take 
a long time to do. There was clearly some urgency on Mr Ts part and he had indicated he 
didnt want further debt. 
It was agreed that they only way that Mr T could meet his aims of keeping ownership of the 
family home, and realising the potential rental property benefits, would be for him to transfer 
his pension to the SIPP and use the fund. And whilst, of course, there are some potential 
risks with this course of action. I think P&A was acting reasonably when it took all this on 
board and gave Mr T advice on this basis. 
P&A didnt treat Mr T as an insistent customer. And I dont disagree with this, as it did give 
advice. But given what I have seen, I think if it had done so, then Mr T would have 
proceeded to make the DB scheme transfer and use the proceeds as he wanted to in any 
event. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman