DRN-3744694
The complaint
Mr C says the advice given and the arrangements made by Inter-UK Financial Services 
Limited (IUKFSL) to switch his group personal pensions with Aegon and Aviva into a 
Forthplus Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP), through Cornhill Management (London) 
Ltd (CML) and the resulting portfolio of investments, was unsuitable.
Mr C is represented by his financial adviser.
What happened
Mr C met with a representative of IUKFSL in late 2017 and a fact find was completed. His 
objectives were recorded in the following terms:
You have advised us that your main priority at this time is, you are looking to have your 
pensions investments managed and you would like to amalgamate your pensions.
You would like to take your tax free cash at 55 to allow you to put a deposit down on a 
property as you are paying £1,625 a month rent and this would free up some funds each 
month.
You are seeking to save for a retirement fund to provide for you and your family when you 
retire. You would like to achieve a monthly income in retirement in the region of £5,000. You 
intend to retire when you reach 55. 
You will be solely dependent on the pensions under review and on the state pension and 
you will need to have a regular pension in retirement. 
IUKFSL produced a suitability report for Mr C dated 28 November 2017. It recorded its 
recommendations in the following terms:
The outcome of my review is based on the information you provided in our Financial 
Planning Questionnaire, your identified needs and objectives, and your agreed attitude to 
risk. Taking all of this into account, my recommendation is that you transfer your existing 
pension benefits to a SIPP with Forthplus. This will allow you to access Aion Defensive Fund 
with Cornhill Management which I feel is the most suitable investment strategy based on 
your circumstances, attitude to risk, and objectives.
Mr C accepted IUKFSLs recommendations. On 16 January 2018 about £169,000 was 
switched from his Aegon pension into his Forthplus SIPP. And on 1 February 2018 around 
£13,000 from his Aviva pension was received. On 5 February 2018 £176,000 was moved to 
CML for investment. And on the same day £5,270 was paid to IUKFSL as adviser fees.
On 3 July 2021 Mr C complained to IUKFSL. He raised several concerns about what had 
happened to his pension arrangements in 2017. For example, one of his objectives had 
been to access tax-free cash when he reached 55, but some of his investments were locked 
in for a longer period. Hed been interested in lowering his costs, but these had increased as 
a result of its recommendations. He said he hadnt been told the investments were overseas, 
nor that it could only offer advice restricted to certain products/providers. He also said he 
was paying for ongoing advice but hadnt received any service.
IUKFSL appears to have failed to respond to Mr Cs complaint. Certainly neither he nor his 
adviser has received such. And there wasnt a final response included in the file it sent to 
this Service in August 2022 for review.
The Investigator issued his view on 1 September 2022. He upheld Mr Cs complaint. He had 
concerns about the advice IUKFSL provided, in particular in relation to matters such as costs 
of the new arrangement; the prospects for him to have been better off as a result of the 
transaction; and the suitability of the arrangements put in place given his knowledge and 
experience.
IUKFSL failed to respond to the Investigators findings and conclusions. 
As both parties didnt agree with the Investigators view, Mr Cs complaint was passed to me 
to review afresh and to provide a decision. This is the final stage of this Services 
involvement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Cs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by IUKFSL for Mr C. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G 
in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3 - which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of it s 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like IUKFSL. As such, 
I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business 
includes arranging (bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants or 
needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the switch?
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in Mr Cs best interests to make the 
advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made between his 
former pensions and the recommended new arrangement.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted 
four key issues it thought should be focussed on:
-Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive 
than their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good 
reason? This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a 
guaranteed annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs. For 
example, in April 2014 it issued an industry alert which said:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be 
held within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as 
it will not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Further, when considering the use of a discretionary fund management arrangement, the 
regulator has made clear that amongst other matters, firms need to take into account issues 
such as:
- Likely cost: do the overall costs justify the potential for improved performance?
- Size of funds under management: once a consumer has a moderately-sized fund, 
they may benefit from a model portfolio which is rebalanced automatically by a DFM 
ranging all the way up to bespoke arrangements for clients with larger funds.
- Investors knowledge and experience: FCA has said the adviser needed a 
reasonable belief that the investor could understand the nature of the risks of the underlying investments the DFM might make.
- Level of disclosure: whether the benefits vs cost of the arrangement were explained 
to the investor in terms they were likely to (or appeared to) understand.
The regulator was clear there was a positive obligation on the adviser to carry out research, 
rather than supplying the DFM with a risk rating and hoping all will be right in the end. 
They were recommending a DFM as a solution to their clients needs and that meant 
looking under the bonnet.
Did IUKFSL meet the regulatory obligations it was bound by when advising Mr C?
I dont think IUKFSL met the requirements placed on it in this case. Ill explain why.
There are several documents relating to IUKFSLs transaction with Mr C that are important 
to my consideration, these include the fact-find, risk appetite questionnaire and the 
suitability report.
IUKFSL recorded that Mr C was 51 at the time of the advice. He was married with two 
dependent children. He was employed in the construction industry. His net monthly income 
was said to be around £3,000 and his outgoings about £2800.
Mr C and his family were in rented accommodation. Notes recorded by the adviser indicate 
he had been a homeowner but had lost his home several years earlier due to the fraudulent 
activity of another party. He was said to have no investments, savings or assets. The only 
liability recorded was a modest commitment to a debt management plan.
In terms of pension provision, Mr C had two group personal pension plans, one with Aegon 
and one with Aviva. Together these had a transfer value of £ 182,000.
Mr Cs objectives were recorded as: wanting his pensions consolidated and managed; he 
was planning to take TFC at 55 so he could put a deposit on a home; and he was targeting 
a monthly income of £5,000 in retirement.
There are some basic problems with the information IUKFSL has provided. For example, I 
cant see evidence of modelling carried out which shows how the advice it gave Mr C in 
2017, came together to test his income requirements in retirement.
I cant see IUKFSL conducted a full comparison between his existing group personal 
pensions and the arrangement it was putting in place. And how this contributed to achieving 
his retirement objectives. I think such analysis wouldve been important to his being able to 
take an informed decision about what to do with his personal pensions.
IUKFSLs role wasnt simply to facilitate what Mr C was said to have wanted. Indeed, it 
must have been clear that his retirement income aspirations couldnt be delivered by his 
existing provision, and that this position wouldve worsened upon taking TFC from his 
funds. 
IUKFSLs role was to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr C about what was 
in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew about his circumstances and what was 
realistic. It knew pension pots built up over many years are to provide for a retirement 
income. 
So, these fundamental problems with IUKFSLs approach undermined the rationale for the 
switch of Mr Cs personal pensions.IUKFSL recommended Mr C switch his funds into a Forthplus SIPP, through CML to invest 
in a portfolio of assets that were said to be a match for his risk appetite. There are a 
number of serious specific weaknesses with its advice.
Charges
One of Mr Cs objectives was to reduce the cost of his pensions. His smaller Aviva pension 
levied charges of 0.8% of fund value per annum and his more significant Aegon plan 
carried charges of around 1.35% each year. 
The charges for Mr Cs new pension arrangements were set out in the suitability report. It 
cost £250 to set-up his SIPP and there were annual fees of 0.5% (capped at £400). CML 
charged a fee of around 0.4%. And the fund management costs could range up to 1.35% of 
fund value annually.
IUKFSL set out its own charges in the suitability report. The initial advice cost Mr C 3% of 
the value of his fund, around £5,200. Its ongoing advice service was charged at 1% of the 
value of his funds. Leaving aside he contends that hes never received the services he 
should have for the fees paid, taken together these costs were significant. 
So, the charges Mr C faced flowing from IUKFSLs recommendations were actually around 
1-2% higher than he incurred under his previous arrangements. That meant in order for the 
proposed switch to be in his best interest, his new CML portfolio needed a realistic prospect 
of outperforming his group pension plans  firstly to recoup the higher level of charges and 
then to deliver better returns to him.
I cant see that Mr C was informed by IUKFSL about how his group personal pensions had 
been invested, and the fit with his risk appetite. Theres nothing about the performance of 
his pensions over different time horizons. Further, Ive not seen that he was provided with 
information about the yield being targeted by CMLs portfolio. And it follows theres no 
effective comparison between the pensions.
In order to exceed the drag of increased costs and then provide an improved return on 
investment, there needed to be a reasonable prospect of significant performance 
improvement under the new arrangements. 
IUKFSL hasnt done enough to satisfy me there was a clear potential for Mr C to be better 
off, compared to his then existing group personal pensions, as a result of its 
recommendations, given the fees and charges he was incurring and the nature of the 
investment strategy it was recommending. Based on the information its provided, the basis 
for its advice for him to switch was flawed.
Risk
IUKFSL said the following of Mr Cs attitude to risk:
As we informed you during this discussion, based on the answers you gave on the risk 
profiler, from a possible outcome of between 1 (lowest risk) and 10 (highest risk) you 
scored 5. This means that your willingness to accept risk is medium 
While you are likely to be concerned with not getting as much back from your investments 
as you put in, you also probably want to make higher returns on your investments. Your 
preferred investments are likely to be a mix of lower- and medium-risk investments which 
may include cash, cash-type assets, bonds and UK commercial property, and higher-risk 
investments such as UK and overseas shares.You confirmed with our Client Liaison Team that this result accurately reflects your attitude 
to investment risk, although you may have a different attitude to risk when considering 
different priorities.
Accordingly IUKFSL recommended Mr C invest his money via CML and the Aion Defensive 
(65%) and Aion Adventurous (35%) funds. He signed a CML Investment Allocation form 
on 7 December 2017, although the copy its provided was blank in terms of the risk 
assignment and funds to be utilised.
On the face of it, IUKFSLs recommendations might appear reasonable, given the 
moderated risk assessment process it had been through. But there are a number of 
problems.
For example, Mr Cs representative has told us his money was in fact invested in three 
investments. In addition to the Aion funds, some of his pension was invested in a 5-year 
debenture issued by Audley Funding PLC sponsored by a company called My Club Betting 
Ltd. They say this investment was made without his knowledge or approval. 
Further, as the Investigator noted, Mr C was an inexperienced retail investor. He had no 
savings or other investments and his group personal pensions were his only provision for 
retirement. He had limited capacity for loss  as he himself made clear in his responses to 
IUKFSLs risk questionnaire.
Ive also got concerns about the parties IUKFSL was recommending to Mr C. It hasnt 
provided any information about the due diligence that was undertaken into the businesses it 
was working with.
We know that in April 2021, Audley Funding PLC announced the My Club Betting Ltd bond 
had been delisted. In October 2021, Forthplus Pensions Limited was put into 
administration. In December 2021, Mr Cs SIPP was transferred to iPensions Group. Based 
on information provided by his representative, the SIPP still exists but the Aion funds are 
suspended and in administration.
Of course, it might reasonably be argued some of these matters are reflections in hindsight. 
But the point is IUKFSL chose to recommend CML to Mr C to oversee his funds. It must 
have known it wasnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  I cant see he 
was made aware of such. In addition, it seems it recommended funds which had a limited 
track record and were listed on an unrecognised overseas stock market. 
IUKFSL didnt provide much information about the investments products and providers it 
was recommending in its Suitability Report. And given Mr Cs limited knowledge and 
experience of pension and investments I dont think he wouldve understood these matters 
of performance and regulatory oversight. So, these factors actually increased his risk 
exposure. So I dont think IUKFSL was treating him fairly or acting in his best interest.
Ongoing fund management
Mr C was said to have required management of his pension. The arrangement through 
CML was introduced by IUKFSL. There was a duty of care on it to make sure the firm it was 
recommending was appropriate for him. But its not clear to me he wouldve had a clear 
idea about the added value being provided by CML and IUKFSL respectively. Yet he was 
paying a lot of money for both services.
IUKFSL has failed to evidence the nature of the arrangement it had with CML. For example, 
how did it gain assurance its risk assessment for Mr C translated across to the system used by CML? What oversight did it have of where his funds ended up - why was he invested in 
a third fund which didnt feature in its suitability report? And how did it provide him with 
feedback about performance and any actions it recommended he take if things were going 
off track?
Mr C wasnt a sophisticated investor. His pension provision was modest. IUKFSL hasnt 
done enough to demonstrate the recommendations it made to him to establish a SIPP, 
through CML, investing in vehicles he had limited experience of, which also required its 
ongoing advice service, was suitable.
The arrangements IUKFSL put in place were over-engineered, complicated, somewhat 
untested, relatively expensive and it wasnt clear they were reasonably likely to be able to 
produce better returns than his personal pensions.
Overall, Ive concluded that IUKFSLs advice to Mr C in 2017 was unsuitable.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Cs case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been 
in now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I 
hold Inter-UK Financial Services Limited responsible for.
Mr C cant benefit from double recovery of losses and compensation in respect of 
substantively the same case. As such, if he accepts this decision, hell need to give an 
undertaking to assign any rights he has to take action against other parties and any 
associated redress, including from the FSCS, over to Inter-UK Financial Services Limited.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think fair compensation should be calculated 
as set out below. My decision is Inter-UK Financial Services Limited should pay Mr C the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Inter-UK Financial Services Limited pays Mr C the 
balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Inter-UK Financial Services 
Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr C can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. He may want to get independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this decision.
If Inter-UK Financial Services Limited had provided suitable advice, I dont think Mr C 
wouldve switched his group personal pensions into a SIPP. It follows that I dont think hed 
have taken on a CML investment portfolio.
So, Inter-UK Financial Services Limited needs to provide redress as follows.
1. Calculate a notional loss Mr C has suffered as a result of making the switch of his 
personal pensionsIn respect of Mr Cs former group personal pensions, IUKFSL will need to calculate a 
notional value for these, as though it hadnt been switched. It should use the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income total return index) as a benchmark. This is made up of a range of indices with 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. 
This is a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return. This doesnt mean Mr C wouldve invested his funds in some kind of index tracker. 
Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return he 
couldve obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
Inter-UK Financial Services Limited should then find the current (actual) value of his 
SIPP, including investments and any cash held. Concerning the valuation here  the 
approach to be taken is set out in step 2.
Im not aware if Mr C made further contributions to his SIPP. Nor whether hes taken any 
benefits from it. After confirming the detailed position, then the value IUKFSL obtains or the 
calculations it makes should assume these adjustments would still have occurred and on 
the same dates.
The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mr 
Cs former personal pensions and the current value of his SIPP will be his basic 
financial loss that IUKFSL needs to redress.
2.Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed
To close Mr Cs SIPP and avoid ongoing fees, the investments need to be crystallised.
If, at the date of settlement, any residual investment is illiquid (meaning it cant be readily 
sold on the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, 
the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. IUKFSL should 
take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance 
paid as above.
If Inter-UK Financial Services Limited is unable to purchase the residual investment the 
actual value should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. It may wish to 
require Mr C provides an undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from the 
investment in the future. This must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred 
on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. IUKFSL will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
Had Inter-UK Financial Services Limited done what it ought to have done then there 
wouldnt have been a SIPP. So, it wouldnt be fair if Mr C continued to have to pay SIPP 
fees because of illiquid holdings preventing it from being closed. Ideally, IUKFSL would 
take over any illiquid holdings, thus allowing the SIPP to be closed. But third parties are 
involved, and I cant tell them what to do.
So, to give certainty to all parties, if there are illiquid holdings and IUKFSL is unable to buy 
them from the SIPP, then its fair that it should pay Mr C an upfront lump sum equivalent to 
five years of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This gives a reasonable 
period to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.3. Pay an amount into Mr Cs pension pot so the value is increased by the loss 
calculated (resulting from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally 
adjusted for tax.
If compensation is paid into Mr Cs SIPP, payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief, so that he is in the same position as if hed stayed in his original 
personal pension scheme.
If paying compensation into Mr Cs SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and IUKFSL takes on his investments, then it should 
pay his compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to 
allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional deduction should be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected marginal rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. Neither party has disputed hes likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if he 
wouldve been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should only be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Inter-UK Financial Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which this Service informs it that Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this 
it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date 
of payment at 8% a year simple.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If IUKFSL considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it should tell Mr C how much has 
been taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Inter-UK Financial Services Limited should also pay Mr C £500 for the significant disruption 
to his retirement plans and the worry hes experienced.
Inter-UK Financial Services Limited should provide the details of the calculation to Mr C in a 
clear, simple format.
Further information
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by typing compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our 
website: www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint and I require Inter-UK Financial 
Services Limited to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman