DRN-3735592
The complaint
Miss B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund payments she says she didnt authorise.
What happened
Miss B says that in May and June 2022 fraudulent transactions totalling over £3,000 were 
made from her current account to various businesses in the United States. Miss B says she 
realised what had happened on 22 June 2022 and immediately contacted Monzo.
Monzo investigated and decided not to refund the disputed payments. It didnt agree that the 
first transaction was indicative of fraud. And it felt Miss B had been negligent regarding the 
rest of the payments as she had been logging into her account during the period they were 
being made but did not flag them with Monzo.
As Miss B didnt agree with Monzos decision, she asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she did not 
feel she could fairly find that Monzo had acted unfairly. 
Miss B disagreed, so she asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the Investigator previously set out. 
Monzo has commented that, for some of the payments in dispute here, it has declined to 
refund them because it feels Miss B acted with gross negligence. I dont agree that is 
relevant here. The payments in dispute are online payments, and so gross negligence is not 
a relevant consideration. The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, 
and broadly speaking Miss B is responsible for any payments that she has authorised (either 
by making them herself or allowing someone else to) and she isnt responsible for 
unauthorised payments. 
Im satisfied that Miss Bs genuine account details were used to make the disputed 
transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to 
enable Monzo to hold her liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that Miss B consented to the payments being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable to conclude that Miss B more likely than 
not consented to the transactions. 
I appreciate that Miss B has said she believes she may have either shared account 
information over the phone with a possible scammer, or that her emails may have been 
hacked. But the evidence Ive seen doesnt support that this is what happened here. No new 
devices were used to log into Miss Bs account over the period in question, no log in or 
contact details were changed, and the evidence shows that one of the payments made was 
authenticated using biometrics. 
The evidence also shows that the mobile app was used via Miss Bs device to view her 
account during the period of the disputed transactions. So its not clear how Miss B wouldnt 
have noticed the payments for several days when her account balance had been so 
significantly reduced. 
Miss B has said she didnt notice anything was wrong until her account balance went below 
£800, but given that she had paid £5,000 into her account during this period, and would have 
been aware that she had done limited spending, its not clear why she wouldnt have been 
concerned at an earlier stage. Even if the payments did not debit her account immediately, 
they would have shown as pending. And in any case, the very first payment on 27 May took 
Miss Bs account balance from £213.48 down to £32.80. Miss B logged into her account 
using the app multiple times that same day and again a few days later, its difficult to see 
how she couldnt have noticed that around 80% of the money in her account had gone.
I also note that the pattern of spending in the disputed transactions isnt what we would 
expect to see if Miss B had been the victim of a scam. The first and last payments were 
nearly a month apart and I cant see that any further payments were attempted once Miss B 
contacted Monzo. Thats not the kind of behaviour we would expect from a fraudster who 
would usually clear the entire balance of an account in as short a time as possible and who 
we wouldnt expect to know when a fraud had been reported.
So, taking everything into account, including all that Miss B has provided, the evidence does 
not suggest to me that a third party was responsible for these transactions. It follows that I 
consider it is more likely that Miss B either authorised the transactions herself or allowed 
them to be made. I realise that this is not the outcome Miss B was hoping for, and she will no 
doubt be disappointed by the decision Ive reached. But with all Ive seen I cannot fairly and 
reasonably require Monzo to take any further action in relation to this matter.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman