DRN-2949616
The complaint
Miss S, Mr S and Mrs S complain about how National Westminster Bank Plc handled a
request to withdraw a large sum of money from their joint account.
What happened
Miss S made a request in November 2020 to withdraw a large sum from a joint account.
When she visited a NatWest branch her request was declined as the branch said they
werent aware of the request. Miss S is upset as she feels she was declined before being
identified she doesnt believe the branch didnt have enough money to meet her request.
Miss S complained to NatWest and it apologised and paid £40 into the joint account.
She then called to rearrange the withdrawal at another NatWest branch. She was made
aware of the documentation she needed to provide, and that the manager would have the 
final decision on the withdrawal. She said her visit to the branch was upsetting and stressful 
as she faced many questions some of which she feels went beyond the managers power. 
She thinks the manager had no intention of giving her the money.
The branch manager called the police and asked them to attend the branch  which they did.
But they left once they were satisfied Miss S was who she claimed to be. The manager,
however, still refused to let Miss S have her money. She said she feels she was
treated in this manner as she is a black female.
Shes concerned by how she was treated by the manager and she felt intimidated and upset
by the police being called. She doesnt understand why other parties on the account needed
to be contacted. Shes not happy Mrs S was contacted by phone without any security checks
being completed and when the branch manager was walking home. She feels calling her
mother from the street is a breach of ethics and data protection. She also thinks the
manager abused his power. The whole incident made her feels an overwhelming sense of
panic and shame. She is concerned about the impact this had on her young son.
Miss S complained to NatWest again. It said it followed its correct procedure but offered
Miss S £300 as it felt the situation could have been handled better. It made a large sum of
cash available to Miss S the next day.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said there was no dispute
NatWest could have handled the situation better and it caused Miss S distress and
inconvenience, but she felt the compensation offered was fair.
Miss S feels that some of her complaint has been ignored and that the branch manager
intentionally declined her request above and beyond what was reasonable for the branch to
do. She feels the bank managers questions were prejudiced, defamatory and
disproportionate. She thinks as the banks terms and conditions permit one account holder to
make a withdrawal it was an infringement of her right as a customer for another account
holder to be contacted. She has provided a copy of the call to the other account holder. She
feels it was inappropriate for the call to be made to Mrs S as the branch manager walked
home. She thinks his tone and attitude on the call was particularly unhelpful and rude.
Mr provisional decision
As Miss S provided new evidence that hadnt been considered by the investigator, I issued a 
provisional decision to give the parties a chance to comment on my thoughts on the case. I 
said I was very sorry to hear how Miss S felt shame and panic as a result of her experience 
at the second NatWest branch and that she is worried about the impact on her son. I also 
said I was sorry she feels that the way she was treated was in part because of her race and 
sex.
Regarding what happened in the first branch I thought it was most likely that there was a 
breakdown in communication within NatWest and Miss Ss request didnt reach the branch 
staff. I thought the £40 compensation paid was fair.
Regarding what happened in the second branch I noted that Miss S had asked us to 
investigate the conduct of the branch manager which she thinks was unethical. I said it is not 
for this service to instigate disciplinary procedures or punish a bank for the actions of its 
staff.
I agreed with Miss S that she and the other account holders were entitled to withdraw money
from the account. But I said a bank is entitled to ask questions around transactions that it 
might see as potentially risky. I noted there were a number of features of the withdrawal 
Miss S wanted to make which made NatWest want to ask more questions about it: it was a 
large sum of cash; it was out of character for the history of the account; and the stated 
purpose for the withdrawal was to pay for things that  when paid for in cash  can be linked 
to scams.
Against this background I didnt think it was unreasonable for the bank to ask a lot of
questions in order to protect the account holders, particularly as there were multiple stated
purposes for the use of the cash which naturally meant there would be multiple lines of
questioning. I said I could see why Miss S thinks that NatWest asked too many questions, 
but in thinking about all the circumstances here impartially  I thought that asking a lot of the 
questions was just proportionate to what Miss S told them about the withdrawal and the 
concerns NatWest had around this.
I said when faced with a lot of questions to access their own money different customers will
respond differently. Some will think that the bank is acting in their own best interests and will
respond positively. Others will feel they are being personally challenged and will respond
negatively. How a customer responds can be influenced by a few things including the tone
used to raise the questions. A customers previous experience with the bank might also be a
factor. I noted that here we know that Miss S already felt let down by the bank because this 
was the second time, she had tried to make the withdrawal. Miss S said she wasnt happy with the bank managers tone. I said I didnt have a recording 
of the conversation at the branch. But  thanks to Miss S - I did have a recording of a call 
between the branch manager and Mrs S where Miss S was present and spoke. I said I 
couldnt hear all of what was being said in this call, but I could tell that the branch manager 
was showing signs of being exasperated and agitated. I thought the call showed both sides 
found communicating calmly challenging with people speaking over each other.
Miss S felt the branch manager asked questions or said things which were disproportionate 
and exceed expectations of what is fair and reasonable. Some of the examples she had 
given are:
Questions about why Mrs S didnt own the telephone number she had given as her 
number
Saying he was advised by a team in the bank that as there is a national lockdown, he 
should not issue any money in case Miss S was withdrawing money for pending 
travel on 18 November
Suggestions that Miss S was using the money for her own ends unbeknownst to 
Mrs S
Questions about Mrs Ss living arrangements.
I thought it was reasonable for the bank to ask quite a wide range of questions to try and 
understand more about the reasons behind the withdrawal here to ensure that Miss S wasnt 
putting herself at risk by making this.
I said that my impression from the accounts of the discussion between Miss S and the 
branch manager  and from hearing the call - was that there was something of a personality 
clash between the two, with both becoming entrenched. I noted, for example, that Miss S 
thought the bank managers comment about not being able to stop the rain was 
disrespectful. Mrs S didnt seem to find it disrespectful at the time and I thought it was 
intended as light-hearted.
Overall, I thought that the branch manager was trying to do his job and protect the banks
customers but that his exasperation and irritation with Miss S came out both in his tone and
the way he phrased his questions. I thought in the heat of the moment it was also likely his
questioning went beyond what was reasonable. In this context I thought it was fair that
compensation be paid for the distress and inconvenience this caused Miss S.
I noted that Miss S was also unhappy that Mrs S was called whilst the branch manager was 
in the street. She doesnt understand the purpose of the call as from her point of view the 
branch manager didnt seem to be looking to validate the request and the terms and 
conditions of the account allowed withdrawal by one account holder without the authorisation 
of another. 
I said I didnt think the branch manager should have called Mrs S from the street. Whilst I 
didnt think he said enough that anyone who was listening to his side of the conversation 
could have worked out it was Miss S, Mr S and Mrs Ss account I still thought it was an 
inappropriate conversation to be having in public. I thought the branch manager made the 
call because he was genuinely concerned to hear from Mrs S and thought he might be able 
to explain to her his concerns.Even though the account didnt require authorisation of withdrawals from more than one
account holder I didnt think the bank manager was wrong to speak to another account 
holder if he had concerns about the withdrawal. I noted the terms and conditions of the 
account dont require the bank to get consent to a withdrawal from all the account holders 
but there is nothing in the terms which prevents the bank from seeking to validate a 
withdrawal request by speaking to another account holder.
Miss S has asked why the account wasnt frozen and on-line access denied. I said I didnt 
know whether the bank considered doing this, but the absence of this happening didnt 
persuade me that bank did anything wrong. I noted Miss S regards this as an example of the
inconsistencies in what happened, and she thinks this is evidence that there was no genuine
concern about her identity, criminal activity or being coerced to make a withdrawal. Instead
she thinks the manager had a personally motivated intention to decline her request. 
I said I hadnt seen anything to suggest that the way the manager acted here was 
discriminatory to Miss S. Whilst I did think that the manager couldve dealt with things 
differently  I didnt think that happened because he was discriminating against her for some 
of the reasons Miss S has suggested. I thought that there was simply a difference of opinion 
and a clash of personalities which made things difficult and meant that things escalated.
I noted that NatWest had already paid £340. I said this is not an insubstantial amount of 
money. Miss S was clearly very upset by what happened, but I thought some of her distress 
 such as the number of police who came to the branch  was caused by things which are 
not NatWests fault. I also thought some of Miss Ss upset comes from things which as Id 
explained above, I thought the bank was entitled to do such as speaking to another account 
holder. So overall, I thought the compensation it had paid was fair. I therefore did not intend 
to uphold the complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
NatWest had no further comments to make.
Miss S disagreed with my provisional decision. She said that she feels NatWest has too 
much flexibility as an organisation to depart from the terms and conditions of the account 
here and not let her take actions that she is entitled to. Miss S also found my mention of a 
clash of personalities highly insulting. She says that the bank manager was unprofessional 
and judgemental. She feels this has been minimised consistently throughout this complaint 
and that his behaviour was intentional. She maintains that he overstepped his authority to 
say that her travel plans were illegal and that this was spiteful. She feels that £300 is nothing 
to compensate her for the experience she endured and that I havent appreciated the impact 
that being asked to return to the branch the next day wouldve had.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account all of Miss Ss comments in response to my decision. It remains clear 
how strongly she feels about what happened here. But I remain of the opinion that what I set 
out in my provisional decision is fair. Ive explained why below.
Miss S clearly feels that Ive misunderstood her entitlement to withdraw money here. It may 
help to clarify that in my provisional decision, I said I agree with Miss S that she and the 
other account holders were entitled to withdraw money from the account. But a bank is 
entitled to ask questions around transactions that it might see as potentially risky. So, its not that I feel that Miss S wasnt ultimately entitled to withdraw the money here. Its 
that, when looking at this situation impartially  I also have to consider that its fair for 
NatWest to ask further questions of customers when it has reasonable concerns about a 
transaction. Thats what happened here, so I think until the bank was satisfied regarding the 
answers to the questions it asked, it wasnt wrong not to hand over a substantial amount of 
cash. Indeed, had Miss S been a victim of a scam and the bank hadnt investigated further 
then I think she may have had a reasonable complaint against the bank. Thats not what was 
happening here fortunately, but I think it highlights why a bank may take actions like these in 
a customers best interests, even when it may be inconvenient for them.
I am sorry that Miss S found me saying that I thought there had been a clash of personalities 
between her and the bank manager insulting. I intended no insult. In my provisional decision 
I said I thought the situation had become heated and that the bank could have handled 
things better. I still think that. 
Miss S has said that the bank manager told her that he would not release funds to enable 
Mrs S to travel on 18 November 2020 because he had been advised by banking protocol 
that travelling was illegal. She wants me to ask the bank about this specifically. NatWest has 
told us that: Given the timing of this and the travel restrictions that the global pandemic were 
creating, the Branch Manager may have questioned how Mrs S was being allowed to travel, 
all of which would have been in an attempt to gain comfort around the reason why she was 
wanting all this cash. This seems reasonable to me. 
I think it would have been overstepping his authority if the bank manager had said he 
wouldnt release money because travelling was illegal. But as I said in provisional decision, I 
thought in the heat of the moment it was likely his questioning went beyond what was 
reasonable so I am not persuaded that even if he did say this it would change my mind in 
terms of what a fair outcome would be here. What Ive suggested as a fair outcome in my 
provisional decision is intended to compensate them for the impact this overall situation had 
on them  including the fact that the bank manager likely went beyond what was reasonable 
here in terms of his questioning.
So, I am sorry to hear of the difficulties Mrs S encountered when getting the money. I do, 
however, think the compensation the bank has already paid - a not insubstantial £340 - is 
fair and so I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S, Mrs S and 
Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman