DRN-3960861
The complaint
Mr A has complained to us that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
didnt allow a reduction in the mileage allowance during his hire agreement. He is also 
unhappy that when he returned the car MBFS charged him for damage.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr A leased a car using a hire agreement provided by MBFS over 36 
months. The monthly rental payments were £642.42.
When Mr A returned the car, it was inspected. Mr A received an invoice for damage. It set 
out the following:
Spare key incomplete £38.00
Cracked headlamp £400.44
Total £438.44
Mr A was unhappy with this and complained to MBFS. He told them that the damage to the 
lamp could hardly be seen, and overall the charges were not justified. He was also unhappy 
that, when he asked it to, MBFS declined to reduce the mileage allowance. He said that 
when he had leased cars from other companies in the past, they had always agreed to 
mileage reductions if needed.
MBFS sent its final response on 24th November 2022. It said, in summary, that the charges 
had been fairly applied. In relation to the key that had been returned, it said the blade was 
missing. And in relation to the headlamp it said that its commercial vehicle specialist 
confirmed the glass was cracked. As to the car being returned with lower mileage, MBFS 
said that it would still receive the amount originally quoted for the car, and therefore received 
no additional benefit. So it was unable to take the lower mileage into consideration.
Mr A remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service. He told us that it was 
unfair that MBFS refused to reduce the mileage allowance and because he had driven less 
than the mileage permitted under the agreement, the car was worth more to MBFS than if he 
had used the full mileage. He also told us that the damage charges were extortionate.
Our investigator issued an opinion. He said, in summary, that he didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. He had looked at the damage charges and thought they were applied 
fairly and in line with the hire agreement, and he said that MBFS was not obliged to reduce 
the costs due to the lower mileage. 
Mr A wasnt happy with this and told us the charge for repairing the headlamp was too high 
and therefore was unfair. Our investigator explained why he thought the charge was fair. 
Mr A remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A complains about a hire agreement. Entering into regulated consumer credit contracts 
such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr As complaint against 
MBFS.
Ive firstly considered whether MBFS could charge Mr A. Mr A agreed to terms and 
conditions which had a section headed Vehicle Return Standards. These stated:
If you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the vehicle in 
accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return Standards, you will 
have to pay our costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the 
consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle, as compensation
So, I think Mr A agreed to return the car in line with the Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) 
and agreed to pay MBFS if it wasnt. 
In considering Mr As complaint, Ive also taken into account the guidance on fair wear and 
tear from the British Vehicle and Rental Leasing Association (BVRLA). I believe MBFS are 
not members of the BVRLA, but Im satisfied this is a useful industry standard to assess 
damage.
Next Ive considered the headlamp and key for which MBFS charged Mr A. First of all, Ive 
looked at the charge for the key. The VRS stated the car must be returned:
Free from any broken or damaged items.
The BVRLA guidance doesnt specifically mention damage to keys. But it does give a 
general overview of the guidance:
Fair wear and tear should not be confused with damage, which occurs as a result of a 
specific event or series of events, such as an impact, inappropriate stowing of items, harsh 
treatment, negligent acts or omissions
I think in this instance it is reasonable to apply the above to the key.
Ive seen a photo of the key from when it was returned, and it was quite clearly damaged 
with a part missing. Im satisfied this didnt occur through fair wear and tear. So Im satisfied 
this falls outside of both the BVRLA guidance and the VRS. So, I think its fair for MBFS to 
have charged Mr A for this.
Next, Ive looked at the headlamp damage. The VRS states:
All lamps must be operational, holes or cracks in the glass or plastic covers of lamp units 
are not acceptable.
The BVRLA guidance states as follows:
Holes or cracks in the glass or plastic covers of lamp units are not acceptable.
Ive been provided with photos taken of the car when it was inspected. These clearly show 
the damage to the headlamp, which Im satisfied is a crack. Im satisfied this falls outside of 
the VRS and BVRLA guidance. So I think it is fair and reasonable for MBFS to have charged 
Mr A for it. Mr A has complained about the amount charged for this. MBFS have explained that the 
headlight would need to be replaced rather than repaired. I havent seen enough to 
persuade me this isnt correct. Given this, I dont think the amount charged is unreasonable.
Next Ive looked at what Mr A said about the mileage. What I need to consider is if Mr A was 
misled or given incorrect information about what would happen when he returned the car, or 
if MBFS acted unfairly.
The contract sets out a maximum mileage the car could cover without further charge. The 
contract doesnt include a term that Mr A would get anything back if the car was returned 
with a lower mileage. Mr A has told us that he had previous experience of hiring with other 
companies who allowed him to renegotiate the mileage limit. But significantly, in this case 
the hire agreement Mr A agreed to didnt provide for that. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest Mr A was misled, or that the terms of the agreement were misdescribed to him. 
So considering the evidence and information available, I dont think that MBFS has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in this complaint and I dont require MBFS to put anything right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Katrina Hyde
Ombudsman