DRN-3513439
The complaint
Miss T complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford Insurance) 
avoided her motor insurance policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay her 
claim. 
There are several parties and representatives of Watford Insurance involved throughout the 
complaint but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Watford Insurance.
What happened
Miss T took out a motor insurance policy with Watford Insurance through an online price 
comparison site.
When her car was stolen, she tried to make a claim on her insurance policy. 
Watford Insurance said shed answered the question it asked about the registered keeper 
and legal owner of the car incorrectly. And it considered this to be a reckless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid her policy, decline her claim and keep the 
premium shed already paid.
Miss T brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. They 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. But didnt think this was deliberate or 
reckless. They believed it was careless. They thought Watford Insurance was entitled to 
avoid Miss Ts policy and decline her claim but that it should return the premiums shed paid 
to her.
Watford Insurance doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. It said she had been advised clearly to input the correct information. The V5 
document clearly shows who is the registered keeper is and if she did not have this 
document, she should have requested a copy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Watford Insurance said Miss T failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she stated in her application, via an online price comparison site, 
that she was the registered owner of the car.
I saw that during the online application Miss T was asked the following question;
Are you or will you be the registered keeper and legal owner and she answered Yes. 
I saw there was an explanation that said; If you are unsure, the log-book will record the 
cars registered keeper, which is not necessarily the same as the legal owner. 
Consequently, Watford Insurance thought that Miss T should have checked these 
documents.
Miss Ts car was leased and therefore the leasing company was the owner of the car. So 
she should have answered No to this question.
 
Miss T said she unknowingly provided the wrong information as she honestly thought she 
was the registered keeper of the car. I think from what Ive seen that the questions about the 
cars ownership were clear and it was reasonable for Watford Insurance to say that Miss T 
had misrepresented her information.
For an insurer to avoid a policy, as Watford Insurance has here, the insurer must show that 
misrepresentation led it to offer cover that it wouldnt otherwise have done or at least on 
different terms, this is known as a qualifying misrepresentation. 
Watford Insurance has provided evidence of its underwriting criteria. This shows if Miss T 
had provided the correct information it wouldnt have offered cover in any capacity, as it does 
not offer cover for leased vehicles. 
This means Im satisfied Miss Ts misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Watford Insurance said Miss Ts misrepresentation was reckless because she had all the 
information available to her to answer the question about the registered keeper and owner of 
the car correctly. Or she could have obtained it prior to completing her application for 
insurance, which she did not do. 
I dont agree that Miss Ts misrepresentation was reckless because I accept that she did 
think she was the registered keeper. I understand Miss T could have checked the car log-
book if she was unsure, but as she honestly thought she was the registered keeper of the 
car, she was not unsure, and so thought she had no reason to check. It is Watford 
Insurances responsibility to prove there has been a reckless misrepresentation but I havent 
seen sufficient evidence to confirm this.  I think her misrepresentation was careless.
As Im satisfied Miss Ts misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Watford Insurance can take in accordance with CIDRA.
In this case as it would not have offered a policy it was entitled to avoid Miss Ts policy in 
accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  her policy never existed, Watford Insurance does not 
have to deal with her claim following the theft of her car. This includes her claim for belongings. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation 
cases, I think allowing Watford Insurance to rely on it to avoid Miss Ts policy produces the 
fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
As I think Miss Ts misrepresentation was careless, although Watford Insurance can avoid 
the policy, it should refund any premiums paid for the policy to Miss T. 
I understand Miss T will be very disappointed with this outcome as it will have been a 
stressful time for her and she has suffered a significant financial loss, but for the reasons 
outlined, I am unable to ask Watford Insurance to settle her claim.
Therefore, I partially uphold Miss Ts complaint and require Watford Insurance to refund any 
policy premiums paid. 
My final decision
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited must refund all premiums paid by Miss T for 
the avoided policy, plus 8 % simple interest. It must pay this within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Miss T accepts my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman