DRN-2425496
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with the administration of his mortgage with Barclays Bank PLC when he 
wanted to sell his home for less than the amount he owed. He has said this resulted in the 
loss of the buyer and the estate agent no longer being willing to work for him.
What happened
In 2008 Mr L arranged a mortgage with Barclays to purchase a buy-to-let property. The 
mortgage was for a little over £106,000 with a term of 18 years. 
In 2016 Mr L had had some difficulties with his tenants and arrears had built up on the 
mortgage. Barclays started the legal process to repossess the property. A suspended 
possession order was granted to Barclays. If Mr L maintained the contractual monthly 
payments and £100 toward the arrears, he was told the possession would not go ahead.
By late 2018 the property was no longer tenanted and Mr L was unable to make the 
mortgage payments. He decided to sell the property. He told Barclays about his plan in early 
January 2019. It asked for some information about his income and expenditure, evidence the 
property was on the market and permission to speak to the estate agent. At the same time, 
Mr L received an offer for the property and accepted it. He didnt tell Barclays about the offer 
when he first accepted it. 
On 25 February 2019 Mr Ls solicitors contacted Barclays for a redemption statement, which 
was sent the same day. The solicitors also asked Mr L to contact Barclays to discuss if it 
was willing to allow the sale rather than continue down the repossession route. The solicitors 
indicated it had told Barclays there was an offer on the property.
Mr L called Barclays the following day. He told it he had accepted an offer on the property 
and there was potentially a £12,000 shortfall. It said it needed a valuation done on the 
property and for Mr L to provide it with an income and expenditure document and his 
proposal for repaying the shortfall. It said it would then review the information and make a 
decision. Barclays has admitted that Mr L should have been asked more questions at this 
point and a sale at shortfall pack should have been sent to him.
On 3 March 2019 Mr L emailed the information Barclays asked him for. He told it he needed 
the sale to complete that month as his buyers mortgage offer would expire at the end of the 
month. 
Mr L discussed the situation with Barclays again on 14 March 2019. He informed it his buyer 
could pull out of the purchase if it wasnt agreed by the end of the month. He was told he 
should have got authorisation from Barclays before accepting the offer. The process for a 
shortfall sale was explained, and a shortfall pack was sent to him, for completion and return.
A week later when speaking to the complaints team, Mr L said he hadnt received the 
shortfall pack. He highlighted that the sale needed to complete before the end of the month. 
Another shortfall pack was sent to him four days later, by recorded delivery.
A further copy of the shortfall pack was emailed to Mr L on 27 March 2019. On the same day 
the estate agent contacted Mr Ls solicitor to tell it the sale had fallen through. This was 
documented as being because the buyer had made an offer on another property, which had 
been accepted.
Mr L told Barclays on 1 April 2019 that the sale of the property had fallen through. He also 
returned the completed shortfall pack the following day. When doing so he said the estate 
agent had refused to market the property until Barclays had guaranteed it could be sold.
Whilst Mr L had told Barclays the sale had fallen through, his solicitors were still chasing the 
approval for the shortfall sale as late as 12 April 2019. It also confirmed that it was 
concerned the buyer would pull out if permission was not granted quickly.
The valuation of the property was commissioned by Barclays on 4 April 2019. It received the 
valuation, assessed it and the information Mr L had sent it. It confirmed to Mr L on 
1 May 2019 that it would allow a shortfall sale in the region of the offer Mr L had received.  
Mr L complained to Barclays because he had been informed that, as legal action was 
underway, Barclays wouldnt allow him to sell the property without its permission. He had 
wanted the sale to go through before the end of March, as this was when his buyers 
mortgage offer expired, and Barclays hadnt facilitated that. 
Barclays considered the complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It explained the process that had to 
be gone through because the mortgage was with its litigation team. It didnt consider it had 
made an error and highlighted that Mr L hadnt agreed anything with the litigation team or 
completed the necessary paperwork before accepting the offer and moving forward with the 
sale.
Mr L wasnt happy with Barclays position and referred his complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint. Whilst he didnt think Barclays was responsible 
for the sale not completing, he found there had been some avoidable delay, which would 
have caused Mr L additional worry. He recommended Barclays pay Mr L £150 compensation 
in this regard. 
Mr L didnt accept the investigators view and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman, as is his right.
Barclays accepted the investigators recommendation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has said that he had difficulty contacting the relevant team at Barclays in order to 
discuss his account.  I can see there were times when Mr L was unable to speak to the 
litigation team when he wanted to. However, I can also see from Barclays records it tried to 
return Mr Ls calls, often on the same day, but wasnt always able to get an answer from him. 
I can understand Mr L found it frustrating at times to be unable to discuss his account when 
he wanted to, but when an account is at the stage Mr Ls was, it is usual for it to be dealt with 
by a specialist team. Such teams, by their very nature will be smaller, and so have less 
availability, than other more general customer service departments. I havent seen evidence 
that Barclays did anything wrong or behaved unreasonably in this regard.Although I acknowledge that Mr L recollects he told Barclays about the sale of the property 
and the short turnaround the buyer wanted at an early stage, the evidence I have seen 
doesnt support that. When he spoke to Barclays at the beginning of January 2019, he only 
told it that the property was up for sale. It wasnt until 26 February 2019 that Mr L informed 
Barclays that hed accepted an offer to buy the property. The fact the buyer wanted to 
complete by the end of March wasnt mentioned to Barclays until 3 March 2019. 
Given that Mr L wanted to sell the property for less than the amount he owed Barclays, it 
was always going to be involved in the decision of whether the offer being presented was a 
reasonable one. This would include ensuring the offer reflected the actual value of the 
property and so it was reasonable for Barclays to want the property professionally valued.  
Mr L only told Barclays about the offer, which wouldnt pay off the debt owed around five 
weeks before the buyer wanted the sale to complete. This was a very short timescale for 
Mr L to provide all the information he needed to, for a valuation to be done, Barclays to 
complete its assessment and for completion to happen.  
Barclays clearly caused some delay, but I am not persuaded that it was directly responsible 
for the sale falling through. The information Mr L was asked for, and which was needed 
before Barclays would order the valuation and proceed with its assessment, wasnt received 
by it until 3 March 2019. The buyer informed the estate agent around three weeks later that 
he had made an offer on another property, which had been accepted. This clearly shows the 
buyer had continued to look for alternative properties.  Overall. Im not persuaded that, even 
had the delay Barclays caused in the process not happened, the sale of the property would 
have completed. 
That said, whilst I dont think Barclays was responsible for the loss of the sale, Mr L was 
clearly frustrated at times with the process and the small amount of delay Barclays caused 
wouldnt have helped with that. I consider Barclays should compensate Mr L for the added 
worry and frustration it caused and the £150 our investigator recommended is an appropriate 
amount for this.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr L £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman