DRN-2640816
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited changed their terms and conditions 
(T&Cs) of his pension plan to allow them to deduct interest from cash balances if interest 
rates are negative.
What happened
Mr M holds a pension with Aviva. On 13 May 2020, Aviva sent him an email to inform him 
that as interest rates had fallen to very low levels (0.1% Bank of England base rate), they 
would change his T&Cs to clarify that interest for any money held in the cash account could 
also be zero or negative. They explained that if interest rates fell further some banks would 
charge Aviva for the cash account which they would then pass on deducting interest from 
cash funds. They said the changes would happen in 60 days. 
Mr M says allowing deductions from his cash balance removes a valuable guarantee which 
was always part of his policy. He held all his funds in cash in order to redeem a mortgage in 
December 2020 unless he could re-mortgage. The monetary value in this account was 
guaranteed apart from known charges. Its a fixed asset to meet a fixed liability. Allowing 
negative interest rates removes this protection and means theres no longer a safe place for 
his pension money.
Mr M thinks that a change of this nature is outside the scope of what Aviva are allowed to 
do. He also mentioned that the Bank of England could always set negative interest rates. 
This wasnt a new development. So Aviva should have included this when they set their 
T&CS before he took out his plan.  Mr M says it wasnt the intent to pass on negative interest 
rates to customers.
Aviva said it was a change to update the information within the T&Cs to accommodate for 
the eventuality that the interest rate provided by the banks which hold Mr Ms funds in his 
cash account provided a zero or negative percentage. If this happened then Aviva would 
change the way they administered the pension to reflect this change in interest rate. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and he thought Aviva were allowed to 
change their T&CS in the way they did. He also thought Aviva had treated Mr M fairly by 
giving him notice of the changes which would have allowed him to transfer to another 
provider.
Mr M disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M made detailed submissions which I considered in full.
The key issue for me to consider here is whether Avivas T&Cs allowed them to introduce 
the changes they did and whether they treated Mr M in a fair and reasonable manner.
Aviva said they made the changes in line with Section 24 of their terms at the time which 
said:
We may change these Terms and Conditions for any of the following reasons:
To reflect changes in the way We administer your Pension and to update information 
contained in these Terms and Conditions where such changes are reasonable and 
proportionate."
Even though Aviva said they were clarifying their terms, Im satisfied that they did make 
actual changes which allowed them to make deductions from cash accounts, something that 
wasnt covered by their previous terms which said under 6 (i):
The interest rate is variable. Interest will be credited to your account.
 
After the changes, the section reads: 
The interest rate is variable. Interest can also be zero or negative. A negative interest means 
that there is  a cost of depositing money with the banks.Interest will be credited to or 
deducted from (if negative rates apply) your cash account.
Mr M says the T&Cs allow Aviva to make changes to reflect the way they administer the 
pension. It doesnt allow them to make changes to the way they administer the scheme. He 
considers this term is about keeping information up to date and not about changing methods. 
He says Aviva cant make a change to the way they administer the scheme that is 
inconsistent with the T&Cs and then change the T&Cs to reflect that change-because they 
would have breached the terms in the first place. Mr M also thinks the changes to pass on 
negative interest rates to him amount to more than a change to Avivas administration 
because it changes his pension and may affect his benefit outcome.
I carefully considered whether Avivas changes were reasonably covered by the above- 
mentioned term in Section 24 and I think they were. I do understand where Mr M is coming 
from, however I disagree with him here. 
The term in Section 24 implies that Aviva are allowed to change the ways they administer 
their pension and can change the T&CSs to reflect these changes and inform customers 
about them. Mr M mentioned examples of changing how often statements were sent or the 
change from a form to an online form. I agree that all these changes would reasonably fall 
under this term and would be the more obvious ones which would come to mind. However, 
the question is whether deducting money from the cash account if negative interest apply is 
also part of administering the policy. And I think it is. 
I agree with Mr M that due to the lack of a legal definition its reasonable to look at the 
ordinary meaning of administer which as he says is to manage, execute or apply. The cash 
in Mr Ms account is held in one or more accounts with HSBC or any other account provider 
that Aviva might reasonably decide. Any cash is held in a pooled client account. Aviva is 
managing these accounts and distributing interest to individual clients. If the banks charge 
Aviva for these accounts rather than pay any interest, they need to manage-or in other 
words administer- the account(s) differently. So they need to make changes to the way they 
do this.Mr Ms argument here is that Aviva decided to make a provision to pass on negative interest 
rates and the way Aviva decided to administer this is to deduct interest from policyholders 
cash funds. So he says this is more than just the way a scheme is administered. However, I 
think Avivas decisions here are intrinsically linked. Aviva will need to change its 
administration if banks start to charge them for their cash account facilities and the way they 
have decided to do this is to pass this on to customers by deducting interest from their cash 
funds. In my view the decision to pass negative rates on to customers is still reasonably 
covered by the term changes in the way We administer.
I also dont think the fact that Mr Ms pension benefits might be affected by this means this is 
automatically more than a change to the way they administer the pension. To illustrate, a 
change in administration can increase costs. Section 18 in the T&Cs allows Aviva to 
introduce or vary charges to respond, in a proportionate manner, to changes in the costs 
which they reasonably incur in carrying out the administration of their customers pension. If 
Aviva had for example increased their annual management fee due to increased 
administration costs, this would have also affected Mr Ms pension benefits, but it still would 
be an administration issue that led to this. 
Overall, I think the T&Cs allowed Aviva to make the changes they did.
However, just because T&Cs allow a firm to do something, doesnt mean its necessarily fair 
or reasonable to do so. So I considered whether it was reasonable for Aviva to make these 
changes and whether they treated Mr M fairly.
I appreciate that negative interest rates were always a possibility, however with the Bank of 
England lowering its interest to 0.1% this more recently became an increased and real 
possibility and risk. So much, that at the beginning of this year the Bank of England told 
financial institutions to prepare for negative interest rates. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Aviva, even before being told to do so, to think about what they would do if 
interest rates fell further. If banks started charging them for the cash account facility, their 
costs would rise. I dont think its generally unreasonable to pass this on to customers who 
use cash accounts. Of course are different ways of doing this, but directly deducting it from 
the customers who hold cash seems fair to me. 
Mr M says his plan held a guarantee which has now been removed. However, I dont agree. 
His plan said interest would be credited to his cash fund and that this would be variable. This 
isnt the same as guaranteeing his cash fund might not reduce over time. Even with positive 
interest, rates have been low (0.05% at the moment) and given that all Mr Ms pension 
money in the plan is held in cash, charges will very likely outweigh any returns. So his capital 
would always reduce and as I said above, administrative charges could generally increase 
reducing his pension even more. So the capital guarantee Mr M talks about did not exist. I 
appreciate that he might consider holding his funds in cash a lot more secure than investing 
it. However, it doesnt guarantee capital protection.
I also have to bear in mind that the changes were made at a time were interest rates were 
still positive and they still are. Mr M was also given sufficient notice about the changes. He 
was and still is able to change providers if he wishes to do so and mitigate his situation. He 
hasnt lost out in any way up to this point. I also dont consider theres an unreasonable 
imbalance of power here which would mean Avivas decisions leave Mr M stuck in a 
unreasonable position with no other options available to him. He can have a similar 
arrangement, i.e. a pension holding his funds in cash, elsewhere and benefit from the same 
low risk investment.
Mr M points out that some other providers terms do not say theyll deduct from cash funds 
when negative interest apply. First of all, that doesnt mean Aviva cant decide to pass on negative interest through deductions. Secondly, its worth noting that negative interest 
doesnt apply at the minute and its unknown how other providers will react if this situation 
actually happens. 
In summary, Im satisfied Avivas terms allowed them to make the changes they did and that 
their actions were fair and reasonable in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman