DRN-2381254
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Connells Limited failed to tell them that they should cancel their 
existing mortgage cover when recommending a replacement policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took advice on remortgaging towards the end of 2017. They were advised on 
related mortgage protection by a Connells adviser. 
They met with the adviser on 27 October 2017 and he wrote to them shortly after with a 
statement of demands and needs. This explained his recommendation to protect their new 
£35,000, 10-year repayment mortgage  a decreasing term policy matching the terms of the 
mortgage, costing £44.64 per month.
But the statement went on to explain that Mr and Mrs G had decided to not to accept this 
recommendation because it was too expensive. So, an alternative policy was started  a 10-
year level term policy providing £15,000, costing £27.78 per month. The adviser warned that 
this wouldnt provide full cover for the mortgage.
In January 2020 Mrs G contacted Connells to say that shed just become aware that she and 
Mr G were unnecessarily paying for two policies. She said they hadnt been told by the 
adviser to cancel an existing policy that theyd had at the time of the 2017 advice. The 
existing policy had been set up in 2015 to cover their previous mortgage. She asked that 
Connells refund the costs paid to the 2015 policy from the date the new policy had started.
Connells considered the matter but concluded that the adviser had acted correctly, as the 
documentation completed at the time suggested that he hadnt been made aware of the 
existing policy. So, his recommendation was correct, and he couldnt be held responsible for 
any issues relating to other policies he hadnt been made aware of. 
Mr and Mrs G referred the matter to this service. In doing so, they provided documentation 
that showed that the adviser had in fact been aware of the existing policy  an email trail 
dated 26 October 2017, the day before the meeting, in which the adviser asked for details of 
the existing policy to which Mrs G responded with a copy of the policy schedule.
The investigator considered that the existing policy shouldve been noted in the statement of 
demand and needs, and the adviser shouldve made clear that it needed to be cancelled as 
it was being replaced. She also felt that the adviser shouldve been aware of the policy in 
any event as it had also been recommended by Connells only two years previously. She 
suggested that Connells refund the costs paid by Mr and Mrs G to the existing policy for the 
period since the replacement has been set up, plus interest.
Connells didnt accept the investigators view. It felt that as the existing policy had provided 
cover for £20,000 and Mr and Mrs G had decided to reduce the advisers recommendation of 
£35,000 of cover to £15,000, it seemed likely that there had been discussion of the existing 
policy. And that, as a result, a decision had been made to keep it and effectively top-up the 
cover to the required £35,000 with a new additional policy providing £15,000 of cover. So, as 
the existing policy had been part of this arrangement the adviser wouldve been correct to 
not advise its cancelation. Connells also confirmed that a system restriction wouldve meant 
that the 2017 adviser wouldnt have been able to view details of the 2015 recommendation. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view. She felt that it was unlikely that it had 
been the intention that the two policies be retained together to provide the required £35,000 
cover, not least because the term of the existing mortgage wouldnt have matched with the 
term of the new mortgage. 
But, in any event, there was nothing to suggest from the documentation that this had been 
the intention  as the existing policy wasnt mentioned  and there was no indication that Mr 
and Mrs G should not cancel the existing policy because it would form part of ongoing 
protection.
As Connells continued to disagree, the matters been referred to me to review
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Its certainly strange that the statement of demands and needs issued to Mr and Mrs G 
made no mention of the existing policy. The evidence Mrs G has provided clearly shows that 
the adviser was made aware of the policy, as he actively asked for details about it the day 
before the meeting, which Mr and Mrs G provided. 
I understand why Connells has suggested that it may have been the intention, either at the 
advisers suggestion or Mr and Mrs Gs, that the required £35,000 of cover be provided by 
supplementing the existing £20,000 policy with an additional £15,000 policy, as opposed to 
taking out a new £35,000 policy. Why else would the otherwise arbitrary figure of £15,000 
have been selected for the new policy? 
But the strategy of combining the two policies simply doesnt make sense. As noted, the 
2015 policy wouldve been for the wrong term, and the wrong amount, as the level of cover 
would already have decreased slightly. But, more importantly, the combined premiums of the 
two policies wouldve been greater than the premium for the correct recommendation. 
Ultimately, its difficult to say now what was actually intended to happen and why the adviser 
failed to note the existing policy in the fact find  particularly as he took very detailed notes of 
Mr and Mrs Gs employment live cover. At very least I think there shouldve been a reference 
to the existing cover and a note to say not to cancel it until the new cover was confirmed  
which is standard practice. That is, or course, dependent upon what was actually intended.
I accept it could be said that Mr and Mrs G had some responsibility for the situation arising. 
But what Mrs G has told us is quite compelling  that they assumed the new policy would 
replace the 2015 one, so there was no need to cancel, and that the two direct debits went 
unnoticed until 2017 as they were to same business and for very similar amounts.  
In summary, I think the failure of the adviser to properly document the advice and 
recommendation, which Connells has acknowledged was insufficient, was likely to have created confusion for Mr and Mrs G. And, on balance, I think the confusion more likely than 
not left them in a situation where they didnt cancel the 2015 policy, which they wouldve 
done if the advice had been clearer.
Putting things right
As the issue resulted in Mr and Mrs G paying premiums to the 2015 policy that they would 
otherwise not have done, Connells should pay to them an amount equivalent to each and 
every premium paid to the 2015 policy, from the date the new policy started to the date the 
2015 policy was cancelled. To each amount should be added interest at 8% simple, from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Connells 
Limited to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman