DRN-4329814
The complaint
Miss S complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with MotoNovo Finance Limited, who Ill call MotoNovo.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss S, but I dont think MotoNovo have been unreasonable to reject 
her claim. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss S acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the service history of the car, its age, and the mileage at the time the car was supplied to 
Miss S. The car here had a partial service history, was five years old, and had completed 
about 65,000 miles. 
The engine failed in this car after about 84,600 miles and after Miss S had been in 
possession of it for about a year and a half.
The expert Miss S commissioned has suggested that: 
This failure occurs from a progressive nature when the vehicle has not been serviced in
accordance with the manufacturers specification. If the engine oil and filter are not
replaced, at the correct intervals, the oil becomes contaminated and carbon black
particulate debris develops within the engine oil galleries.
The examiner is of the opinion that the failure to have the vehicle serviced correctly,
prior to the Claimant purchasing the vehicle, has resulted in the catastrophic engine
failure.
I dont think the car had been misrepresented to Miss S. There was no false statement of 
fact as the car was advertised as having documented service history. I accept that doesnt 
mean there was a full service history, only that there would be some documentation of 
services completed. In this case the car had missed two services between 2017 and 2019.
I think a reasonable person would therefore expect that problems the services were intended 
to prevent happening, such as the carbon build up the expert has identified and that the 
expert has suggested is the cause of the engine failure, would not have been averted. That 
doesnt mean the car was supplied in an unsatisfactory condition; it seems it was provided in 
a condition that was to be expected for a car that hadnt been adequately serviced. I dont 
think it would be fair to hold MotoNovo responsible for the failure.
The expert mechanic has, more recently commented:
by design, the crankshaft is compact and narrow, meaning it has weak points between 
the rod bearing journals and counterweights. So, this means the weak point in its 
construction are stressed due to poor maintenance.  (the manufacturers) have since 
upgraded these engines in the Generation Two vehicles to stop this failure from happening 
clearly confirming a manufacturing defect increased by the failure to correctly service the 
vehicles in accordance with the manufacturers recommendations.
Ive considered if that suggests there was a manufacturing fault with the car, but I think it 
would be unreasonable to suggest that was the case. I say that because its clear from the 
experts earlier detailed report that he believes the failure to have the vehicle serviced 
correctly, prior to the Claimant purchasing the vehicle, has resulted in the catastrophic 
engine failure. The fact that the manufacturer may have improved the engine, and its 
reliability, in subsequent models does not suggest to me that the earlier engines were of 
unsatisfactory quality; only that they were less resilient to not being serviced properly. 
I know my decision will be very disappointing for Miss S and I sympathise with the position 
that puts her in. Im afraid, however, that I dont think it would be fair to ask MotoNovo to take 
any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman