DRN-3475593
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L and Mr L are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined their 
travel insurance claim.
The policy is in joint names with Mr and Mrs L and their son, Mr L. Ill refer to Mr L only 
throughout the complaint as hes the lead complainant.  
What happened
Mr L has travel insurance alongside his bank current account which also provides cover for 
Mrs L and Mr L. The policy is underwritten by UKI.
Mr L booked a trip and their intended travel dates were from 3 July 2021 to 13 July 2021. 
Before they were due to depart, Mr L says he checked both the UKs Foreign, 
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) website and the Scottish government 
website. They decided they could not travel due to the advice that was in place  the 
Scottish government said travel was not permitted to the country and the UK government 
said while travel was permitted, travellers returning to the UK had to quarantine. Mr L said he 
also couldnt quarantine as it impacted his employment. 
They also tried to contact the flight provider via different channels and several times but 
without success. The flight did go ahead but Mr L and the family decided they couldnt travel. 
Mr L submitted a claim to UKI. It responded and declined the claim because while the policy 
provided cover if a policyholder cancelled their trip due to FCDO advising against travel in 
the 28 days prior to the departure date, there was no such advice in place. Mr L cancelled 
because he couldnt quarantine. UKI said the advice at the time of their travel permitted 
travel to that country but travellers returning to the UK had to quarantine as the country was 
on the amber list. It said similar advice was in place for Scotland.
Mr L brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. 
She thought the claim hadnt been declined unfairly or unreasonable by UKI. She said not 
wanting to quarantine wasnt a listed event that would provide cover under Mr Ls policy. The 
UKs FCDO advised travel was permitted to the country but upon return, travellers would 
have to quarantine. She explained there was no cover for the cancellation in the 
circumstances. 
Mr L disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Ls policy as this forms the basis of 
his travel insurance contract with UKI. Part 1 on page 19 of the document sets out the terms 
and conditions for when a trip is cancelled. This explains the cover that is available and the 
reasons for cancellation:
Reasons for cancellation
1. Death, illness or injury: the death, serious injury or illness of any insured person, your 
travelling companion, a close relative, a colleague or anyone outside your home area 
that you had planned to stay with.
2. Court cases and quarantine: any insured person, your travelling companion or 
anyone outside your home area that you had planned to stay with is quarantined, 
called for jury service or as a witness in a court and a court official has refused to 
postpone it.
3. Unemployment: any insured person or your travelling companion is made redundant, 
or have a self-employed contract terminated early by the other party after you 
opened your Nationwide FlexAccount, or booked your trip, whichever is later.
4. Armed forces and emergency services: as a member of the British Armed Forces or 
Emergency Services any insured person or travelling companion has authorised 
leave cancelled due to an unexpected emergency.
5. Fire, storm, flood or burglary: any insured person or your travelling companion has to 
stay at their home or their place of business in the UK as a result of it being seriously 
damaged by fire, storm, flood or burglary in the seven days before departure on your 
trip.
6. Pet emergency: your pet cat or dog needs emergency life-saving treatment in the 
seven days before departure on your trip.
7. Passport or visa: your passport or visa is stolen in the seven days before your 
departure on your trip and you cant arrange a replacement in time.
8. FCO travel advice All travel: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All 
travel to your destination.The advice must have come into force after you opened 
your Nationwide FlexAccount, or booked your trip whichever is later.
9. FCO travel advice All but essential travel: in the 28 days before your trip start date 
the Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All but essential travel to your 
destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened your XXXX 
FlexAccount, or booked your trip whichever is later.
10. Natural disaster: you are unable to use your pre-booked and pre-paid 
accommodation due to the immediately surrounding area being badly affected by a 
natural disaster.11. Vehicle accident or breakdown: your vehicle is involved in an accident or breaks 
down in the seven days before your trip and cant be repaired in time.
12. Pregnancy: any insured person or your travelling companion becomes aware that 
they are pregnant and are advised by a doctor not to travel as a direct result, or your 
transport operator confirms they would be travelling outside the conditions of 
carriage. The pregnancy must  have been confirmed after you opened your 
Nationwide FlexAccount, or booked your trip, whichever is later.
13. Vaccinations: any insured person or your travelling companion is advised by a doctor 
not to travel as they cant have the recommended vaccinations for the trip destination 
due to a medical condition. The medical condition must have been diagnosed after 
you opened your Nationwide FlexAccount, or booked your trip, whichever is later.
Based on the above, cancelling a trip because of the need to quarantine is not a listed event 
and therefore, Mr Ls claim isnt covered under his policy. The advice in place from the UK 
government was that travel was permitted to the country and that travellers were required to 
quarantine upon their return to the UK. The policy terms and conditions refer specifically to 
FCDO advice rather than Scottish government advice and this is what the circumstances are 
based on. And, indeed, the flight did go ahead. Mr and Mrs L and Mr L decided not to travel 
due to having to quarantine upon their return. I cant see that there was any advice in place 
not permitting travel to the country and the country was on the UK amber list meaning that 
travel was permitted under certain conditions. One of the conditions in this case was to 
quarantine upon return to the UK. There is no cover under the policy for cancelling a trip due 
to not wanting to quarantine and the circumstances Mr L and his family found themselves in. 
I appreciate Mr L was trying to do the right thing for himself and his family but unfortunately 
there is no cover for the cancellation of their trip under their policy.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that UKI hasnt declined Mr Ls claim unfairly or 
unreasonably. I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask 
UKI accept the claim. It follows that I dont require UKI to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs L and Mr Ls complaint against U K 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L, Mr L and Mr 
L to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman