DRN-3909423
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that AWP P&C SA (AWP) wrote off her boiler instead of repairing it under 
her home emergency policy. Shed like AWP to pay for her new boiler.
Ms Ms policy was underwritten by AWP, so Ill refer to this insurer throughout my decision. 
Any reference to actions taken includes those of AWPs representatives.
What happened
Ms Ms boiler broke so she claimed under her home emergency policy. AWPs engineer 
inspected the boiler and Ms M said he ordered a part there and then.
AWP contacted Ms M later that day to say it considered her boiler beyond economical repair 
(BER). She called AWP and it confirmed it would contribute £500 towards a new boiler in 
line with the policy.
After having her new boiler installed, Ms M applied for a Government interest-free loan. Her 
application was declined because shed already had the boiler fitted. 
Ms M complained to AWP, and over the next few weeks she sent several emails. Eventually, 
AWP replied to say that it had correctly declared the boiler BER, and it wouldnt be paying 
anything more towards it than the £500 stated in the policy. However, AWP offered Ms M 
£50 for its delay replying to her.
She didnt think AWP had done enough, so Ms M complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said AWPs engineer had issued a report 
stating what would be needed to repair the boiler, but AWP had made a decision to declare 
the boiler BER due to its age and fault. Our investigator thought AWP had handled the claim 
in line with the policy, so he didnt propose any further action.
Ms M didnt agree. She provided another copy of the engineers report and questioned how 
AWP couldve treated her fairly if it felt it necessary to apologise that its engineer said the 
boiler would be repaired. Ms M also provided a copy of a previous years report showing her 
boiler wasnt faulty.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
I wont comment on the details of the complaint, instead, Ill give the reasons for my decision 
and, where appropriate, explain what evidence Ive relied on to reach my decision.
Ms Ms boiler was broken which was why she claimed under her home emergency policy. 
Therefore, her previous years report saying her boiler was working carries little weight here.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that a part would be needed to repair the boiler, or 
that the part may have been available. Indeed, thats why Ms M is unhappy that AWP 
deemed it BER, leaving her to pay for a new boiler. I noted the parts of the policy that Ms M 
pointed out specifically. I also looked at the full policy wording, and noted the following 
definition:
Beyond economical repair
The point at which our tradesperson:
considers the cost of parts and labour to repair the boiler is greater than our 
estimated value of the boiler;
considers the boiler to be in poor condition;
is unable to obtain the required spare parts to complete the emergency repair 
within 28 days.
This tells me that even if AWP could source the part to fix the boiler, it may not have been 
economically appropriate. I see AWP explained to Ms M that the decision was made in part 
because of the boilers age, which was approaching 25 years. I also note that Ms M knew 
her boiler would need replacing in the not-too-distant future anyway. I think its important to 
focus on the fact that BER doesnt mean the boiler couldnt be repaired  instead it was just 
that it was no longer worthwhile doing. That position is set out in the policy.
In light of this evidence, Im satisfied that AWP handled the claim in line with the policy, and 
the evidence indicates that it was reasonable to declare the boiler BER.
AWP acknowledged that it didnt reply to Ms M as quickly as it shouldve done and offered 
£50 by way of apology. While the delay was avoidable, I havent seen anything to indicate 
that Ms M incurred any loss as a direct result. Therefore, Im satisfied that AWPs offer was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand Ms M is unhappy that she had to take out a loan and incur interest in order to 
replace her boiler. Im sorry to hear that she experienced distress and frustration because of 
that. However, AWP is not responsible for the cost of the new boiler, or how Ms M chose to 
fund that. AWPs limit of liability was to carry out an emergency repair where possible and 
appropriate or, as was the case here, contribute £500 towards a new boiler. I wont be 
asking AWP to contribute any more.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman