DRN-3926839
The complaint
Miss J complains that Brightside Insurance Services Limited (Brightside) unfairly cancelled 
her motor insurance policy and charged fees for doing so. 
What happened
Miss J completed an online application for motor insurance in July 2022. She was 
subsequently asked to provide licence information for both her and her named driver. This 
was in addition to proof of her no claims history. 
Miss J says she provided the information online apart from the licence information relating to 
the named driver. She says the licence had been sent off to the DVLA, so this information 
wasnt available. Miss J sent an email to Brightside prior to the deadline, explaining she 
couldnt provide the licence information for the named driver. She asked if this could be 
added later, or the named driver removed and added later. 
Brightside says it didnt receive Miss Js email and if it had an automatic response is 
provided that confirms a 48-hour response time. It says it requested the missing information 
on a number of occasions and confirmed the policy would be cancelled if this wasnt 
received. Brightside cancelled the policy when it didnt receive the information by the date it 
advised. 
Miss J complained and Brightside responded on 21 July 2022. It confirmed the policy was 
cancelled in line with its policy terms. This included fees for cancellation and time on cover.
Miss J didnt think this was fair and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint. He says the requested information wasnt provided and the 
cancellation and charges were in line with the policy terms. 
Miss J didnt think this was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Miss J but I 
will explain why it think my decision is fair. 
Brightside confirms that Miss J completed her online application on 3 July 2022. It says 
policy documentation was sent to her by email on the same day. Ive seen a copy of the 
welcome letter and the associated policy documents that were provided. On the front page it 
says Miss J should check the information and call Brightside if this isnt correct. It then says 
additional documentation is needed and should be added by Miss J to her online account 
before 10am on 17 July. 
The letter asks for an eight-digit check code that can be obtained online using a driving 
licence number, postcode, and the national insurance numbers for both Miss J and her 
named driver. It also provides details of how this can be done. The letter says that the details 
Miss J provided regarding her claims history dont match Brightsides records. It asks her to 
check the information and call it on the number specified if she would like to make a change. 
It also says that it will be in touch to obtain more details. 
Brightside says it sent a text message to Miss J on 4 July 2022, repeating its request that 
she provides the missing information by 10am on 17 July. It sent three further emails on 8, 
11 and 14 July as reminders of the outstanding information. Another text message was sent 
on 14 July that confirmed the policy was at risk of cancellation due to the outstanding 
information. Brightside says a phone number was provided in this text message for Miss J to 
call for further assistance. 
I note a further email was sent by the business to Miss J on 15 July 2022. She then added 
the missing licence information online but not for the named driver. A further email was sent 
later the same day reiterating the need for this information and warning of the pending policy 
cancellation. The policy then cancelled on 18 July and a refund of £362.25 was paid. 
Ive looked at the system records Brightside has provided, which supports the contact it says 
made with Miss J. 
Brightside says it didnt receive an email from Miss J on 16 July 2022 as she has claimed. It 
refers to its system records in this respect. From these records, I cant see an email having 
been received on this date. I also acknowledge its comments that a response is issued when 
an email is received advising of a 48-hour response time. 
Miss J has provided a copy of the email she sent on 16 July 2022 explaining that she 
couldnt provide the named drivers licence information. I dont doubt that she sent this email. 
But I must also consider Brightsides account that this wasnt received. 
Miss J says she didnt receive a response from Brightside to this email advising of a 48-hour 
response time. Again, I dont doubt this. But at the time Miss J sent this email it was getting 
very close to the deadline set by Brightside to cancel the policy. I think a reasonable course 
of action here would be to make contact by phone to ensure Brightside was aware of the 
difficulties she was having, and to prevent the policy from being cancelled. 
Brightside sent a number of messages that impressed the need for the validation information 
to be provided urgently. I cant see that Miss J was advised to contact Brightside by email, 
either from the welcome pack documents or the emails and text messages she received. I 
can see that she was asked to provide information via her online account or to make contact 
by phone. A contact number was provided for this. 
In these circumstances I think Miss J should reasonably have called Brightside and not 
relied on the email she sent to ensure her policy wasnt cancelled. Miss J confirms that she 
didnt receive a response or acknowledgement to this email - but I cant see that she made 
any further contact prior to the cancellation. 
I acknowledge Miss Js comments that she was also given a different deadline of 18 July 
2022. I can see that this was stated in one of the contacts she received. However, the 
cancellation didnt take place until after this later deadline expired. So, this didnt prejudice 
Miss J in providing the missing information, or in contacting Brightside to ensure it was 
aware she couldnt provide the named driver information in time.
Having considered all this, I dont think Brightside behaved unfairly when relying on its policy terms and cancelling the policy for the reasons it gave.
Ive looked at the terms of business information relating to the cancellation of Miss Js policy. 
This says in the event of cancellation, after the 14-day cooling off period, a cancellation fee 
of £60 is payable. This is in addition to a charge for time on cover, which is a charge raised 
by the insurer. Ive seen an email from the insurer that confirms the policy was on risk for 15 
days and it charged £55.46. 
The terms of business document also say the insurer will reclaim a portion of commission 
from Brightside in the event of cancellation outside of the cooling off period. It says 
Brightside will apply a fee equivalent to that amount and deduct it from any returned 
premium the insurer provides. The business says £25 is payable in this respect.  
Under Cancelling optional extras the terms explain that there is no refund if a breakdown 
service is cancelled after the 14-day cooling off period. This means that the policy terms 
allow for a payment of £39.99 to be taken from the premium refund provided by Miss Js 
insurer. 
Miss J requested further information on how her insurer calculated the time on risk charge. 
The terms of business document say the insurer will charge for time on cover and return any 
unused premium. The insurer will apply either a pro rata fee or use, a higher rates for short 
periods cover. The terms of business document also say a table of charges or short-term 
cancellation rates will be shown in your policy schedule/policy wording, if applicable. 
I can see the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) Miss J was sent  tells her the 
insurer will refund the exact number of days left on her policy less a fee of £32 plus 
insurance premium tax, if she cancels outside of 14-days from inception. The insurer 
charged a fee of £55.46 in total. Based on the figures I have seen this amount falls in line 
with the policy terms. 
Brightside says as it administers insurance on behalf of a wide range of insurers, all have 
different criteria, so it refers customers to the insurers documents with respect to its 
charges. Based on what Ive read I think the charges at cancellation were explained in the 
information provided by Brightside  with the appropriate reference to the insurers 
documents. 
In summary I dont think Brightside treated Miss J unfairly when cancelling her policy and in 
providing the premium refund it did. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman