DRN-3248811
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined a claim made on 
their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
For many years, Mr and Mrs L had the benefit of a travel insurance policy linked to a bank 
account, which was underwritten by IPA (the policy). 
Under the policy theyre required to make medical disclosures in certain circumstances and 
at particular times  such as before booking a holiday, if their health had changed and they 
wanted the medical conditions that had developed covered under the policy.
Mr and Mrs L travelled abroad in early February 2020.
Whilst away, Mr L required medical attention, and was admitted to hospital. The final medical 
report dated 25 February 2020 reflects that Mr L had experienced chest 
discomfort/tightness, nausea, dizziness, headache, weakness, right hand pain and tingling. 
Mr and Mrs L contacted IPA for assistance and subsequently made a claim on the policy to 
cover the hospital / medical costs. That claim was ultimately declined by IPA as it concluded 
that the treatment Mr L required was connected to a pre-existing medical condition. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs L complained to our Service. Our investigator concluded that IPA had 
acted fairly and reasonably by declining the claim so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs 
L disagreed and made various points in reply. Their complaint has now been passed to me 
to look at everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. I know Mr and Mrs L will be very disappointed, but I dont 
think IPA has unfairly declined the claim. Ill explain why. 
IPA has a duty to handle claims made on the policy promptly and fairly. And it mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim. 
The policy says no claim arising directly or indirectly from a pre-existing medical condition 
affecting any person travelling under the policy will be covered unless all pre-existing 
medical conditions have been declared to the medical assistance helpline. 
Pre-existing medical condition is defined as:
1. Any past or current medical condition that has given rise to symptoms or for which 
any form of treatment or prescribed medication, medical consultation, investigation or 
follow-up/check-up has been required or received during the two years prior to: 
a) opening yourcurrent account, 
b) booking any trip, or 
c) upon the annual renewal of your medical health declaration, whichever is the 
later, and 
2. Any cardiovascular or circulatory condition (e.g. heart condition, high blood 
pressure, blood clots, raised cholesterol, stroke, aneurysm) that has occurred at 
any time prior to any trip. 
If you are aware of any pre-existing medical condition(s) these must be declared to 
The  Medical Assessment Helpline on . and accepted for cover.
Im not a medical expert so Ive relied on the medical evidence when considering whether 
IPA has acted fairly and reasonably by declining Mr Ls claim on the basis the treatment he 
received whilst abroad was for a pre-existing medical condition. 
IPA obtained Mr Ls medical history from his GP. Theres an entry showing that hed 
experienced chest pain in October 2018. He was seen in a hospitals Accidental and 
Emergency department. Thats within two years of booking the trip abroad he and Mrs L took 
in February 2020. So, under the terms of the policy, if he wanted anything connected to this 
condition covered under the policy, he ought to have made a medical declaration.
Theres also reference in the GP notes to Hypertensive disease in October 2015, Ischaemic 
heart disease in January 2003, Acute Myocardial Infarction in July 1997 and Myocardial 
Infarction in June 1997. 
Under the policy, Mr L ought to have made a medical declaration in respect of any 
cardiovascular or circulatory condition (e.g. heart condition, high blood pressure, blood clots, 
raised cholesterol, stroke, aneurysm) that had occurred at any time prior to any trip as these 
are considered to be pre-existing medical conditions. 
IPA has considered these conditions to be indirectly related to the cause of the treatment Mr 
L received whilst abroad.
The medical report dated 25 February 2020 reflects that Mr L was examined urgently at the 
medical centre on 22 February 2020 (whilst on holiday) because of a chest 
discomfort/tightness, nausea, dizziness, headache and weakness feels unwell the last 
hourscomplained of right hand pain and tingling.
It goes on to say: after the clinical examination at our medical centre the patient was 
transferred and admitted to the clinic for further investigations and treatment.
On the night of admission theres reference to Mr L feeling discomfort in his chest, having a 
headache and feeling dizzy. And that on 24 February 2020, a cardiologist consultation was 
arranged. The cardiologist carried out an echocardiography and ECG. Its reflected that 
the results would be sent to Mr L. He was discharged the next day and a fit to fly certificate 
was issued on 28 February 2020.
As such, Im satisfied that IPA hasnt unfairly linked these medical issues together and nor 
has it unreasonably concluded that the treatment he needed whilst abroad was for a medical condition that was pre-existing, as defined by the policy. So, I dont think IPA has 
unreasonably relied on the policy terms to decline the claim. 
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that IPA says it wouldve covered Mr Ls 
pre-existing medical condition had he disclosed it prior to booking the holiday for an 
additional premium of around £50. So, Ive also thought about whether it would be fair and 
reasonable for IPA to cover the claim less the additional premium he wouldve paid, or to 
make a proportionate settlement of his claim. 
Whilst it might be fair and reasonable for an insurer to do that in some cases, Im not 
persuaded that it would be here. If I were to direct IPA to pay part of the claim, it would follow 
that IPA was effectively on risk for covering a claim relating to Mr Ls pre-existing medical 
condition even though he hadnt told IPA anything about it before booking the holiday by 
making a medical declaration. And if he wanted pre-existing medical conditions covered, he 
ought to have done. 
When making this finding, Ive taken on board all of Mr Ls other comments including what 
he says about not receiving any correspondence from IPA about making a health declaration 
or being directed to do so when enquiring about whether it was possible to extend the 
maximum trip duration under the policy above 45 days.
IPA has sent us template letters dated January 2019 and January 2020 which it says 
wouldve been sent to Mr and Mrs L. And these letters remind customers of the 
circumstances when they may need to make a medical declaration under the policy 
otherwise, they couldnt have cover for pre-existing medical conditions. I dont know for sure 
whether these letters wouldve been sent to Mr and Mrs L. But even if Mr and Mrs L didnt 
receive them, I think the policy sets out when they should make a medical declaration.
Further, even though Mr L says he wasnt put through to the medical assessment helpline 
when enquiring about purchasing a trip duration extension to the policy, I dont think there 
was any requirement for that to happen. He hadnt called to make a medical declaration. And 
further, the policy sets out how to make a medical declaration and the number to call. 
Mr L has also said that if hed known he wasnt covered under the policy, he wouldve 
ensured he was taken to a public hospital when abroad, not a private hospital. However, I 
dont think I can reasonably hold IPA responsible for that. It hadnt given Mr L any 
assurances that his claim would be covered prior to being admitted to the hospital whilst 
abroad. 
Mr L also says that there are inaccuracies in the final medical report from the hospital which 
treated him whilst abroad. He says some of the reported symptoms arent true. However, I 
dont think IPA has acted unreasonably by relying on the medical report as being an 
accurate reflection of the symptoms upon admission and whilst he was in the hospitals care.  
Mr L also says that he experiences indigestion from time to time. However, based on his 
medical history and the medical report obtained whilst he was abroad, I dont think IPA has 
unfairly linked his pre-existing chest pain and heart conditions with the chest discomfort and 
other symptoms he experienced whilst abroad  which he was treated for.
Mr L has also raised concerns about the bank who sold the policy (as part of a packaged 
bank account). I havent considered those concerns as part of the complaint against IPA as 
IPA didnt sell the policy. However, hes free to raise a complaint to the bank about the sale 
of the policy if he so wishes. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman