DRN-3901445
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Ageas Insurance Limited declined her claim for replacement of a 
damaged lock on her front door.   
  
What happened
Mrs S held a buildings insurance policy with Ageas. 
On 10 July 2022 Mrs S noticed that the lock on her front door was broken. Her husband Mr 
S rang Ageas and tried to make a claim under the policy. The call handler advised Mr S that 
a claim couldnt be made as broken locks werent covered under the policy. 
Mrs S then called Ageas herself and advised them that the lock had been broken as a result 
of an attempted break in. 
The new call handler advised Mrs S that they would need to see some evidence from the 
locksmith to support that the damage had occurred as a result of a break in.  
Mrs S had her lock repaired, and then sent in the invoice to Ageas.
 
Ageas declined the claim as they said that there had been inaccurate information provided 
and so Mrs S complained to Ageas. 
Ageas responded to the complaint in November 2022 saying that the claim had been 
rejected as they considered that the damage was caused by wear and tear. 
Mrs S was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Ss complaint, and he thought that Ageas had 
acted fairly in declining the claim. 
 
Mrs S didnt agree with this, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all of Ageas claim notes, listened to the calls that Mr and Mrs S had with 
Ageas, and taken into account the testimony of Mrs S. However,  Im not upholding this 
complaint, and I will explain why.  
I have to consider whether in declining the claim, Ageas have acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and have done so fairly. 
In the first call to Ageas on 12 July, Mr S tells Ageas that the locking mechanism in the front 
door was damaged and it had first been noticed on 10 July. He was asked twice during the 
conversation if anything had caused the damage, and he said that it had just gone haywire. 
There was no mention of an attempted break in. On the basis of that information, the call 
handler advises that she has reviewed the policy wording and Ageas wouldnt be able to 
cover the cost of the repair as it wasnt as a result of a lost or stolen key or damaged in 
accordance with the policy terms. She advised that Home Emergency might be able to help. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy and the section covering replacement 
locks is at page 25. It says:
Well pay for 
Replacing and installing locks on outside doors if your keys are stolen or lost outside 
your home
Replacing and repairing locks on outside doors if your keys are damaged inside the 
home by an event covered elsewhere in this Buildings insurance policy.
From the information given by Mr S in the first call, Im satisfied that the keys hadnt been 
lost or stolen, and there was no mention of an event inside the home causing damage to the 
keys. And so, I think Ageas acted fairly in declining the claim under this term. 
However, Mrs S then called Ageas and spoke to a different call handler, advising that she 
wanted to make a claim for a broken lock as a result of an attempted break in. The new call 
handler asked Mrs S if she had previously told Ageas it was a break in, and she advised that 
she had. The call handler told Mrs S that he couldnt change the decision, but that if she got 
a report from the locksmith evidencing a break in, they would look at it again.  
If the damage had been caused by a break in, then it would be covered under the policy 
term which says:
Well pay for 
Damage to your buildings as a result of theft or attempted theft
So, Mrs S then provided Ageas with an invoice from the locksmith dated 12 July which said 
the locking system has been forced and needed replacing (cylinder too). Mrs S also 
provided a crime reference number from the police, although she didnt report the attempted 
break in to the police until after she had been told to by Ageas, and I havent seen any 
evidence that the police visited the property or verified the attempted break in. 
There is also a further report from the locksmith dated 6 September which says:
we had an emergency call out on Thursday evening.
Due to mechanical key function failure (as the key was present), the intervention 
indication was to gain access by drilling the lock out, as the client was locked outside 
the house. 
After opening, the locking system was inspected and  after a new lock was installed 
 the door is now closing and locking property. The cause for the lock malfunction 
(cylinder) remains unknown as it had to be drilled (destroyed) to open.
Having reviewed this evidence, Im not satisfied that there is sufficient evidence that the lock 
was broken as a result of an attempted break in, and so I dont think that Ageas have acted 
unfairly declining this claim, and saying that the lock was broken as a result of wear and tear. 
The original information provided by Mr S, and the reports of the locksmith indicate that the 
lock had a mechanical malfunction. Even if damage been caused because the lock was forced, that doesnt necessarily indicate an attempted theft and I havent seen sufficient 
evidence that the theft section of the policy would come into play.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint about Ageas Insurance Limited.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman