DRN-3301767
The complaint
The estate of Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt fairly compensated it for mis-sold 
credit card Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) taken out by the late Mr C. The estate of 
Mr C also complains about the way Lloyds Bank PLC has handled the complaint, which it 
says has caused distress and inconvenience and asks if an award is appropriate.
What happened
Briefly:
In October 2020 Lloyds upheld the estate of Mr Cs credit card PPI mis-sale complaint (card 
ending 7644) submitted in 2019 and it offered compensation - an amount of around £650.
Because the estate of Mr C couldnt establish whether the compensation was fair  it didnt 
have any records of the PPI spend on the account  it asked Lloyds for some further 
information. And when it didnt get a response, the estate of Mr C brought the complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The adjudicator who looked at the complaint said that in their view Lloyds had fairly 
compensated the estate of Mr C. They said having reviewed the calculation Lloyds had 
provided it was in line with the approach the Financial Ombudsman Service would expect it 
to take. And while the adjudicator acknowledged the estate of Mr Cs concerns about how 
long Lloyds took to resolve things, and the manner in which it had gone about it, they said 
the delay was reflected in the compensatory interest element of the award  this is because 
the interest was calculated to the date of payment.
The estate of Mr C disagrees. In summary it doesnt believe the compensatory interest 
award adequately reflects the time taken to resolve things; particularly because the estate 
hasnt been able to finalise things and make the funds available to the beneficiaries. The 
estate of Mr C also wants an explanation of Lloyds conduct in handling the complaint and 
the time taken to resolve things. The representative bringing the complaint on behalf of the 
estate of Mr C asks whether an award for the distress and inconvenience caused is 
appropriate in the circumstances.
Because the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint  I think Lloyds offer of 
compensation is fair. My reasons are set out below.
I have reviewed the detailed calculation Lloyds has provided in arriving at the PPI 
compensation for card ending 7644. And Im satisfied the calculation has been carried out 
correctly and in line with our guidance - so the resulting refund amount represents fair 
compensation. 
As the adjudicator explained to the estate of Mr C, the calculation involves carrying out a 
detailed account reconstruction to show how the account would have operated had PPI not 
been taken out. I can see the estate of Mr C has already been provided with this so I havent 
included it again in my decision. The calculation shows the difference in the account balance 
and so what the refund is comprised of i.e. the PPI premiums paid, the interest charged on 
those premiums, any fees and charges incurred because of PPI, as well as any interest 
charged on these. If the calculation shows a credit balance would have resulted 
compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple per year is added (I note this wasnt the case 
here.) And finally Lloyds has added compensatory interest on the refund from the account 
closure date to the date of payment, which is also calculated at 8% albeit with basic rate tax 
deducted.
Because Lloyds has a full transactional history of the account from the start date in 2000 to 
its closure in 2003, it hasnt had to estimate the PPI premiums paid for any statement 
periods  so I dont have to decide whether Lloyds has made any reasonable assumptions in 
this case.
Overall, Im satisfied the payment Lloyds has made represents fair compensation in the 
circumstances.
I can see the estate of Mr C has complained about the way Lloyds handled the complaint  
and it wants an explanation of its conduct. The representative bringing the complaint on 
behalf of the estate of Mr C has also asked whether an award for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  including the additional time and effort they have personally had to 
undertake together with related additional expenses  is appropriate in this case.
I understand the representative of the estate of Mr Cs frustration with the length of time 
Lloyds took to get to the point at which it offered compensation. I think significant 
contributory factors to the delay were the PPI deadline of 2019 and the large number of 
complaints Lloyds received in the run up to it, closely followed by the disruption to business 
caused by the Covid pandemic.
But whatever the cause, the complaint points the estate of Mr C has raised about this matter 
are fundamentally about Lloyds complaint handling and the administrative and/or customer 
service issues connected to it. And these arent things I have the power to consider  they 
do not relate to a financial regulated activity as set out within the rules I have to operate 
under1.
And even if I did consider these complaint points and I found wrongdoing or 
unreasonableness, I cannot make an award in any event. This is because firstly an estate 
cannot suffer pain or distress. And secondly I cannot make a distress and inconvenience or 
cost award to third parties, which includes executors or representatives of an estate. I do not 
have the power to direct a business to make payments to third parties. 
So while I sympathise with the representative of the estate of Mr C and acknowledge the 
impact they say dealing with this matter has had, I cannot make any award for their personal 
distress, pain, or inconvenience.
1 Dispute Resolution Rules in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook.However, I do think an estate can experience delay or inconvenience  but in this case 
Lloyds calculated the interest element of the award to the date of payment. So in my view 
and taking everything into account, I think this adequately and fairly and reasonably 
compensates the estate of Mr C for the delay in resolving things and receiving payment.
In closing, I understand that the representative of the estate of Mr C will be disappointed with 
the limit to my consideration of things  but I hope my explanation adequately articulates 
why this is the case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint  I think Lloyds 
Bank PLCs payment of PPI compensation is fair in the circumstances. So I make no award 
in favour of the estate of Mr C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman