DRN-3365531
The complaint
Mr L complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a legal expenses insurance 
claim.
Many of the actions during the claim have been taken by UKIs appointed representative, D. 
Where I refer to UKI within this decision, this includes the actions of D.
What happened
Mr L holds a legal expenses insurance policy with UKI. He was knocked off his bike by a car 
and sought to make a claim on the policy in order to take legal action against the driver. 
UKI accepted cover for the claim. Mr L complains about the contents of a medical report 
which has been prepared as part of the claim and the length of time taken and 
communication from UKI during the claim. He says the medical report is inaccurate and 
should be amended, or in the alternative further medical reports should be obtained.
UKI responded to these points. It said that there was one period where he should have been 
updated but that this didnt cause avoidable delays as the claim was progressing, and that 
the medical report had been amended as the relevant expert considered appropriate but that 
any further changes wouldnt be possible.
As he remained dissatisfied, Mr L approached our service. Our investigator considered UKIs 
responses to be fair. Mr L didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When he referred the complaint to us, Mr L was in receipt of two final responses to his 
complaints from UKI. The last of these dates from August 2021. As part of my decision, I can 
only consider UKIs actions up to that date. I cant consider anything thats happened after 
that.
There are two separate matters which I need to address here, those being the contents of 
the medical report and the claim handling, including delays and communication. Ill consider 
these individually.
The medical report
The dispute here arises because Mr L says that a report prepared by a medical expert 
contains a number of inaccuracies in respect of what happened to cause his injuries, the 
extent of them and his medical history.
I can see that the first version of this report was sent to Mr L and he responded to UKI 
outlining his concerns. After this, the expert was advised of Mr Ls concerns and additional 
points, and an amended response was received with some details changed but a large 
number of Mr Ls points werent incorporated, as the expert didnt consider they could do so, 
with specific reference being made to certain disputed sections having been obtained 
directly from Mr Ls medical records.
The expert has said that they dont consider some of Mr Ls points to materially affect the 
report, and that others relate to details from his medical history. 
I appreciate that Mr L doesnt agree with the contents of the report. Its not for me to say 
whether or not the report is accurate. What I need to consider is whether it was reasonable 
for UKI to rely on this, or whether it could have done anything differently. Im satisfied that its 
fair for UKI to rely on the medical experts opinion. UKIs representatives arent medical 
experts, and they would reasonably follow the advice and guidance given by such experts. If 
the expert is saying that further amendments wont materially affect matters, or cant be 
changed because the contents are a reflection of Mr Ls medical notes, its reasonable to 
follow that advice. 
Ive considered whether UKI should seek a further medical opinion, in light of Mr Ls 
concerns about the accuracy and reliability of the original report. I think the reference to Mr 
Ls medical records is significant here. The main disputed points dont seem to relate to the 
experts opinion, but what is included in Mr Ls medical notes. On that basis, I dont think that 
UKI could reasonably conclude that a different expert would provide a significantly different 
report so as to change the conclusions. In any case, the existing medical experts report 
would remain as part of the evidence in the legal proceedings.
Im not persuaded UKI acted unreasonably in response to Mr Ls concerns about the medical 
experts report.
Claim handling
Insurers have a duty to handle claims promptly and effectively. Claims shouldnt be 
unnecessarily delayed. That said, its not uncommon for claims, particularly involving legal 
proceedings, to take some time to resolve, and cause distress and inconvenience to 
policyholders. An insurer isnt liable for this, but would be held responsible for avoidable 
delay, a lack of communication or other poor handling of the claim.
It isnt disputed that Mr Ls claim has been ongoing for a significant period of time. By the 
time of UKIs second response to his complaint, nearly two years had elapsed since the 
incident when he was injured. I can understand his frustration about that. 
I do consider that once UKI had been notified of the claim, it was pro-active in progressing it. 
There was a need to correspond with third parties, information needed to be obtained and 
reviewed, medical reports were required (as highlighted above) and other matters relating to 
the proceedings had to be dealt with.
I cant agree that the length of time the claim took to progress was because of avoidable 
delays on UKIs part. Im minded to agree that it was seeking to progress the claim and 
taking appropriate action to do so. Throughout that period, there was significant contact 
between Mr L and UKI, and the responses to Mr Ls contact were sent within a reasonable 
timeframe, except for one occasion.
UKI did admit that there was a period of around six weeks where Mr L asked for an update 
but no direct contact was made by UKI. I cant agree thought that there was any meaningful 
impact on the claim because of this. By Mr Ls own account, he was receiving contact about 
arranging an appointment for the medical assessment. Im satisfied the claim was progressing during this time. While UKI should have responded 
directly to the contact from Mr L, it didnt result in an avoidable delay or any obvious material 
inconvenience to Mr L beyond him chasing for an update several weeks later. 
Im not persuaded I should ask UKI to do any more to put things right here.  
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman