DRN-2258636
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Extra Cover Limited trading as Zego provided a poor service 
when he contacted them after he was involved in an incident with another vehicle. Zego 
dealt with Mr Ms query and complaint as claims administrator for his private hire motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M was involved in an incident with another vehicle and his car was damaged. He had 
breakdown recovery as a benefit under his bank account. So he used this benefit and 
arranged recovery of his car. 
The third party insurer (TPI) accepted fault for the incident and offered to deal with Mr Ms 
claim directly. Its services included hire car. So Mr M didnt make a claim under his private 
hire policy.
However, Mr M called Extra Cover to complain that the TPI wouldnt pay a reasonable 
amount to cover his loss of earnings. Extra Cover explained that this was an uninsured loss 
and so wasnt covered under his policy, and that he was claiming directly against the TPI in 
any event.
Mr M asked us to look at his complaint. He said he paid for his insurance but was offered no 
help.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He explained that 
this service cannot look at his complaint about the services provided by the TPI. He said:
This is because in order to be an eligible complainant, you need to have one of the
relationships set out in the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP 2.7.6) which can be 
found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook with the insurer you are 
complaining about.
Because you arent a direct customer of the Third Party Insurer, and the policy wasnt 
taken out, or intended to be taken out, for your benefit, you dont have the required 
relationship. that as the TPI dealt with his claim, Mr M isnt an eligible complainant for 
us to consider his complaints about them.
The investigator looked at Mr Ms policy which Extra Cover administered. He found that Mr 
M didnt have cover for loss of use. And as Mr Ms policy didnt provide cover for breakdown 
recovery, the investigator didnt think Extra Cover had done anything wrong. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said he pays for his insurance, but they havent taken any 
responsibility for the claim.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M didnt make a claim under his insurance policy. When Mr M complained about the 
TPIs refusal to cover his loss of earnings, he spoke to the claims administrator of his policy - 
Extra Cover. And this is the business that has replied to Mr Ms complaint. As it was Extra 
Cover that provided the information Mr M is unhappy about, my decision is about the actions 
of Extra Cover.
Insurance policies dont cover every eventuality. Benefits such as breakdown recovery, 
courtesy car, or personal injury are either included or optional as additional cover. 
Loss of use or earnings is classed as an uninsured loss. Mr Ms policy says the following 
about loss of earnings or use:
We will not provide cover for:
 Loss of use of the Insured Vehicle.
I understand Mr M will be disappointed with my decision. But I dont think Extra Cover 
provided a poor service by not assisting Mr M in his claim against the TPI for loss of 
earnings. I think it correctly explained the level of cover Mr Ms policy provided. So I dont 
think Extra Cover acted unreasonably. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman