DRN-3535782
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way Amtrust Europe Limited handled his household warranty 
claim. Hes unhappy with how long it took for the repairs to be completed. 
Any reference to Mr G and Amtrust includes the actions and submissions of their respective 
representative and agents.
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, so Ive provided a 
summary of whats happened. 
In October 2020, Mr G made a claim to Amtrust when the reclining mechanism in his 
chair stopped working properly.  
A technician visited in December 2020 who was unable to fully repair the issue but 
did change the electrical set in the chair. In January 2021 a technician visited as the 
recliners buttons had been put back on incorrectly. 
Problems persisted with the chair and a replacement part needed to be ordered from 
the manufacturer. Following a visit in February 2021 to identify the part required, 
Amtrust placed an order for it on 19 March 2021. 
The replacement part was due to be delivered in mid-June 2021, but it didnt arrive. 
Amtrust chased the manufacturer numerous times to find out when the part would be 
delivered.
An appointment to fit the part was scheduled for 12 October 2021  but the part was 
found to be incompatible with the set of electrics which had been replaced by the first 
technician. 
Mr G complained about the service he received in November 2021.  In December 
2021 Mr G added that technicians had left staples from the sofa on the floor and that 
the sofa had not been put back together properly. Amtrust said it could arrange for 
the staples to be refitted but Mr G said hed wait for the whole repair to be completed.
In early January 2022, Amtrust said it could attend to carry out the repair. But by 
early February 2022, Mr G hadnt heard what was happening and so had to chase 
Amtrust for an update. 
When a technician visited in March 2022, the motor was found to be incompatible. 
The correct replacement part was finally fitted in May 2022.
In May 2022, Amtrust issued its final response. It apologised for the difficulties Mr G 
had experienced and offered £200 compensation to reflect this. 
Mr G doesnt think the compensation is fair and asked our service to consider his 
complaint. 
Our investigator considered it and said Amtrust needed to pay more compensation. 
She thought £300 was reasonable. She didnt think it was fair to ask Amtrust to pay 
more because it wasnt responsible for the delays caused by the supplier of the 
replacement part. And she didnt think Amtrust could have anticipated that the first 
replacement part wouldnt be compatible with the new electrical set.
Amtrust agreed to the investigators recommendation but Mr G didnt. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the requirements set by the Regulator, which include that 
insurers must deal with claims promptly and fairly. Having done so, I agree with the 
recommendation made by our investigator to increase the compensation to £300 and Ill 
explain why. 
Ive reviewed the timeline of events and its clear this claim went on for longer than I would 
expect  19 months to repair a chair is undoubtedly unreasonable. So quite understandably 
Mr G is frustrated with how long things took. From what Ive seen Mr G was patient whilst 
waiting for the matter to be sorted, but when having not heard from Amtrust for an 
unreasonable length of time, chased things up. 
Along with this, Mr G had the inconvenience of not being able to use his chair properly, and 
disappointingly, technicians didnt always put his chair back together as it should have been 
 which no doubt, compounded his frustration. 
So, Im in no doubt that compensation should be paid to Mr G for the difficulties hes 
experienced. But in deciding whats reasonable, I must keep in mind that where a repair is 
required  for which a new part is needed - there is likely to be some delay. Its unfortunate 
the manufacturer took approximately eight months to deliver the first replacement part, but I 
cant attribute this to Amtrust having done something wrong as this was ultimately, outside of 
its control. Reassuringly, from the contact notes Ive seen, Amtrust actively chased the 
manufacturer for updates on the delivery date during this time  so I think it did what it could 
to move things along. 
Frustratingly, the replacement part wasnt compatible because the electrical set in Mr Gs 
chair had been changed when the first technician visited. Whilst this was completed by an 
Amtrust technician, Im not persuaded it could have been foreseen that the new replacement 
part wouldnt be compatible. So, I dont think its reasonable to say the delays which 
stemmed from this were avoidable. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for Amtrust to pay an 
additional £100 compensation, bringing the total compensation awarded to £300. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Amtrust Europe Limited must pay Mr G an 
additional £100 compensation, making the total compensation payable £300. Amtrust Europe Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman