DRN-2037256
The complaint
Mr K complains about Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) closing his current account 
and registering a default on his credit file.
 
What happened
Mr K had a current account with Halifax with an agreed overdraft limit of £2,200. In 2019, 
Halifax closed this account with an overdrawn balance of £2,202.96, registered a default and 
sold the debt to a third party. 
Mr K complained to Halifax because he didnt think his account conduct warranted this 
action and he hadnt been notified about the default in advance.
 
Halifax responded to Mr Ks complaint to say they had written to Mr K a number of times to 
ask him to bring his account within its limit, he hadnt got in touch with them so theyd closed 
the account. Theyd reported this action, in line with their obligations to report account 
conduct, to the credit reference agencies and sold the debt. 
Mr K wasnt happy with Halifaxs response. So he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators considered what had happened. He said, in summary, Halifax had 
tried to contact Mr K about the account but that as the account was not repaid, Halifax were 
entitled to close it and register a default in relation to the overdrawn balance. Our 
investigator also concluded the charges applied to Mr Ks account had been applied 
correctly.
Mr K didnt accept the Investigators opinion. He said hed never questioned the charges the 
bank had applied. Mr K also said he still didnt think Halifaxs actions were fair because 
thered been account activity, hed never been more than about £100 over the overdraft limit 
and never received any communication from Halifax about the account. He said as the 
account was an online account Halifax shouldve at least emailed him. 
As Mr K didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K said hes concerned that my decision will be based solely upon the terms and 
conditions of the account. So I want to reassure him that Ive considered everything  
including the terms and conditions - but also whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of his complaint.
 
Mr K told our investigator hed never questioned the charges applied to his account, but for 
completeness Im satisfied having reviewed them that they were applied correctly in line with 
the terms and conditions of his account.
 
Under the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account, the overdraft was repayable on demand  
which meant Halifax could ask Mr K to repay part, or all of it, at any time. 
The terms and conditions also say that two months notice will be given if the bank decides 
to close a customers account. In addition to considering the agreement Mr K had with the 
bank, Ive also considered whether it was fair and reasonable in these particular 
circumstances for Halifax to take the actions that they did. 
Mr K had this account for a number of years. By the time it was closed in July 2019, it had 
been overdrawn consistently since at least August 2018. I can see from the statements that 
it wasnt in regular use. Payments were made into the account sporadically, usually when 
the account was nearing, or over, the overdraft limit. 
In March 2019, the account exceeded its overdraft limit. Halifax wrote to Mr K on 2 April 
2019 to ask him to bring the account within its overdraft limit. They wrote again to Mr K on 9 
April 2019 because they hadnt heard from him. 
A further letter was sent to Mr K on 30 April 2019, this was a formal demand for repayment 
of the overdraft. This letter explained that if Halifax didnt hear from Mr K by 14 May 2019, it 
would close his account within two months and may register a default on his credit file. 
So I find Halifax gave Mr K the required notice to Mr K about the closure of his account and 
set out they may decide to register a default if payment wasnt made.
A payment was received into the account on 2 May 2019. But this didnt bring the account 
within its limit. So Halifax wrote to Mr K again on 6 June 2020, to explain he now had 30 
days to bring the account up to date otherwise it would close the account and transfer it to its 
recoveries team.
Mr K says he didnt get any of the letters sent by the bank. But Halifaxs records show they 
were sent and to the same address Mr K gave us. So I dont know why he didnt receive 
them, but I havent seen anything which suggests Halifax are responsible for him not getting 
them, which means Im satisfied theyve fulfilled their obligations in telling him. 
Mr K also says that Halifax shouldve sent an email but I dont think they were obliged to. In 
any event, Mr K had access to online banking. So he couldve seen the status of his account 
and that it remained over its limit in May 2019. Still no contact was made with the bank or 
further payments made to the account.
 
As no contact was received or further payments were made to the account. Halifax closed 
and transferred it to recoveries on 10 July 2019. It also registered a default on Mr Ks credit 
file. 
Mr Ks made the point that his account never exceeded the overdraft by more than about 
£100. But I dont think this matters. Mr Ks agreement with Halifax was that he could borrow 
up to £2,200, in the form of an overdraft on his current account. Mr K exceeded that 
agreement several times during the life of the account and, on this occasion, didnt rectify it 
in a timely manner. So it wasnt unreasonable for Halifax to take the action they did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman