DRN-4309254
The complaint
Mr E complains that Creation Financial Services Limited unfairly closed his account without 
expanation. Hed like compensation for the impact and damage to his credit file.
What happened
Mr E had a rewards club credt card account with Creation. The card included the ability to 
earn reward points, which could be redeemed for hotel stays or experiences. 
In late 2021, Creation sent Mr E a letter informing him that his credit card accout would be 
closed in December 2021.
 
Mr E complained to Creation. But Creation didnt uphold his complaint. They said they acted 
fairly in closing Mr Es account, and Mr E didnt have any outstanding reward points. Mr E 
was unhappy with Creations response and brought his compaint to our service.
 
Mr E said he has been treated disgracfully by Creation and always maintained his account 
properly. So he says Creation has closed his account unfairly. Mr E is also worried that his 
credit file has been impacted as a result of Creation closing his account and the application 
he completed when he applied for account in the first place. Hes explained that he has a 
long term health condition and caring responsibilites, so spending time dealing with financial 
matters is challenging and stressful for him. He wants Creation to pay him compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused by it closing his account.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Es complaint. She said Creation hadnt done 
anything wrong when it had closed his account. And thought it was unlikley that the closing 
of Mr Es acocunt had impacted his creidt score negatively. Mr C disagreed. He said 
Creation have closed a huge number of accounts, inclduing his, in an attempt to stifle the 
competition, simply for using the services of another business.
 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Creation has provided is information that we 
considered should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able to share a lot of 
detail with Mr E, but Id like to reassure him that I have considered everything.
Account closure
I understand that Mr E is unhappy Creation closed his account, it cant be pleasant being 
told you are no longer wanted as a customer. Creation can only close accounts in certain 
cirucumstances and if its in the terms and conditions of the account. Creation have relied on 
the terms and conditions when closing Mr Es account. Ive reviewed the terms and they 
explain that Creation can close an account for any reason by giving 60 days notice. 
Having looked at all the information available to me, including Creations actions and the 
information its provided Im satisfied that Creations decision to close Mr Es account  was 
reached legitimately and fairly. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and circumstances of 
this complaint, and Im satisfied Creation acted in line with them, so, it was entitled to close 
the account as it has already done. 
I appreciate this is disappointing for Mr E however, Creation have provided Mr E with the full 
notice period, so I cant say Creation have acted unfairly in taking the actions it did. Ive 
considered whether Creation need to offer any compensation in regard to the closure. But 
from what Ive seen the decision to close was reasonable. So it wouldnt be appropriate for 
me to award any compensation since I dont find Creation treated Mr E unfairly when it 
closed his account.
Mr E says Creation has closed his account in an attempt to stifle the competition. He has 
pointed to others who have raised similar complaints to this service in support of what hes 
said about his suspicions. Whilst I can appreciate Mr Es frustration and his point of view, 
this is a matter for the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority and not this service. So, 
Ive not considered this aspect of Mr Es complaint further.
I acknowledge Mr Es comments about other individuals who have made similar complaints 
about Creation. But I cant comment on those. This decision has focussed solely Mr Es 
complaint. And each complaint is considered on its own individual merits.
Credit file
Mr E is concerned that his credit file has been impacted by completing an application 
process to open the account and by Creation closing it.
When a customer makes an application to open an account, its not unusual for a business, 
like Creation to carry our searches with credit reference agencies when considering 
applications for an account. Creation confirms this is something it does in its terms and 
conditions for the account Mr E wanted to open. This search would have left a footprint on 
Mr Es credit file. Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr E wasnt happy to proceed with 
his application, so in light of the above I cant say Creation did anything wrong when it 
carried out a credit search on Mr E.
I appreciate what Mr E has said about his credit file. Whilst I accept what Mr E says and 
understand his concerns, I havent seen any evidence that Creations credit search led to 
Mr E suffering any financial loss or meant he couldnt apply for another account. 
If a customer applies for an account, and agrees to credit searches in the process, I would, 
only expect this type of information to be removed if the business performing the searches 
provided incorrect information to credit reference agencies. Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
was the case here. A search was carried out because Mr E applied for an account.  And 
Creation reported information about how the account had been managed when it closed 
Mr Es account. Creation is under an obligation to report accurate information. Im satisfied 
that is what has happened here. I can understand Mr E is concerned that because it was Creation who closed the account 
and not him the closure may impact his credit file. But Ive not seen any evidence that this is 
the case. Ive also kept in mind that Mr E didnt owe anything when the account was closed, 
and Mr E maintained his repayments.  
I note too that Creation tried to assist Mr E by informing him that he could add a statement to 
his credit file, known as Notice of Corrections. This is a short explanatory note that can be 
added to an entry on a credit file to explain the background to that information. Anyone 
searching Mr Es credit file in the future would then have been able see the note and have to 
take that into consideration if and when Mr E applied for credit. So, while I understand this 
was frustrating for Mr E, I do not find that Creation did anything wrong in completing a credit 
check and reporting information to credit reference agencies.
Finally, Mr E has said he wants compensation to resolve this matter. Hes pointed out that 
hes spent time and effort trying to resolve his complaint. Hes said he has waited a long time 
for things to be sorted out and had to go to the trouble of bringing his complaint to this 
service.
I should explain that our awards are designed to reflect the actual loss, trouble, and upset 
caused to the consumer by something a financial business did wrong. We are not here to 
punish financial businesses. Nor can we award compensation as a means of punishing a 
business for a consumer bringing their complaint to this service. Mr E has asked to be 
compensated for the time hes had to wait for his complaint to be resolved. But Id need to be 
satisfied that hes lost out and been caused inconvenience by not having his complaint 
resolved sooner. And on balance, I cant say this is the case. Therefore, I wont be awarding 
any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint 
against Creation Financial Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman