DRN-4160461
The complaint
Mr H complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) avoided his motor 
insurance policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr H took out a motor insurance policy with Skyfire after obtaining a quote for a new car 
through an online price comparison site. The policy started in October 2022 and the 
documents were sent to Mr H for his review. In the same month Mr H updated the vehicle 
registration number to his personalised number plate.
When his car was damaged in an incident, he tried to make a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
Skyfire said hed answered the question it asked about modifications to his car incorrectly. 
He had said there were no modifications. And it considered this to be a careless/reckless 
qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy and refuse his claim 
because of this. It refunded his remaining premiums.  
Mr H brought his complaint to us, and our investigator thought it should not be upheld. They 
said Skyfires decision that Mr H made a qualifying misrepresentation was reasonable. And 
they thought it had acted reasonably by treating his misrepresentation as serious. They said 
as Skyfire avoided his policy, returned his remaining premiums and arent taking 
responsibility for the claim this was in line with Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012  (CIDRA), so they did not think Skyfire should take any further 
action.
Mr H doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
said the parts fitted to his car were not modifications. He said his car had no engine or
mechanical modifications and the front gill and rear bumper had been upgraded with the 
approved main dealer and passed all their preparation standards. He said the main dealer 
told him this would not affect his insurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has said, the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Skyfire thinks Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
failed to disclose his car was modified. 
I saw when Mr H entered the details of his car into the online comparison website he was 
asked Has the car had any additional modifications and Mr H answered no. I saw that at 
the side of this question the help tab said;
Modifications are non-standard changes made to the car after manufacture, including new 
spoilers, allow wheels etc.
I saw in Mr Hs policy documents it is clearly stated the car was not modified. 
I saw the evidence from Skyfires engineers that said the car was modified and Skyfire said 
this should have been disclosed when Mr H ran the quote to change his car.
I looked at evidence from the main dealer that says Mr Hs car had no mechanical 
modifications. However it says the front grill and rear bumper had been upgraded. It said the 
car had passed all the main dealer preparation standards. 
I do not think Mr H took reasonable care to answer the question accurately.  I think this is a 
qualifying misrepresentation
Skyfire has provided evidence of its underwriting criteria which shows it only accepts certain 
modifications made to vehicles. The list does not include upgrades to the front grill or rear 
bumper. It said  had it known the vehicle had been modified it would not have offered cover 
at the mid-term adjustment stage, as these modifications are not in its acceptability table. 
This means Im satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Skyfire Insurance has said Mr Hs misrepresentation was serious. When asked to clarify this 
it said it was careless/deliberate.
I dont agree Mr Hs misrepresentation can be both careless and deliberate. It has to be one 
or the other.
Mr H still maintains the car is not modified because he said the parts were genuine main 
dealer parts fitted by the main dealer. However these are still modifications to the car. I 
therefore think the misrepresentation was careless.
As Im satisfied Mr Hs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Skyfire can take in accordance with CIDRA. It can avoid his policy, decline any 
claim, and should return any unused premiums.
Skyfire avoided Mr Hs policy from 14 October 2022, declined his claim and returned his 
unused premiums to him. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Skyfire was entitled to avoid Mr Hs policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Skyfire  does not have 
to deal with his claim following the incident with his car. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Skyfire to rely on it to 
avoid Mr Hs policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman