DRN-3653120
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quote he received from Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva), to 
replace his boiler, following a claim under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr Ws boiler broke down and he contacted Aviva to make a claim. It sent an engineer who 
ultimately deemed Mr Ws boiler beyond economical repair (BER). Aviva offered to replace 
the boiler as per the policy terms and conditions. And under the policy, Mr W was told that 
he would be responsible for the installation costs. 
Aviva sent two quotes to Mr W to consider and he agreed that the replacement boiler would 
be the upgraded model, rather than the like for life model that Aviva wouldve used to 
replace Mr Ws boiler. When Mr W received the quotes, he questioned Aviva as to why there 
were items contained in the quotes that shouldve been included with the installation of the 
boiler. As he felt that the boiler wouldnt be able to be installed without them. 
Aviva confirmed the quotes were correct and that the cost of the actual boiler was excluded 
from them, in line with the policy terms and conditions. Mr W was unhappy and raised a 
complaint. In its final response, Aviva maintained its position that it had complied with the 
policy terms and conditions. 
Mr W was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that Mr 
W felt that paying for the additional costs to bring the installation of the boiler in line with 
statutory requirements wasnt required as they were needed for the boiler to operate. Aviva 
said that the additional costs formed part of the installation and under the policy Mr W only 
had to pay for the boiler itself, which is what had happened here. 
Aviva accepted the view, Mr W did not.  He said that Aviva hadnt been clear in the wording 
of the policy. Also, it hadnt been clear in the way the charges were detailed. In that it was 
listed as boiler and installation as one item. And if the boiler couldnt be installed without 
incurring these additional costs, then this should have been made clear in the policy, which 
Mr W said it wasnt. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be a 
disappointment for Mr W, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision.
I have considered what both parties have said and reviewed the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr W said that the wording in the policy wasnt clear. In that, the boiler couldnt be installed 
without incurring the additional costs.
Aviva said that it was clear in the wording of the policy that it would provide a free boiler, but 
that Mr W would be responsible for the insulation costs. So, I have considered what the 
policy said. 
The terms said: If the boiler is deemed beyond economical repair and is 7 years or older, we 
will source, replace and install a new boiler but you will be required to pay the installation 
costs. What is of note is that in the section just before this section it says: If upon making a 
claim after the first 6 months of cover your boiler is deemed to be BER or the parts required 
to fix your boiler are obsolete and the boiler is less than 7 years old, we will source, replace 
and install a new boiler. 
I think the wording is clear as there is a distinction between what Aviva would supply 
depending on the age of the boiler. And as Mr Ws boiler was more than seven years old, 
Avivas responsibility under the terms and conditions was to provide a free boiler  which is 
the actual unit  and Mr W was responsible for the installation costs. 
I understand that Mr W felt that many of the items required to instal the boiler would be 
needed, otherwise the boiler couldnt operate. But those costs I think are the necessary 
installation costs, which the policy makes clear that the policyholder would be responsible 
for.  
Mr W has also said that the quote that he was provided with didnt make it clear that the 
boiler and installation costs were separate. So, Ive had a look at the quotes and also asked 
Aviva for its comments. 
Aviva said that under the policy it would provide the boiler free of charge. The boiler would 
give the same output as the boiler before. But the discount on the quote is for the cost of the 
boiler in this instance £929 which was shown on the quotes that Mr W had. 
Mr W chose to upgrade his boiler, which is something he was permitted to do. But Aviva 
explained that even though he upgraded, the discount would remain the same, as Aviva 
would only provide the discount for the like-for-like model. And Mr W would have to pay the 
difference. In addition to the cost of the boiler, would be the additional installation costs such 
as the difference in the cost of parts.  
Having reviewed the quotes, Im satisfied that they clearly showed the costs that Aviva would 
be responsible for (the boiler as a unit) and the costs that Mr W would be responsible for. 
So, I dont think Aviva hasnt complied with its obligations under the policy. That is, to supply 
a boiler and of course for Mr W to pay for the installation costs. 
Although I understand that this is not the outcome Mr W wouldve liked, I wont be asking 
Aviva to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I wont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman