DRN-1933877
 
The complaint
Mr B complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called PDL 
Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender. He said he was lent to irresponsibly and this 
caused him financial problems. To keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Mr Lender in the 
decision.
Background
We now know Mr B was given 3 loans by Mr lender as follows: 
Loan Date Taken Out Date Repaid Type of Loan Amount Highest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 03/10/2013 21/11/2013 Payday £250 £337
2 21/11/2013 12/03/2014 Payday £650 £845
3 25/05/2016 Outstanding Instalment £650 £296
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
in respect of loan 2 only. Mr Lender didnt agree and otherwise offered to settle the dispute. 
This wasnt accepted by Mr B who asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Bs complaint.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
B could repay the loan he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have 
taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amount and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans, not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr B 
could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the 
case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Mr Lender told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr B, including 
assessing his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that all this information 
showed that Mr B would be able to make the loan repayments he was committing to. I think 
the financial checks carried out by Mr Lender were probably quite basic ones and in cases 
where the number of loans is low (as in this case) and / or where the lending relationship 
quite short, I think such checks are usually proportionate.
However, in this case, one specific issue stands out. Whilst I dont think we should uphold 
loan numbers 1 or 3, the repayments required on loan number 2 differed from the others. For 
example, the lending for loan 2 was over one single instalment and because the amount 
borrowed was higher than had been the case for loan 1, the amount Mr B was required to 
pay back in a single instalment was very high when set against his earnings. 
Mr Bs monthly pay wasnt high and looking at his other monthly commitments, the £845 
one-off payment for loan 2 represented a substantial and majority proportion of his total pay. 
In short, it pushed this particular loan into an unsustainable level for Mr B. Having 
responsibility for a loan such as this would have caused, in my view, Mr B to experience 
financial hardship and vulnerability. It would also have been likely to cause him to seek 
lending elsewhere to cover the repayment costs. 
Mr Lender could have set up the loan in a number of different ways. This couldve included a 
lower amount, lower interest and / or payments spread out over a longer period. But theres 
no evidence Mr Lender changed its approach from the lending it provided previously. This 
means I think loan 2 was unsustainable and the complaint in this respect should be upheld.
Loan 3 was several years later. I therefore think its reasonable to consider this as new 
lending. Although Mr B was lent the same amount as loan 2, we can see this loan was 
structured differently. This meant the payments were lower and therefore more affordable for 
Mr B. So even though we now know he did subsequently experience some difficulty with the 
repayments, at the time loan 3 was given he did appear to have the capacity to repay. Im 
therefore not upholding this part of the complaint.
In summary, I think any reasonable assessment of Mr Bs financial situation at the point of 
loan number 2 would have shown that he shouldnt have been given this loan in the way it 
was structured. I dont think it was responsible to do so because it represented such an 
unreasonable proportion of Mr Bs income at the time. I therefore uphold the complaint in 
respect of loan number 2  but not in respect of loans 1 or 3. HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr B a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr B, Mr Lender should:
refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on loan 2 (only); 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
it was paid to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 3, if this is still outstanding, 
and treat any payments Mr B made towards this loan as payments towards the 
capital;
if reworking Mr Bs loan 3 account as Ive directed results in Mr B effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Mr Lender should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement;
if reworking Mr Bs loan 3 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Mr Lender can use the total refund for loan 2 to offset this. And if there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then I would remind Mr Lender that it should take a 
sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr B for 
the remaining capital.
Remove, or cause to be removed, any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit 
file in relation to loan number 2.
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint and I direct PDL Finance Limited to put things right for Mr 
B as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman