DRN-2188445
The complaint
The estate of the late Mrs Q, represented by Mr Q, complains that National Westminster 
Bank Plc refused a claim brought under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) 
and which related to a motor vehicle. Mr Q, on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs Q, wishes 
to recover the cost of repairs to the vehicle.
What happened
As the estate of the late Mrs Q is represented by her husband, Ill mostly refer to him.
Mr Q tells us that in 2019 his late wife purchased a vehicle at an online auction run by a 
company Ill refer to as B. He states that the cost was paid for by her NatWest credit card 
and amounted to £2,200. He explains that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality. And that 
it had been inspected on arrival and found to require various repairs to be done including to 
clutch, engine and brakes. He explains that these repairs have now been made but he wants 
NatWest to meet the repair costs of £828. And the buyers fee of £416.
NatWest told us that it had first tried to make a claim to B through chargeback. But the 
vehicle wasnt returned. And as that was condition of chargeback the claim couldnt proceed. 
So it had considered a claim under Section 75. But based on the lack of information to show 
that the repairs were not due to wear and tear it considered there hadnt been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
description of the vehicle applied by B hadnt included any representation about the 
mechanical or electrical condition of any component. And that the vehicle had been subject 
to and passed a MOT on the day it was delivered.
On behalf of the estate of the late Mrs Q, Mr Q didnt agree with this outcome. As its not 
been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wish to express my condolences to Mr Q. I understand that this has been a sad and difficult 
time for him. And I appreciate that he would rather not have had to deal with the issues to 
which this complaint refers, at a time when he had far more important considerations with 
which to cope.
I should explain that as the complaint is brought against NatWest, Im unable to consider the 
actions of B directly. But in respect of those aspects of Bs involvement for which NatWest 
is potentially equally responsible I have taken them into account.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Or what a court might decide. Rather, Im determining whats a fair way to 
resolve Mr Qs complaint. I have to take account of relevant law, amongst other things. 
Section 75 is relevant law.
In summary, in some limited circumstances, Section 75 gives a consumer an equal claim 
against the provider of finance as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services about which complaint is brought. It requires there to have been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
Ive seen a description of the vehicle that was applied by B prior to the sale. In terms, this 
categorised items by reference to a grade. The vehicle in this case was described as grade 
3.
Amongst the relevant factors relating to this categorisation was the statement:
What is not included in a Vehicle Appraisal
 It is not a full body detailed inspection
 It does not highlight every imperfection
 It does not highlight every panel that has been repaired/repainted, only those that are poor 
and clearly visible from 2 metres
 It does not cover the mechanical or electrical condition of any component
 It is not commensurate with age, mileage or value; every vehicle is treated equally
Ive seen reports from two garages which Ill refer to as OM and BM relating to the repairs 
which were allegedly required. BM stated that it didnt think the issues arose from normal 
wear and tear. But it doesnt go on to explain on what basis it had reached that view. Nor is 
the report accompanied by anything to show the experience of the person making the 
assessment. OM gave the opinion that an engine replacement was necessary  but Ive 
seen nothing to justify such a statement.
The repairs invoices with which Ive been provided show that work was done in replacing the 
clutch as well as general servicing work on the brakes and engine. 
In summary, the items listed would all be usually regarded as serviceable items or those 
which might require replacement during the lifetime of the vehicle. And given the description 
of the vehicle and the grade to which it had been categorised I dont consider that the vehicle 
has been misrepresented or that there was any breach of contract in relation to it not being 
of satisfactory quality in terms of its mechanical condition.
The other issue that its fair and reasonable for me to take into account in considering the 
overall issue of quality, is the price which was paid for the vehicle. The reasonable person 
wouldnt expect to pay the same price for a used vehicle as they would for a new vehicle. 
Equally so, they wouldnt expect a used vehicle to be of the same quality as a new vehicle.
Our investigator made a check using a recognised car valuation tool. He found this vehicle 
had an estimated value of around £5,500. Taking into account both the purchase and repair 
costs it still means that the vehicle was acquired at well below its estimated market value.In summary, Ive considered how NatWest has dealt with this complaint and Section 75 
claim. I find that it has taken the relevant factors into account. And that it has reached a fair 
and reasonable decision based on the information available, not to uphold the claim. 
Accordingly I shant be asking it to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs Q to accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman