DRN-3789738
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the way in which John Lewis Financial Services Limited dealt with a 
claim she sought to make to it in relation to a holiday she was unable to take. Mrs P paid for 
the booking using her John Lewis credit card. Shes unhappy with the time John Lewis took 
to investigate and respond to the claim, and with the outcome it reached.
Im conscious both Mrs P and her husband have been dealing with this complaint. Ive 
referred only to Mrs P in this decision as she is the John Lewis account holder and the 
eligible complainant under our rules. I intend no disrespect by this.
What happened
Mrs P had a holiday villa booked, which she paid for using her John Lewis credit card. 
Unfortunately, the holiday fell during a period in which the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Office (FCO) had issued guidance in response to the Covid-19 pandemic advising against 
non-essential travel to her intended destination. Following the FCO advice, Mrs P didnt 
travel. However, the villa was available for use and the booking agent said it wasnt willing to 
refund her. After speaking with her travel insurer Mrs P turned to John Lewis to see if she 
could recover her money.
John Lewis said it could submit a chargeback claim. Its response led Mrs P to think that the 
booking agent was obliged to refund her. John Lewis didnt give a precise timescale for 
processing the claim, but indicated it was dealing with a significant number of claims and 
that it might take a while. She was later given a timescale of up to 12 weeks.
Ultimately however, it took six months for John Lewis to deal with the claim. During that time 
it made several requests of Mrs P for information  including evidence shed already 
provided  and she called it several times to chase up its decision. And when John Lewis did 
reach a conclusion, it was that the claim wouldnt be successful because the villa had still 
been available.
Mrs P felt this was something that had been known from the outset. She considered that a 
good deal of time was wasted while she was awaiting John Lewiss response, which she 
needed in order to progress matters with her travel insurer. She complained to John Lewis, 
who offered a total of £150 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
delays. John Lewis maintained the claim outcome was correct.
Our investigator agreed that the underlying claim outcome was appropriate in the 
circumstances. But she thought John Lewis should increase its compensation offer by a 
further £50, which she considered a more suitable amount to reflect the problems Mrs P had 
faced in dealing with the claim. John Lewis agreed to the investigators proposal.  But Mrs P 
did not. She felt it was inadequate in light of the emotional distress shed experienced.
The matter has now been passed to me for review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive no doubt that Mrs P experienced frustration, annoyance and inconvenience because of 
the way John Lewis dealt with the claim. While for the reasons already explained, Im 
satisfied the outcome it reached was correct, its delay in investigating isnt in dispute.
I know our investigator has already noted that at the material time banks and other card 
providers were experiencing an unprecedented number of similar claims as a result of 
Covid-related events. Its important to recognise that this contributed towards the time John 
Lewis took.
However, it doesnt explain why Mrs P was asked to provide information shed already 
supplied. I accept that some of John Lewiss requests were unnecessary, prolonging the 
investigation and further frustrating Mrs P.
I dont consider it would have been appropriate for John Lewis to decide at the outset that 
the claim could never have been successful. I appreciate Mrs P feels doing so would have 
saved a lot of time and enabled her to move forward with her insurance claim much sooner. 
However, as our investigator has already observed, there were factors relevant to the claim 
that might have led to a different outcome depending on the individual circumstances.
Im satisfied it was appropriate for John Lewis to look further into matters to see if there was 
a basis for a successful claim before reaching the outcome it did  even if it could have done 
rather better overall in the way it conducted that investigation.
The remaining question, then, is the appropriate level of compensation to reflect Mrs Ps 
time and trouble arising from those shortcomings. John Lewiss initial offer of £50 was clearly 
not enough. I think the additional £100 it proposed in its final response might have been a 
reasonable starting point. In Mrs Ps specific circumstances, I agree with the investigator that 
it didnt quite reflect the difficulties she was caused.
There is a distinction to be drawn between emotional distress and the everyday frustration or 
annoyance many of us experience when dealing with organisations and businesses. I dont 
want Mrs P to think Im understating the way she felt about the lengthy process she went 
through. But having regard to the general level of awards we make, which can be found on 
our website, I share the investigators view that a total payment of £200 fairly reflects the 
impact of John Lewiss actions on Mrs P.
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle this complaint, John Lewis Financial Services Limited 
should pay Mrs P a total of £200. To be clear, this amount includes any sums it has 
previously offered or paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman