DRN-3032452
The complaint
X complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly put their account under review, 
restricted access, and then closed it. X also complains about the way they have been treated 
by Barclays staff. 
 
What happened
On 19 May 2020, Barclays placed Xs account under review and restricted Xs access to it. 
Barclays explained the review of Xs account would take 10 days. Unhappy about this, X 
complained to Barclays and this service. 
In mid-June 2020, Barclays decided to close Xs account with immediate effect. Barclays say 
it sent a letter to X explaining this. A few days later, Barclays completed its review.  
Barclays informed X they could withdraw their funds from the account by going into branch 
and providing certain documents as way of identification. X says they, and their partner, had 
several issues with Barclays branch staff whilst asking for updates on the review, and when 
withdrawing their money.
Id like to assure X that Ive carefully considered everything theyve said about this, both to 
Barclays and this service, even if I dont explicitly list all the points out here. With that in 
mind, some of the key things X says are: 
- they were left without any update or knowledge of what was going on for a long 
period of time when the account was restricted and placed under review 
- Barclays staff member deliberately obfuscated, and mislead them, by changing their 
name tags. Another bank nearby was found to be carrying out similar activity to 
mislead its customers 
- they were falsely, and dishonestly, told by branch staff members that the branch 
manager was not at work. But were later told they were, but that they were busy on 
the phone
- Barclays review of the account, and poor customer, are the result of a targeted 
agenda against X and their partner. This stems back to previous interactions with 
branch members   
- A council tax letter wasnt accepted as proof of identification alongside Xs driving 
licence, leading to a 20-minute delay while the operations manager checked it in 
branch 
- Barclays branch staff didnt give X a receipt for the cash withdrawal following the 
account closure
Barclays responded to Xs complaint. Over several responses, and in summary it said: 
- Barclays review of the account, and subsequent restrictions placed on it, were in line 
with the terms of the account 
- Barclays, as per its terms and conditions, doesnt have to explain the basis of its 
review and the actions it took. Nor does it need to give an explanation on the 
guidelines it used when deciding to close the account  
- its sorry the review took more than the ten days it said it would 
- X could have access to its remaining funds by going to a Barclays branch with two 
forms of identification; one of which needed to be photographic. Barclays is sorry if X 
was asked for proof of those funds in branch as that was not necessary 
- A CIFAS (Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System) marker was not added against X
- Barclays are sorry about the poor service X say they received, and following an 
internal investigation, it found it had let X down. To address the inconvenience and 
distress this caused, Barclays would pay £350 to X. Feedback about any service 
failings were provided to the branch manager
In response X said Barclays should pay another £550 for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused. 
Our investigator then looked into the matter. In the round, they found: 
- Financial businesses like Barclays have legal and regulatory obligations it must 
comply with. To meet these, banks must regularly review its customer accounts. 
Sometimes this can lead to an account being restricted 
- Barclays has correctly followed its internal procedures when reviewing and restricting 
Xs account. And it hasnt done anything incorrectly by doing so
- There isnt any evidence to support Xs claim that Barclays acted in this way because 
it held a grudge against Xs partner 
- Barclays doesnt have to give its reasons for reviewing and restricting Xs account
- Barclays was wrong to close Xs account with immediate effect - contrary to the 
terms of the account
- There wasnt anything to show X was entitled to have the account based on their 
previous vocation 
- Barclays is entitled to decide who it offers accounts to, so our investigator cant 
recommend the account is re-opened
- Its most likely Xs partner misheard the name of the member of staff whom X says 
deliberately changed their name tag
- Its likely X was told different things about the availability of the branch manager. But 
they had not seen any evidence to show this was done intentionally. And, that this 
significantly impacted X given it had no impact on the review of the account and 
returning of funds
- Its possible the staff member sought advice and guidance from another member of 
staff regards the council tax bill and Barclays processes and procedures related to 
identification. This may have caused some delay, but it isnt an error on Barclays part
- Generally, its good practice to count out cash provided by a bank  whether a 
receipts been provided or not. X hasnt been significantly impacted by having to 
count the funds while in branch 
- Although Barclays should have given 60 days notice of its intention to close the 
account, its decision to do so sooner didnt have a significant impact on X as the 
account had only been open for short time
- Even if Barclays had failed to return calls as promised, our investigator didnt see 
anything justifying Barclays pay further compensation
- Overall, the £350 Barclays has already offered, or paid, is reasonable compensation 
for what Barclays did wrong
X was unhappy with what our investigator said. Amongst other things, X says: 
- Its not reason enough that Barclays didnt give them 60 days notice because the 
account was new 
- No mention is made of the nature of who the funds belonged to 
- X did not receive a notice of closure letter from Barclays in June 2020
- The council tax letter issue wasnt considered when Barclays made its offer of 
compensation 
- Refusing to count cash and handing it over without a receipt isnt official protocol nor 
professional behaviour  
- They believe a handful of Barclays branch staff harbour deep rooted grudges and 
suffer from long-standing psychological issues which have been exacerbated by the 
pandemic 
- Historical issues X has had with Barclays since the 1980s and its resulting behaviour 
requires remedial action 
I must now decide this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Xs complaint. I know this will disappoint X.  
I can see how strongly X feels about their complaint - so Ill explain why.
Account review and closure 
The investigator was right to point out that Barclays has important legal and regulatory
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened.
To comply with its obligations, Barclays may need to review an account and/or restrict itscustomers access. If Barclays didnt comply with its obligations it could risk serious
sanction. In order to meet these requirements Barclays is entitled to ask a customer for
more information about how they use their account, including payments which are made into
an account.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances
for Barclays to block Xs account and ask them for information relating to activity on their 
account. So, whilst I accept this matter would have caused X distress and inconvenience, I 
cant say Barclays treated them unfairly when it blocked their account. 
Ive next considered if Barclays acted fairly by closing Xs account, and by doing so with 
immediate effect. 
I note X has been provided with the relevant part of the account terms that apply to Barclays 
closing an account. Having carefully considered these myself, and the reasons behind 
Barclays decision to close the account, Im persuaded, in the circumstances of this 
complaint, that Barclays acted wrongly in giving immediate notice to X to close the account. 
This means Barclays should have given X 60 days notice that it would be closing the 
account  and not, that it was doing so immediately. Our investigator said because the 
account was relatively new, the account being closed in this way had little impact on X. X 
doesnt agree with this and says no consideration has been made to who the money 
belonged to. 
Im aware of what X has said about the ownership of the money. But Im also of the mind the 
early closure of the account did not substantively impact X to the extent that further 
compensation, to that which Barclays has already offered, is needed. 
I say that because, I cant see from the statements Barclays have given me, that there were 
any direct debits or standing orders established on the account. So X didnt need to make 
alternative provision for these nor would they have incurred any fees for late payment. 
Also, X has talked about receiving a pension, but this wasnt paid into this account. Because 
of that I think its most likely X had access to funds in the form of another bank account  and 
most likely carried out their main banking activities there. 
I note X says they didnt receive the closure letter from Barclays dated 12 June 2020. Ive 
seen a copy of this letter and its addressed correctly based on the details we hold about X 
at this service. Having said that, I havent seen any evidence from Barclays that conclusively 
shows this letter was sent. But I dont think that matters. Thats because Barclays wrote to X 
on the 17 June 2020, and explained what X needed to do to withdraw their remaining funds. 
Xs bank statement shows the money was withdrawn on 17 June 2020. 
So there wasnt a substantive delay caused. And in any event, the notice of closure letter 
didnt say X could withdraw all their funds  only any wages or benefits paid into them. Xs 
payments into their Barclays account were through the ASD machine. So even if they didnt 
receive the notice of closure letter, this hasnt caused any real detriment for me to think 
about.     
As Ive alluded to, Barclays is required to comply with a wide range of law and regulation, 
including the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook and various pieces of primary 
and secondary legislations. Most of these regulatory requirements apply to all UK banks and 
other financial service providers. Barclays is subject to these legal and regulatory 
requirements.Barclays is under no legal obligation that Im aware of which requires it to give the exact
basis for its actions. Because of that I wont be revealing its exact justification in my decision. 
In any event, had Barclays closed Xs account by giving 60 days notice, this would have 
been done so in line with its terms and conditions. Ultimately, Barclays has commercial 
discretion with who it chooses to do business with - in the same way X has a choice with 
whom it banks with. 
I would like X to know our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains
information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive
information.
Some of the information Barclays has provided is information I consider should be kept
confidential.
Customer service 
Barclays accepts it got some things wrong, and to put things right it offered X £350 for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused. In making this award, Barclays say it considered: 
- the review exceeding the agreed timescales 
- It should have given more than 60 days notice of closure and not closed the account 
immediately 
- placing and then removing any internal marker on Barclays systems 
- incorrectly asking for proof of funds given the money was deposited by cash 
- poor customer service and alleged behaviour of branch staff 
Ive also been provided with a statement from the branch manager about the complaint 
points X raised against its staff. 
X says Barclays staff member deliberately obfuscated, and mislead them, by changing their 
name tags. I note X recalls a similar name to the actual one. Its possible because of that, X 
or their partner misheard this. I cant of course conclusively say this is what happened based 
on the limited evidence I have. Where that happens, I can decide what I think is most likely 
to have happened  the balance of probabilities. 
So, with that in mind, I think its likely X misheard or even misread the name tag of the branch 
member.  
X says another bank nearby was found to be carrying out such activity to mislead its 
customers. X has also given more detail around this and the investigation that ensued. I 
dont doubt what X is telling me. But I cant place any real weight on this, as it relates to a 
separate business and so doesnt have any direct correlation on the actions of Barclays and 
its staff in relation to Xs complaint. 
I accept X may have been told conflicting information about the presence of the manager by 
branch staff. But I havent seen anything that suggests this was done with a deliberate or 
malicious intention. I also dont see how not getting to speak to the manager would have 
made any difference to what happened overall. Decisions about account reviews, closures 
and return of funds are generally made outside of the branch by separate departments.  
X says Barclays staff were difficult and caused further delay by getting a manager to check 
whether the council tax bill was enough to satisfy its identification requirements. The branch 
manager says it has identification regulations and processes to follow which the staff member wanted to check with a manager. Based on this, I dont think Barclays acted 
unreasonably nor caused unavoidable delay. 
X isnt happy a staff member handed over the closing balance without a receipt and refused 
to count it. X says this isnt official protocol nor professional behaviour. The branch manager 
says to avoid X having to re-join the queue, the branch member went to the counting room 
and got the closing balance for X. The manager isnt sure why a receipt wasnt given.   
I can understand why X isnt happy about this. But it appears the measure Barclays took was 
to reduce any further inconvenience to X. And, most importantly, X isnt complaining they 
werent given the correct amount of money. So, even if Barclays have failed to do something 
it ought to have, I cant see how X has lost out. 
Lastly, I have given some thought to what X says about Barclays branch staff harbouring a 
long-standing, and deep-rooted grudge against them. This is a serious allegation - one that 
suggests a targeted campaign of prejudice and discrimination over 40 years. So, Id like to 
assure X that I havent taken it lightly. 
Having said that, I havent seen any evidence which shows Barclays have behaved in this 
way nor that it has treated X differently to others. I cant of course be certain about this, but 
with the evidence I have, I cant say Barclays did. 
Given what Ive said above about the service X says it received, and what Barclays have 
already considered as appropriate redress for its service failings, Im not persuaded Barclays 
needs to do anything more than what it already has.  
So, after weighing everything up, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong when reviewing 
Xs account and placing restrictions on it. But I do think Barclays should have given X at 
least 60 days of its intention to close the account and not do so immediately. 
I also think Barclays has been reasonable in assessing its customer service failings and in 
awarding redress for the distress and inconvenience this caused X.  It follows that I wont be 
asking Barclays to do anything more than what it has done already. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should pay X £350 for the distress and inconvenience it caused, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Ketan Nagla 
Ombudsman
