DRN-2954385
Complaint
Mrs M has complained about a hire-purchase agreement that she entered into with Oplo CF 
Ltd (previously known as 1st Stop Car Finance Ltd). Shes says she couldnt afford the 
finance and so it shouldnt have been provided.
  
Background
In August 2016, Mrs M entered into a hire-purchase agreement with 1st Stop to purchase a 
car. The purchase price was £11,000.00. Mrs M paid a deposit of £1,300.50 and the 
remaining £9,699.50 was funded by a hire-purchase agreement with 1st Stop. The 
agreement had an annual percentage rate (APR) of 24.63% and was due to be repaid in 
47 monthly instalments of £304.47 and a final instalment, which included an option to 
purchase fee, of £479.27. This meant that the total charge for the credit was £5,089.86, and 
the total amount to be repaid, minus the deposit, was £14,789.36.  
In 2019, Mrs M complained that 1st Stop shouldnt have entered into this agreement with her 
as she couldnt afford the monthly payments. 1st Stop didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. It 
was satisfied that the agreement was affordable and said that Mrs M confirmed this was the 
case at the time. Mrs M remained dissatisfied and referred the complaint to us. 
Mrs Ms complaint was then considered by one of our investigators. He didnt think the 
checks carried out before the agreement was entered into were reasonable and 
proportionate. He also thought such checks would more likely than not have shown Mrs M 
couldnt afford the required monthly payments and so upheld the complaint. 1st Stop didnt 
agree, so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mrs Ms complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Ms complaint. These two 
questions are:
Did 1st Stop complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs M 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
oIf so, was a fair lending decision made?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mrs M wouldve been able to do so?
Did 1st Stop act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in some other way?
If I determine that 1st Stop did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs M and 
that she has lost out as a result, Ill go on to consider whats fair compensation.
Ill proceed to consider the first of the overarching questions.
Did 1st Stop complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs M would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
The regulations in place when 1st Stop lent to Mrs M required it to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of whether Mrs M could afford to make her repayments in a 
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
Any affordability checks should have been borrower-focused  so 1st Stop had to think 
about whether making the payments would cause difficulties or severe adverse 
consequences for Mrs M. In other words, it wasnt enough for 1st Stops lending decision to 
only consider the likelihood that it would get its money back, or that it had the ability to 
repossess the vehicle, without considering the impact making these payments would have 
on Mrs M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check generally ought to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a 
given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the 
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for a 
longer period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
should be for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, or any substantial 
time gaps between loans. Ive thought about all the relevant factors in this case.
1st Stops checks
1st stop says that it usually used an automated process to ensure it lent responsibly. 
Automated checks were conducted based on personal circumstances, employment status, 
salary, credit score, credit history, insolvency, overall active credit, County Court Judgments 
(CCJs) and debt collection searches. If this process showed no concerns an application 
would be automatically approved.However, Mrs Ms application wasnt auto approved as she didnt meet the criteria. So 1st 
Stop reverted to a manual process and additional checks were carried out on Mrs Ms 
income as the monthly payment would be taking up 15% of it. Mrs M was asked to provide a 
copy of her payslip and as this confirmed the income was as thought, the payments were 
less than 20% of Mrs Ms income and Mrs M also confirmed the payments were affordable 
the agreement was manually approved. 
Ive carefully thought about what 1st Stop has said. But simply obtaining information about a 
borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower focused 
assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan.
 
Im concerned that 1st Stop appears to have ignored an earnings arrestment that was 
showing on the payslip Mrs M provided. 1st Stop says it assumes that this was for a payday 
loan which had defaulted a number of years previously. But Mrs M has confirmed that this 
was for unpaid council tax. 
In any event, as a court order would have been required for an earnings arrestment 
suggesting Mrs M might have been experiencing difficulties, and Mrs M was being expected 
to pay around £300 a month for four years, I think that 1st Stop needed to do more to find 
out about Mrs Ms expenditure before lending. In my view, what 1st Stop did obtain about 
Mrs Ms circumstances meant that, in this case, it wasnt reasonable to proceed with the 
payments being affordable simply on the basis that they only took up 15% of her income.
So as well as asking Mrs M about the details of her income and carrying out credit checks, I 
think that 1st Stop needed to do more to verify Mrs Ms expenditure. It could have done this 
by asking for information such as bank statements or copies of bills. And when it obtained 
this information it needed to properly scrutinise it and ensure that Mrs M did have enough 
funds to be able to sustainably make the payments.
 
As I cant see that 1st Stop did do anything further to verify Mrs Ms expenditure, I find that it 
didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before entering into 
this hire purchase agreement with her.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not have shown that Mrs M 
was able to sustainably make the repayments to this agreement?
As proportionate checks werent carried out before this agreement was provided, I cant say 
for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely than not that 
a proportionate check would have told 1st Stop that it was unfair to enter into this agreement 
with Mrs M. 
Mrs M has provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she applied 
for the finance. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just 
because something shows up in the information Mrs M has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks 1st Stop mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from 1st Stop showing what this information would have 
shown, I think its perfectly fair and reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an 
indication of what Mrs Ms financial circumstances were more likely than not to have been at 
the time. To be clear, Ive not looked at Mrs Ms bank statements because I think that 1st 
Stop ought to have obtained them before lending to her. Ive consulted Mrs Ms bank 
statements because they were readily available at this stage and they contain the 
information I now need to reconstruct the proportionate check 1st Stop should have but 
failed to carry out. Mrs Ms bank statements show that she was receiving the salary set out on the requested 
payslip, which isnt unexpected. However, its clear that she was paying a significant 
proportion of the household costs. And when her share of the household expenditure which 
included rent, bills, school fees and other living expenses are deducted from her monthly 
income, this simply didnt leave her enough to make the monthly repayments to this 
agreement. And this isnt even taking into account other reasonable associated running 
costs for the vehicle such as petrol, tax and insurance. 
In these circumstances, Im satisfied that Mrs M simply didnt have the funds necessary to 
make the monthly payments to this agreement, without her borrowing further or it having a 
significant adverse impact on her financial position. 
So overall and having carefully considered everything, I think that reasonable and 
proportionate checks would have alerted 1st Stop to the fact that Mrs M simply wasnt able 
to sustainably make the payments to this agreement. And so it follows that she wasnt in a 
position to take on this commitment.     
Did 1st Stop act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude 1st Stop acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in some 
other way.  
So I find that 1st Stop didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in some other way.  
Conclusions
Overall and having thought about the two overarching questions, set out on pages 1 and 2 of 
this decision, I find that:
1st Stop didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mrs M to satisfy 
itself that she was able to make the payments to this agreement; 
reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown Mrs M 
was not in a financial position to make the repayments on this hire-purchase 
agreement without it having a significant adverse impact on her financial position or 
her borrowing further;
1st Stop didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way towards Mrs M; 
The above findings leave me reaching the overall conclusion that 1st Stop unfairly and 
unreasonably entered into this hire-purchase agreement with Mrs M.
Did Mrs M lose out as a result of 1st Stops shortcomings?
Ive considered whether Mrs M suffered adverse consequences as a result of 1st Stop 
unfairly entering into this hire purchase agreement with her. As Mrs M was required to pay a 
significant amount of interest fees and charges as a result of being provided with 
unaffordable credit, Im satisfied she lost out because of what 1st Stop did wrong.
So overall and having thought about everything provided and whats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of this case, I find that Mrs M lost out because 1st Stop unfairly 
entered into a hire-purchase agreement, which it ought to have realised was not affordable 
for her, with her. And this means I think that 1st Stop needs to put things right.  
Fair compensation  what 1st Stop needs to do to put things right for Mrs M
I understand that Mrs M sold the vehicle and used the proceeds to settle the agreement. It is 
unclear whether she sold the vehicle privately or whether this was done by some kind of 
arrangement with the dealer that initially sold the vehicle to her. Notwithstanding this, the 
payments Mrs M made and the amount Mrs M paid to settle the agreement would have 
included interest, fees and charges which she shouldnt have paid. 
As this is the case, I think that it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mrs Ms 
complaint for 1st Stop to put things right by:
deducting all the payments Mrs M made (including the deposit and the final amount 
paid to settle the agreement) from the £11,000.00 purchase price. 1st Stop should 
treat any payments made over and above the purchase price of the vehicle as 
overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mrs M;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
made by Mrs M to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file as a result of this 
agreement.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 1st Stop to take off tax from this interest. 1st Stop must 
give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Oplo CF Ltd should put 
things right in the way that Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman