DRN-4354230
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy with the decision by Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) following a 
claim on her home insurance policy.
Fairmead is the underwriter of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of the 
agents involved in the claim. Fairmead has accepted it is accountable for the actions of 
agents involved in the claim. In my decision, any reference to a company instructed during 
the claims process, unless instructed by Miss F, includes Fairmead. 
What happened
Miss F held a home insurance policy with Fairmead. The exclusions part of Miss Fs policy 
explained the policy would not cover Any loss, damage or liability arising from wear and tear 
or damage that happens gradually over time. 
In October 2021 Miss Fs home was affected by flooding which resulted in an external wall 
and the kitchen area being damaged, and the basement being flooded. Following notification 
of the claim to Fairmead, Fairmead arranged for a third party (company S) to assess the 
claim and determine the cause of damage. 
Company S attended to Miss Fs home but couldnt determine the cause of damage. It was 
concluded that We suggest that further investigations are undertaken to confirm whether the 
lead flashing is defective, or there is another source of the water ingress that is considered 
an insured peril.
 
Company S instructed company B to review and document the items in Miss Fs basement. 
During this process, while sorting the items, company B handled both the contaminated and 
non-contaminated items at the same time, and these were also stored together in the 
basement. Miss F complained to company S about the impact on her health because of the 
way these items had been handled and stored in her home.
 
As in interim measure company S agreed for company B to arrange for storage of Miss Fs 
items at an external storage location.
 
Company S instructed company D (a company specialising in leak detection) to provide a 
report on how the water had entered Miss Fs home. This report stated We carried out a 
camera inspection of the exterior and in doing so we observed the window frame seals in 
poor condition and cracking to the external render on the external wall. 
Company D completed a building report following inspection of Ms Fs home. The findings of 
this report recorded:
-A historic repair is evident under the first-floor window, and historic crack repairs are 
visible through the paint. A hairline crack runs between the vulnerable points of the 
first floor and ground floor window openings, and meets at a fixing point for an 
external security light, the crack was historically repaired, and it is probable that the 
vibration and penetration of the fixing of the security light (albeit some years 
previous), has opened the crack or even initially caused the stress for its 
development.  
-The electrical cable for the security light penetrates the render without a gland box.
-At the first floor windowsill, localised render failure is visible. 
-Internally, moisture is present at the kitchen window, particularly concentrated at the 
window head. The plaster in this area is generally soft and deteriorated through 
periodic and prolonged saturation. The moisture content gradually becomes less 
away from the window head.
-Applied to a localised area of the [basement] is an area of (presumed) bitumen which 
is worn in areas through to the original concrete. Bitumen is a wet applied solution 
and was often used as a DPM [damp proof measure] before modern techniques were 
adopted as building products advanced during the recent decades. No form of DPM 
has been determined elsewhere.
Following assessment of Miss Fs claim in January 2022 company S informed Miss F that 
the damage to the external wall and kitchen area would not be covered because of the 
exclusion for wear and tear.
 
Miss F was told a claim would be accepted for the damage caused by flooding to the 
basement under both the building and contents section of her policy. Company S said it 
would agree to cover the cost of cleaning Miss Fs basement, and drying of the basement to 
return moisture levels to a pre-incident level. 
For the contents claim, the beyond economic repair (BER) items would be disposed of, and 
the remaining items would either be returned, or be restored first, and then returned.
Miss F was unhappy with companys S decision on her claim. Miss F was particularly 
concerned with the decision to reject her claim for damage to the external wall and kitchen 
area. Miss F also complained about items missing from the list provided to her showing 
items held in storage with company B.
 
Miss B instructed her own loss assessor (company O) to deal with the claim on her behalf. 
But she later didnt agree with company Os findings. Company B attended Miss Fs home to 
complete a clean of her basement in May. Miss F complained that cleaning of her basement 
hadnt been done properly, and she wasnt happy with the general handling of her claim. 
In July Fairmead wrote to Miss F explaining that the work to the basement was complete and 
no further work would be carried out in line with the policy terms. In particular Miss F was 
informed that the basement did not have a damp proof membrane before the incident I 
confirm we are not able to agree to apply a liquid DMP to the full floor/lower walls. The 
Surveyor further confirmed there were no other claim related reinstatement works required. 
Miss F was also told that in order to settle her contents claim she would need to agree the 
items to be disposed of, restored, and returned. Miss F was sent a cheque for £200 in 
recognition of parts of the claim that hadnt been dealt with properly. 
Miss F remained concerned with the information provided about her items that were held in 
storage, and that there were still items missing from the list shared with her. She was also 
unhappy with the declined parts of her claim, including parts of her basement relating to 
cleaning and decoration. Miss F said there had been holes left in kitchen wall that had been 
caused by company S when completing their investigation into the cause of damage. 
In November 2022 Miss F received a response to her complaint as follows:Buildings claim
- The only room Miss Fs policy would cover under her claim was the basement. The 
scope of this claim was limited to cleaning and drying the basement- no repairs had 
been authorised. 
- In an attempt to settle the claim Fairmead said it would pay the for damage to the 
basement stairs at the cost provided by [Miss F) at £680.00.  
- Fairmead also explained We can also consider the cost to you of repairing the holes 
in the kitchen that you have previously referenced. 
Contents claim
- Once liability was accepted company B was instructed to restore any items that had 
been affected that were not BER.
-We have then offered a settlement for the BER items of £10,707.40.
-In addition to this there is a settlement for the carpet Therefore, our final stance on 
the contents settlement offer is £10,707.40 (BER items) plus £719.88 (carpet) 
totalling £11,427.28. As advised we are happy to review an updated carpet quote as 
the previous has expired.
Fairmead also offered a further £100 in recognition of parts of the claim that couldve been 
better handled, including the contents claim where BER items were incorrectly stored 
alongside other items in Miss Fs home. 
Miss F was unhappy with this decision, and so brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation. 
The investigator found that Fairmead had acted fairly in reaching their decision on Miss Fs 
claim overall, and that the £300 offered was reasonable compensation in recognition of what 
had gone wrong, and the impact on Miss F.
 
Miss F didnt agree with the investigators findings saying (amongst other things) that full and 
final settlement for her claim has not been fairly calculated. Miss F said I have returned an 
email back to [company S] with a final settlement offer of £19.500 to include the wall repair in 
the kitchen, redecoration of the tidemarks in the basement, missing items of content not 
calculated, content list, carpet replacement.
I issued my provisional decision on 30 August 2023 saying that I uphold this complaint. In 
that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided.
Declined claim for external wall and kitchen area
Miss F feels strongly that company S have treated her unfairly by rejecting her claim for the 
external wall and kitchen area. I thank Miss F for taking the time to explain her personal 
circumstances and everything thats happened since the flooding of her basement in 
October 2021. I understand it has been a difficult time for Miss F.  When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. So Ive 
considered the evidence to determine whether Fairmead have acted fairly and reasonably in 
reaching their decision on Miss Fs claim.    
Miss F says that the damage to her external wall and kitchen area has been caused as a 
direct result of her home being flooded. Fairmead maintain that the independent experts 
instructed on the claim have all provided similar findings which do not support what Miss F 
has explained about the damage being covered by her policy. 
When evidence is contradictory or inconclusive (or both) I have to make a finding on the 
balance of probabilities. That is what I find is most likely to have happened in view of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Ive considered the reports provided by the independent experts instructed to review Miss 
Fs claim and determine the cause of damage to the areas impacted by flooding. On 
balance, having considered the findings of all three independent experts, including company 
S, company D (a company specialising in leak detection), and Miss Fs own loss assessor, 
company O, I dont think the evidence supports Miss F assertion that these parts of her 
claim should be covered.  
Like most insurance policies, Miss Fs doesnt provide cover for exclusions listed within the 
policy. Ive seen that Miss F policy does not cover Any loss, damage or liability arising from 
wear and tear or damage that happens gradually over time. While Miss F feels strongly that 
the external wall and kitchen area was damaged directly because of the flood conditions 
present at the time, the evidence Ive seen is more consistent with the cause of damage 
being an wear and tear or damage that happens gradually over time, and not flood damage. 
Company D completed an independent inspection and its own report found numerous 
issues. Their findings reported historic crack repairs, and explained plaster in this area is 
generally soft and deteriorated through periodic and prolonged saturation. Im satisfied 
these issues were likely made worse by the flooding incident in October 2021, but I dont 
think the evidence supports that the flooding incident was the cause of them. 
Although Miss F feels strongly that the evidence from her own independent loss assessor, 
company O, should be disregarded, Im satisfied that it also agreed on the scope of the claim 
that should be covered by Fairmead, and that this didnt include damage to the external wall 
and kitchen area. 
Having considered the findings of three different experts instructed on Miss Fs claim, the 
evidence supports Fairmeads position to decline the claim for the external wall and kitchen 
area as the damage claimed for these parts of the claim go deeper than what would likely be 
cause by an incident of flooding. 
I appreciate that this will come as a great disappointment to Miss F. But insurance policies 
do not cover every eventuality, and this is one of those circumstances, where the damage 
isnt covered by the policy. I cant say that Fairmead have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining Miss Fs claim. Because of this, I wont be asking Fairmead to do anything in 
settlement of this part of Miss Fs complaint. 
  
Additional repairs to basement and holes in kitchen wall
Miss F feels strongly that additional repairs and paintwork are required to her basement in 
order to bring it back to the condition it was in before it was damaged by the flooding incident. Miss F has referenced the wall repair in the kitchen, redecoration of the tidemarks 
in the basement carpet replacement.
Miss F has referred to redecoration of the tidemarks in the basement. Ive considered Miss 
Fs policy terms alongside the damage caused to Miss Fs basement. Im persuaded that the 
scope of work Fairmead agreed to cover (limited to the cleaning and drying to pre-incident 
level) is reasonable in light of the claim circumstances. I note Miss Fs own loss assessor 
also agreed to the scope of work to be completed in the basement in line with the policy 
terms, and this did not include redecoration of the basement. Fairmead has acted 
reasonably in declining cover for this part of Miss Fs claim. So I wont be directing any 
further payment is made for additional repairs to the basement. (It is unclear whether 
Fairmead has since agreed to cover the cost of painting the basement, as part of any recent 
agreement to increase their settlement offer. If this payment has been agreed, it should be 
honoured). 
In respect of the damage to the kitchen walls, and replacing the carpet in the basement, 
Fairmead have already accepted this part of Miss Fs claim as a way of resolving the claim. 
Fairmead have set out what Miss F would need to do to progress this part of her claim. I 
think Fairmeads actions are fair in response to the damage to the kitchen walls, and 
replacing the carpet in the basement. I will be asking Fairmead to complete the actions 
theyve agreed to (following evidence from Miss F as requested) as part of my overall 
direction to put things right for Miss Fs complaint.  
Contents claims
Miss Fs complaint about her contents claim is in two parts. 
Firstly Miss F says the full contents claims list doesnt include all of her items. Mrs F says the 
BER list shared with her to date has been incomplete, and inaccurate. Because of this, there 
has yet to be agreement of items to be disposed of, returned, or be restored first, and then 
returned.
Throughout the duration of this claim Mrs F has been sent several amended versions of the 
BER list for review and approval. I understand that Mrs F has remained unhappy with the 
BER list sent to her on each occasion. But I feel that reasonable attempt has been made by 
company S to try and address Miss Fs concerns, and progress her claim to the point of 
finalising her contents claim. 
Mrs F is concerned about accepting items back that might potentially cause harm to health. 
But I dont think it would be reasonable for Fairmead to hold on to Mrs Fs items indefinitely. 
Should any issues arise following the return of Mrs Fs items to her, Mrs F will need to raise 
these with Fairmead to investigate in line with their complaints process. 
The second part of Mrs Fs contents claim complaint concerns the cross contamination of 
her items. Miss F says that company B are responsible for the cross contamination of her 
items because of the way that they were handled and stored. Fairmead have agreed that 
this wasnt done properly, and extra care shouldve been taken when dealing with Mrs Fs 
items- especially as she had specifically requested this given her health conditions. 
I am persuaded by what Mrs F has explained about informing company S to take care when 
handling her items. Because this wasnt done Mrs F had to reach out to company S on 
several occasions to complain about the impact on her health, and the toll on her well-being. 
Although Fairmead have offered £300 compensation overall (including compensation for 
other areas of poor service). I am minded to increase this by £300, making total 
compensation £600. Although we cant be certain of the long-term health impact on Mrs F, I am persuaded that 
she was caused upset and frustration by Fairmeads failure to take proper care despite her 
request for items to be stored separately. This was further compounded by Mrs F being 
required to stay at home because of the pandemic. Mrs F was left to stay in her home, a 
place which she should feel safe in, but wasnt able to. This was primarily because of the 
way her items had been stored, and her concern for her well-being. I have addressed this 
compensation as part of my overall direction to put things right for Miss Fs complaint.  
Customer service and delays on claim 
Miss F has also complained about the level of service provided while company S were 
dealing with her claim. Miss F has referred to several occasions where she tried to call 
company S but couldnt reach them. Shes also unhappy with the long periods of delay in 
dealing with her claim. 
Ive considered the timescales from the date of incident on 19 October 2021 to the date Mrs 
F was told what her claim would and would not cover in January 2022. In the early stages of 
the claim, before the claim outcome was explained, Im persuaded the actions taken to 
progress Mrs Fs claim were broadly reasonable. During this time company S inspected the 
damage to determine the cause of the leak. When this couldnt be confirmed, company D (a 
company specialising in leak detection), was instructed to provide an independent 
professional opinion. Following this report, Mrs F was informed of the outcome of her claim 
(albeit one she didnt agree with).
I can appreciate what Mrs F has explained about having to repeat the circumstances of her 
claim several times to company S, including the impact on her health. It is evident the 
relationship between company S and Mrs F broke down during the claims process. But in 
considering the length of the claim, I dont think it would be fair to hold company S entirely 
responsible for the time its taken for the claim to progress.  
One of the main reasons for the claim not concluding is the disagreement between Mrs F 
and company S about Mrs Fs contents claim. I have already explained my findings on this, 
and would add that I think company S have made reasonable attempts to finalise the BER 
list with Miss F. 
I appreciate Miss F feels strongly that company S failed to reach out to her when they 
shouldve done, and communications were often delayed. From the evidence Ive seen, 
issues raised by Miss F were answered (albeit not always with the response Miss F was 
looking for). Its also not unusual for there to be periods of negotiation and assessment while 
a claim of this complexity is being considered. It is evident that Miss F was seeking faster 
resolution of her claim, but I dont think the lack of progress has been caused by company S 
handling of the claim. So I wont be directing any additional compensation for this aspect of 
Miss Fs complaint. 
Miss F says the compensation awarded doesnt reflect the stress caused to her. I think Miss 
F is ultimately unhappy with the outcome of her claim in respect of the damage to her 
kitchen and outside wall area. As this isnt covered by the policy I cant hold company S 
responsible for the upset caused to Miss F by their decision not to pay for this part of Miss F 
claim. I think the compensation already offered fairly recognises the impact on Miss F by 
what went wrong with the handling of the claim, but also that the outcome of the claim 
remains unchanged.  
putting things right
During our involvement Miss F advised that Fairmead increased their offer to £13,100. I 
havent had any details of the breakdown for this, and what it relates to. 
For avoidance of further delay I have set out my intended recommendation to put things right 
below. I will await a response to this provisional decision to finalise what Fairmead Insurance 
Company Limited needs to do. 
Fairmead Insurance Company Limited must:
1) Pay the contents settlement offer of £10,707.40 as detailed in the final response 
letter of November 2022 (if not already paid);
2) Pay for the cost of repair of the basement stairs (subject to receiving a reasonable 
quote from Miss F for this repair work);
3) Pay for the cost of repairing holes in the kitchen (subject to receiving a reasonable 
quote from Miss F for this repair work); and 
4) Pay for the cost of replacement carpet (subject to receiving a reasonable quote from 
Miss F for this work); and
5) Pay £600 (£200 as per final response letter of July 2022, if not already paid. £100 as 
per final response letter of November 2022, if not already paid. And a further £300 in 
recognition of the impact on Mrs F for incorrectly storing contaminated and non-
contaminated items). 
Responses
Miss F and Fairmead Insurance Company Limited accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, it remains unchanged. 
Putting things right
Fairmead Insurance Company Limited must:
1) Pay the contents settlement offer of £10,707.40 as detailed in the final response 
letter of November 2022 (if not already paid);
2) Pay for the cost of repair of the basement stairs (subject to receiving a reasonable 
quote from Miss F for this repair work);
3) Pay for the cost of repairing holes in the kitchen (subject to receiving a reasonable 
quote from Miss F for this repair work); and
4) Pay for the cost of replacement carpet (subject to receiving a reasonable quote from 
Miss F for this work); and
5) Pay £600 (£200 as per final response letter of July 2022, if not already paid. £100 as 
per final response letter of November 2022, if not already paid. And a further £300 in 
recognition of the impact on Mrs F for incorrectly storing contaminated and non-
contaminated items). 
My final decision
For the reasons provided my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Fairmead Insurance Company Limited must follow my directions above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman