DRN-2194581
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc blocked his account after he received an incoming 
payment. Santander asked him to provide identification documents in branch. Mr M would 
like to know why the account was blocked. He would like £500 compensation and interest on 
the funds for the period he couldnt access them. 
What happened
Mr M had an account with Santander.
On 8 July 2019 he contacted Santander to request that a payment for £156,153.69 he had 
received into his account be returned back to the sending bank. The money was from a fixed 
rate deposit that had matured.
Following this conversation Mr Ms account was blocked. He was asked by Santander to go 
into branch with identification in order to unblock the account.
Mr M wanted to reinvest the £156,153.69 into another fixed rate deposit and wrote a cheque. 
As the account was blocked the cheque was not processed.
Mr M was unable to go into branch. He has told us he had a knee injury, he has also said 
that going into branch was a waste of his time as it would take too long. He said he wanted 
Santander to give him £200 compensation and expenses if he were to go into branch. 
Santander refused this.
Mr M says there was no valid reason to block his account and he always passed security. 
And he wants an explanation why his online banking was blocked. Mr M thinks the real 
reason for the block was because Mr M had criticised Santanders branch network.
Mr M wanted Santander to attend his house to verify his identity, he also suggested that they 
should do a video call to verify his identity. Mr M has said Santander refused to honour the 
cheque that he signed and matched his signature.
Mr M complained to Santander, Santander didnt uphold the complaint they said they were 
unable to do home visits, they offered £30 to cover travel costs to the branch. Santander 
said that the restrictions on the account were placed because of concerns of impersonation 
or unusual account activity.
Mr M was unhappy with Santanders response, so he complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said Santander were entitled to review 
the account in line with its legal and regulatory obligations and the terms and conditions and 
they werent obliged to give Mr M reasons for their decision. He said Santander were entitled 
to block the account until they were satisfied regarding Mr Ms identity. 
Mr M was unhappy with the view he said: 
There was nothing to suggest the payment wasnt genuine and couldnt see how 
asking for ID would clarify this. 
Direct debits continued to be paid out but not standing orders. Blocking standing 
orders was unreasonable and caused him loss.
Santander confirmed Mr M had passed security, so he doesnt understand why the 
account was blocked.
Large amounts being deposited and leaving his account were not unusual activity for 
his account.
Santander could have blocked those funds without blocking the whole account.
Mr M doesnt think he signed up to terms and conditions when he opened the 
account and he has not been provided with them. He has now been provided with 
them but doesnt think they entitle Santander to block the account.
No notice and no valid reason was given for the blocking of his account
Mr M passed security when he called Santander on multiple occasions so verifying 
his identity. He doesnt understand why this wasnt sufficient to unblock the account.
Mr M was able to visit a branch with his ID on the 18 October 2019 and the stop was 
removed from the account on that day.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
Review and blocking of the account
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Ms account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. Having looked at the evidence I am satisfied that 
this is what Santander was doing when it reviewed and blocked Mr Ms account. I am also 
satisfied that Santander would have lifted the block sooner had Mr M gone into branch with 
his ID so it could be verified. 
Mr M has said that he receives large amounts into his account regularly and large amounts 
leave his account and therefore this isnt unusual activity for him. So, doesnt know why 
Santander decided to block his account. Mr M has mentioned that he passed security on 
numerous occasions thus proving it was him, so he doesnt understand why Santander 
werent satisfied by this. 
I appreciate Mr M found this whole episode frustrating, but Santander are entitled to carry 
out reviews of their customers accounts and to review specific payments under regulations 
and the terms of the account.
Mr M has said he didnt sign any terms when he opened the account. However, Santanders 
accounts are subject to their terms and conditions and these allow the bank to review accounts and block payments. Mr M has been provided with the account terms which were 
in force at the time he opened his account. He didnt have to sign anything but in opening the 
account he agreed to the terms. 
Mr M has said that Santander could have verified his identity through a home visit or a video 
conference call. I have seen evidence that Santander tried to see if a home visit was viable, 
but they were unable to carry one out. I am satisfied that Santander explored different ways 
of confirming Mr Ms identity instead of asking him to attend the branch. I can see Santander 
tried to move things forward by making a contribution of £30 towards the cost of him 
attending branch. I know Mr M had asked for compensation of £200 to attend the branch but 
had Mr M used the £30 to go to the branch with his ID documents its likely Santander would 
have unblocked the account. I say this because the evidence shows Santander unblocked 
the account as soon as Mr M attended branch with his documentation in October 2019. I 
therefore think Mr M has contributed to the delay in the release of his funds and hasnt 
mitigated his losses. So, on balance, I cant say that Santander have done anything wrong 
here and I wont be asking them to do anything else.
Mr M has said that he doesnt understand why some payments were blocked but not others.  
I appreciate that it may seem illogical that some payments were allowed to go through. The 
bank is entitled to decide on a case by case basis which payments it allows and which it 
blocks.
Reasons for the bock on the account
Mr M has said he wants to know why the account was blocked without any notice and the 
reason for blocking the account. Santander isnt required to give Mr M specific reasons for 
blocking the account. So, I cant say Santander has done anything wrong by not giving Mr M 
this information  as much as hed like to know.
Mr M has said that the reason for the block is that Santander were unhappy with his 
comments regarding their branches. Having looked at the information provided I have seen 
no evidence that this is the case.
In summary, I recognise Mr M feels unhappy about the blocking of the account. I realise hell 
be disappointed by my decision, but overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say 
Santander have acted unreasonably and treated Mr M unfairly when they blocked his 
account and required him to attend branch with his ID. 
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman