DRN-3769951
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus 
(APS) treated it unfairly during its time of financial difficulty. 
S is represented by its director, Mr M, but for the purposes of this decision, I will refer to S. 
What happened
In July 2019, S entered into a credit card agreement with APS for a business account. It had 
a credit limit of £1,000.
In March 2020, S told APS it was experiencing financial difficulty due to the impact of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. APS agreed to a credit freeze on the account for 45 days.
For several months thereafter, S contacted APS to provide an update as to its financial 
circumstances but unfortunately it hadnt changed and it wasnt trading. On each occasion, 
APS agreed to extend the credit freeze with the last one being in February 2021.
In April 2021, S complained the credit facility had been removed. The outstanding balance 
was around £950. APS said they had provided a number of credit freezes but as the 
financial difficulties continued, they decided to remove the credit limit in January 2021. They 
said this was part of their duty as a responsible lender.  
Dissatisfied with their response, S referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They found APS had justified concerns about Ss 
ability to pay the balance and they had acted in line with the terms. S disagreed.
In October 2022, I issued my provisional decision outlining my intentions not to uphold the 
complaint. I said 
I wish to stress Im considering the circumstances of S. As a limited company its a separate 
legal entity. I appreciate Mr M provided information and evidence about his circumstances 
including his health and Im sorry to hear he has been going through a difficult time. However 
for the purposes of this decision, I must base my findings on S.
There is no dispute S experienced financial difficulty as result of the pandemic, I understand 
that wouldve been a difficult time. Unlike individual consumers, there were no guidelines set 
by the financial regulator about what firms should do when business customers were 
negatively impacted by the pandemic. That said, I would expect firms to treat their business 
customers fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
In this case, Im satisfied APS done so. I say this because they agreed to freeze the account 
for 45 days and this was extended on several occasions. The freeze applied from March 
2020 to February 2021. APS said payments werent taken, interest was suspended and the 
credit facility was temporarily suspended. As I would expect, during that time APS asked 
about Ss financial circumstances including its incoming and outgoing expenses. Having 
done so, it determined S had no disposable income which is why they agreed to extend the 
credit freeze. Given these circumstances and the length of time the freeze was in place, Im 
satisfied APS acted fairly to assist S in its time of financial difficulty. However I wouldve 
expected them to have made it clear to S that the credit facility would be temporarily 
suspended while the freeze was in place but there is no evidence they did during the calls.
Such support is unlikely to last indefinitely. In this case, around April 2021 APS told S that 
the credit limit had been removed. S believed APS took this course of action because it had 
hadnt updated it after 45 days. APS said given the length of the credit freeze, their internal 
processes and as their duty as a responsible lender, they decided this course of action was 
fair. Theyve relied on the following term to support their decision:
If information comes to Our attention which in Our opinion casts doubt on Your ability to 
repay to Us what You owe then We may prevent You from drawing down further amounts 
under this agreement and may immediately suspend Your use of the Account. Subject to 
Our obligation to use reasonable forbearance if You are experiencing financial difficulty, the 
Balance Outstanding will become payable in full upon expiry of 21 days from the date of any 
default notice that We send to You. In such circumstances You will no longer be liable to pay 
to Us any further interest
Here, S were unable to make payments for around a year. I consider that a significant period 
of time. Despite the assistance provided by APS as outlined above, Ss financial 
circumstances hadnt change and it had no disposable income. As there was no indication it 
could resume making payments and to do so in a reasonable period of time, I can 
understand why APS had doubt about Ss ability to make repayments. On that basis, I find 
APS acted fairly and in line with the above term in suspending the use of the account rather 
than let the debt accrue, especially as the balance was approaching the credit limit. I dont 
find its because S didnt provide an update after 45 days.
APS has told our service it has ended the agreement. The decision to lend or in this case, to 
continue lending is a commercial one. Its up to APS to decide what services it offers, if any. 
Its not something our service would generally interfere with. Businesses arent obliged to 
give reasons for account closures but where they do decide to do so, they are expected to 
let the customer know.
APS terms say:
We have the right to terminate this agreement at any time, by giving You at least 60 days 
notice. If We serve You such notice, You must repay the Balance Outstanding in accordance 
with the terms of this agreement and the agreement will not formally end until You have 
repaid the Balance Outstanding.
This means APS can close the accounts as long as it gives at least 60 days notice however 
there is no evidence of such correspondence, nor does the systems notes theyve provided 
indicate the same. As part of my investigation, Ive requested an update as to the status of 
the account as there is conflicting information as to whether the agreement has formally 
ended with the account closed or it remains suspended. Ive asked for clarity and further 
evidence from APS including evidence of them letting S know of their intentions to end the 
agreement that is, the 60 days notice however this information hasnt been forthcoming 
despite my requests. 
APS has confirmed they havent defaulted the account and from my understanding they are 
willing to set up an affordable payment plan for S to pay the outstanding balance. I consider 
this to be a fair course of action. Based on the evidence presented to me, there is no 
evidence the agreement has been terminated. On balance, it would appear the use of the 
account remains suspended. Should this not be the case, APS should provide the relevant 
information and evidence so I can consider it. In summary, Im satisfied APS treated S fairly during its time of financial difficulty as it agreed 
to freeze the account for several months. Given the concerns about the ability to repay and 
to avoid the debt accruing, theyve suspended use of the account which they are entitled to 
do as per the terms. They are willing to set up an affordable payment plan for S to pay the 
outstanding balance which I find is a reasonable resolution. I encourage APS and S to work 
together to arrange the same.
Response to the provisional decision
S said it would contact APS to arrange payment of the outstanding balance. APS said they 
had no further comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information, I still consider my findings 
to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final decision is the same for 
the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman