DRN-3071844
The complaint
Mr S has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) continued charging 
him excessive amounts for his overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
  
What happened
Mr S complained to Nat West about charges it was making for his overdraft. Nat West didnt 
respond to him, so Mr S referred his complaint to this service.
Mr Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Nat West 
ought to have realised that Mr S was experiencing financial difficulty by 13 July 2016 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Nat West said that Mr S had few outgoings and his income was enough to ensure he had 
plenty of free money to afford the overdraft they provided. They didnt agree with our 
adjudicators opinion and the case was therefore referred for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nat West will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Nat West acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed and increased   
Mr Ss overdraft on 13 July 2016. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Mr S was in 
no position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Mr S was hardcore borrowing. In other, words he hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance 
for an extended period of time. His overdraft level was almost always higher at the end of 
every month than the wages being paid into his account. It was clear the overdraft was only 
likely to increase. Good industry practice as well as various industry codes in place for well 
over a decade all suggest that overdrafts are supposed to be for unforeseen emergency 
borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. So, I think that Mr Ss overdraft usage 
should have prompted Nat West to have realised that Mr S wasnt using his overdraft as 
intended and they shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. As Nat West didnt 
react to Mr Ss overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same way, I think it 
failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr S ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So, I think that Nat West didnt 
treat Mr S fairly and he lost out because of what Nat West did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ss complaint for National Westminster Bank Plc to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ss current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the renewal on 13 June 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Nat West should contact Mr S to arrange a suitable repayment plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ss 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft on 13 June 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr S along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Nat 
West should remove any adverse information from Mr Ss credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires National Westminster Bank Plc to take off tax from this 
interest. National Westminster Bank Plc must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax 
it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Nat West should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman