DRN-2825265
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc closed his account and registered a default on his 
credit file.
What happened
Mr C says he had a Santander savings account with an overdraft limit of £600. He says in 
March 2020 he left his home and didnt receive Santanders letters. Mr C says he paid 
money into the account but found out in November 2020 that the account had been closed 
and a default registered on his credit file. He says that is unfair and he was living in a vehicle 
at the time due to shielding reasons. Mr C accepts he didnt tell Santander he no longer lived 
at the address it held for him.
Santander says Mr C had a current account with an overdraft limit of £50. It says it wrote a 
number of letters to Mr C telling him his account had exceeded the overdraft limit and that it 
was closing his account. It also says it sent him secure messages and tried to telephone 
him. Santander says it was entitled to close the account in these circumstances and 
correctly registered a default on Mr Cs credit file.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Santander had sent Mr C numerous letters about the account position and the 
default. And that the account balance exceeded the overdraft limit. The investigator thought 
Santanders records showed it tried to telephone Mr C and had sent online messages. The 
investigator thought Santander was entitled to register the default.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says he didnt have a new address and would like 
evidence Santander tried to call him. He also says the overdraft limit was £600 and would 
like the default removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision.
I appreciate Mr C says he moved out of his home address due to shielding reasons and I 
accept he may not have had a permanent address at that time. But I dont think Santander 
could have known about that unless Mr C told it. It follows that I dont think Santander made 
a mistake or acted unfairly by writing to Mr C at the address it held for him and in telling him 
his account had exceeded the overdraft limit.
Im satisfied Santander sent Mr C numerous letters about the account and that it required the 
unauthorised overdraft to be repaid. There is no dispute Mr C didnt repay the balance and 
so Im satisfied that in line with agreed account terms and conditions Santander was entitled 
to close the account and register a default on Mr Cs credit file. So, I dont think Santander 
made a mistake or acted unfairly in these circumstances.
I have looked at Santanders records and can see that it attempted to call Mr C and also sent 
him secure online messages. And Im satisfied that this was Mr Cs account and it was his 
responsibility to manage it. I think he ought reasonably to be aware the overdraft limit was 
£50 and not £600 as he said, as it was clearly recorded on the account statement in 
February 2020 when Mr C would have been living at the registered address. And Mr C ought 
to have been aware of the account balance regardless of where he was living and could 
have checked it in a variety of ways.
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander was entitled to close the account and register the 
default and that this was Mr Cs account which he was responsible for managing.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman