DRN-4485999
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays has declined to refund the money he lost in 2018 to what now 
appears to have been an investment scam. He brings his complaint with the assistance of 
professional representation, but for readability, in what follows I will refer solely to Mr P.
What happened
In 2018, Mr P invested in an unregulated property scheme (that Ill refer to as W). He made 
this investment through a £10,000 bank transfer from his Barclays account in February 2018. 
W has since entered liquidation and Mr P has highlighted significant concerns that it may 
have been operating fraudulently.
Mr P reported what had happened to Barclays in 2023. He complained when it did not 
reimburse him. He said Barclays had breached a duty of care by failing to question him 
about the original payment and, had Barclays done so, it would have come to light the 
investment was not legitimate, and the loss would have been prevented. 
Barclays said Mr Ps payments had been invested with a legitimate company that appeared 
to have gone into administration. It did not consider Mr P had been the victim of an APP 
scam  this had been a failed investment. In any event, Barclays said it wasnt liable for any 
losses because Mr P had authorised the payment, and it did not have any reason to 
intervene or block Mr Ps payment request.
Mr P referred the matter to our service and one of our Investigators didnt uphold his 
complaint. The Investigator thought it likely this had been a scam, contrary to Barclayss 
position. Furthermore, she thought Barclays should have spoken to Mr P about the 
payments when hed made them, given the relatively large value. But even had Barclays 
done so she didnt think Barclays (or Mr P) would have had sufficient grounds to conclude 
the investment was not legitimate given what it could reasonably have uncovered at the 
time. She didnt think Barclays could have prevented Mr Ps loss.
Mr P maintained that had Barclays intervened it would have been able to identify several 
concerning aspects of the investment, and therefore should have warned him this was a 
scam. Had it done so, this would have stopped him from making the payments, and avoided 
the loss he has now sustained.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The starting position in law is that Mr P is responsible for transactions hes carried out 
himself. Mr P doesnt dispute that at the time, he intended to make the payments, albeit in 
the belief he was investing in a legitimate scheme.
However, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id expect Barclays to have 
been on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions, as well as other indications 
that its customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud or scam.
I consider it to be appropriate for a customers previous account activity, among other 
factors, to be taken into account when deciding whether a payment instruction does, or does 
not, present a sufficiently heightened risk that it would justify an intervention before 
processing the transaction.
Here, Barclays did not intervene. It says the payment was not unusual for Mr Ps account. 
and would not have appeared remarkable. It says it had no reason to intervene, rather than 
fulfilling its obligation to carry out Mr Ps payment instruction without delay.
However, Barclays hasnt evidenced its assertion that the disputed payment wasnt unusual 
for Mr P. It may be correct in this, and the payment may indeed have been unremarkable for 
Mr Ps account at that time. But given I have been unable to confirm this, I have considered 
the contrary position to establish if that would lead me to reach a different outcome.
In other words, Ive considered the implications for the outcome of Mr Ps complaint in the 
event Barclays was incorrect - if instead this payment was unusual for Mr P. In the event the 
payment was sufficiently unusual, then as a matter of good industry practice, I would have 
expected Barclays to have intervened here and spoken to Mr P about the payment prior to 
processing it.
But even had this happened, I consider it unlikely this would have prevented Mr Ps loss. 
While there are now significant concerns about the legitimacy of Ws business, these first 
began to surface in the period surrounding Ws liquidation, and therefore several years after 
Mr Ps payment was made.
I cannot rely on the benefit of hindsight  I must consider what Barclays could reasonably 
have established in the course of proportionate enquiry to Mr P about his payment back in 
February 2018.
And with that in mind, I dont think it wouldve been apparent in 2018 that W was likely 
fraudulent rather than simply a risky investment. Im not persuaded sufficient information was 
readily and publicly available at the time which would have caused Barclays (or Mr P) 
specific concerns about this. 
Mr P has provided copies of investment literature I understand he received at the time. This 
appears professional and not obviously anything other than legitimate. It gave an 
explanation of the risks involved, recommended investors should seek independent financial 
advice prior to making an investment decision and indicated that the financial promotion had 
been approved by an FCA regulated firm. The brochure didnt for example falsely claim that 
the investment itself was FCA regulated  it said the contrary. On the face of it, I dont think 
there was enough here for Barclays to have reasonably suspected W was other than it 
seemed.It is possible of course that the investment might have represented a greater degree of risk 
than was suitable for Mr P to take. But Barclays didnt have any obligation to step in to 
protect its customers from potentially risky investments. Taking steps to assess suitability 
without an explicit request from Mr P (which there was not) would have gone far beyond the 
scope of what I could reasonably expect of it in any proportionate response to what, on the 
face of it, was a seemingly legitimate payment request from its customer.
In short, while Ive carefully reviewed all of Mr Ps submissions, I dont find that significant 
concerns would (or could) have been readily uncovered by either Barclays or Mr P at the 
relevant time. I can only reasonably expect any enquiries by Barclays to have been 
proportionate to the perceived level of risk. All considered, I dont think it likely that Barclays 
could have prevented this payment from being made, or otherwise caused Mr P not to 
proceed.
Finally, by the time Mr P reported the matter to Barclays, I understand that the receiving 
bank account was no longer active and so no funds would have remained for recovery at 
that point. So, it simply was not possible for Barclays to have retrieved Mr Ps money.
Having carefully considered all the evidence available to me, I dont find Barclays could have 
reasonably prevented Mr Ps loss here. Neither do I find it materially at fault otherwise. 
I appreciate this will not be the answer Mr P would like me to give, and I am sorry to have to 
disappoint him. He has lost a significant sum. But it is simply the case that I dont consider I 
can fairly and reasonably hold Barclays liable for that loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint about 
Barclays UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman