DRN-2394330
The complaint
Mr E complains that his pet insurer, Pet Plan, whose policy is underwritten by Allianz 
Insurance Plc, has unfairly declined his claim for the cost of treatment for his dog when it 
became ill.  
What happened
Mr E took out lifetime pet insurance for his dog with Allianz in January 2019. Earlier the 
same month the dog had been taken to the vet on two occasions for check-ups and the vet 
recorded that the puppy had been sick and had blood in its stools. Mr E said the vet told him 
that this was normal puppy behaviour.
In December 2019, Mr Es dog became ill and required treatment from a vet for gastritis in 
the form of antibiotics and dietary aids. The cost of this came to over £700, which Mr E 
claimed on his policy.
Allianz examined Mr Es dogs medical history and rejected the claim on the basis that Mr E 
hadn't mentioned his dogs previous visits to the vet and sickness when answering the 
questions at the start of the policy. In its final response to Mr Es complaint, Allianz said the 
policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions; Any injury or illness that happened or first 
showed clinical signs before a) you pets cover started or b) the section was added to your 
insurance.  
Allianzs vet said Mr Es dogs first illness was a symptom of gastric sickness and as the dog 
was at increased risk of this it placed a retrospective exclusion for related treatment on the 
policy and confirmed its decline of Mr Es claim. Allianz said if it had been aware of the 
illness and the dietary advice from the vet at the start of the policy it would have placed the 
exclusion clause from the beginning. It said it was entitled to act retrospectively by a term of 
the policy.
Mr E said his dog was treated nearly two years after it was ill as a puppy and his vet had 
written to say that the dog doesnt suffer from gastritis. Mr E said he didnt think it was 
necessary to mention this to Allianz when the policy started. Mr E referred his complaint to 
our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Allianz would have 
placed an exclusion for related treatment had Mr E made it aware of his dogs previous 
illness. She said Mr E was obliged to answer Allianzs questions accurately but hadnt done 
so. 
Mr E disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr E for having incurred expensive treatment for his dog. When Mr E took 
out his policy for his dog Allianz asked him, Has [your pet] shown any signs of illness or 
injury or been unwell either now or in the past? The questions went on to ask Mr E if 
anything had been discussed with a vet even if potential signs of illness were thought to be 
nothing to worry about. Mr E answered no to these questions.
Mr Es vet recorded his dogs treatment that the dog was bringing some food up every day or 
at least some bile. The vet recorded that an examination took place and some dietary aids 
prescribed. Mr Es vet wrote that this illness was dietary rather than gastric. However, its not 
clear to me why Mr E didnt mention this in response to the questions asked by Allianz.
In December 2019 Mr Es vet recorded treatment for gastritis and their records show that 
digestive support was provided as part of the treatment. I know Mr E puts some store by his 
vets letter that this wasnt the previous cause of illness, but the exclusion clause placed by 
Allianz on his policy was wider than this covering digestive system disorders. Besides this Mr 
Es vet noted diagnosis  post gastritis. Allianz has described his dogs treatment as a 
symptom of a potential gastro-intestinal issue. It said that had it known of the vomiting and 
blood in his stools at the point of sale we would have advised you that gastro-intestinal/ 
digestive disorders would not be covered. 
The reason for the questions Allianz put to Mr E at the start of the policy about any signs of 
illness is because it wont accept the risk of a recurrence of an issue. It is standard practice 
for pet insurers to exclude conditions that are known about or suspected when the policy 
commences. Mr E didnt make Allianz aware of the previous issue when the policy started 
and in these circumstances his policy allows Allianz to place a retrospective exclusion 
clause. Even though Mr E didnt think the conditions were related he should have told Allianz 
of his dogs visit to the vet just before the policy started. And so I think it was reasonable for 
Allianz to decline his claim by use of the exclusion clause. 
In conclusion, I dont think Allianz is saying that Mr Es dog suffered from gastritis before the 
policy started, its saying that the dog had shown signs of a gastro issue. Not being notified 
of this meant that Allianzs position was prejudiced concerning the risk of recurrence. I think 
Allianzs exclusion clause deals with that problem, and it was reasonable for Allianz to 
decline Mr Es claim on that basis.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman