DRN-1860376
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lex Autolease Ltd acted unfairly by not contacting him when a lease he 
had for a car was ending and then by charging him increased rental fees after the agreed 
lease period had ended.
What happened
In June 2017 Mr M entered a two-year lease for a car with Lex Autolease via a broker. The 
lease had monthly payments of around £400pm but, under the terms and conditions of the 
agreement, if the car was not returned at the end of the two years then the lease would 
continue, and the monthly rentals increased to £530pm.
Mr M says he was surprised to receive an invoice at the end of July 2019 informing him that 
he owed Lex Autolease over a £1,000. This amount was due to the lease for the car entering 
an extended period and incurring the higher monthly rental fees. He complained to Lex 
Autolease and said it hadnt advised him that the two-year rental period was coming to an 
end and that it was unfair to charge him the excess rental fees.
Lex Autolease didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said under the terms and conditions of the 
lease it was Mr Ms responsibility to arrange for the car to be collected and returned at the 
end of the lease. It said it was clearly set out that if the lease continued beyond the period 
set in the agreement the lease would enter the informal extension period.
Lex Autolease said that the broker had written to Mr M in January 2019 to advise the lease 
had six months left and had then repeatedly tried to contact him by email and phone over the 
following months without success.
Mr M was unhappy at the view taken by Lex Autolease and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend Mr Ms complaint should be upheld as he didnt think Lex 
Autolease had acted unfairly. 
Our investigator said Lex Autolease had provided a screenshot showing the regular contact 
that the broker had attempted to make to Mr M. There had been numerous emails and calls 
made over the months leading up to the expiry of the lease period. And, while he 
appreciated Mr M said he hadnt received any reminders about the lease, the email address 
used by the broker for Mr M appeared to be the same as the one hed provided to this 
service.
Our investigator also said that on the first page of the agreement it set out that the hiring of 
the car would continue after the period of the lease expired until the car was collected, and 
that the cost of the monthly rental would increase. He said the invoice charges were fair and 
didnt think it was reasonable to ask Lex Autolease to waive them.
Mr M disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said he had never received any 
communication that the lease period was coming to an end, and he would have expected a 
formal letter to that effect to have been sent from Lex Autolease to him. He complained that 
it was an easy way for Lex Autolease to make money out of those who had missed that their 
lease period had come to an end.
As the parties couldnt agree the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the lease agreement, and the list of dates and methods of 
communication with Mr M that were attempted by the broker in the six months leading up to 
the end of the agreed lease period.
On page one of the lease agreement I think it sets out clearly that the lease is for 24 months, 
starting from the day the car is delivered, and the monthly hire costs for that period. It also 
says that if the car isnt collected by the end of the 24 months then the hiring of the car 
continues in what is called the Informal Extension Period. It says that in this period the 
monthly rental will increase to £530pm. 
Ive also seen that in Part 4 (d) of the lease agreement it says that the hiring of the car 
continues until you arrange for us to collect the vehicle from you. So, Im satisfied that the 
responsibility for arranging the cars return rested with Mr M. I think its reasonable to have 
expected him to read the terms and conditions of the lease before he signed it. 
I appreciate Mr M feels strongly that he should have had some contact from Lex Autolease 
before the 24 months had expired even though it was his responsibility under the lease to 
return the car. Ive seen that the broker tried numerous times to contact him. Mr M says he 
never received any emails or messages but, looking at the list of entries for the dates that 
emails were sent, and calls were made to a mobile, I think its more likely than not that there 
were repeated efforts to contact Mr M to advise him the lease term was coming to an end. I 
dont know why Mr M didnt receive any of these messages. And when looking at the terms 
of the lease I dont think its reasonable to say that Lex Autolease was also obliged to 
contact Mr M before the lease period expired. 
So, for the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2020. 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman