DRN-2602423
Complaint
Mr E has complained about a loan Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Lending) provided 
to him. He says the loan was affordable.
Background
Everyday Lending provided Mr E with a loan of £3,000.00 in May 2017. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of around £315.45. Mr E fell into difficulty repaying this 
loan and it entered into a debt management plan.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr E and Everyday Lending had told us. And she 
thought that Everyday Lending hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr E unfairly. So she 
didnt recommend that Mr Es complaint be upheld. Mr E disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Es complaint.
Everyday Lending needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Lending needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr E could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Everyday Lending provided Mr E with a loan for £3,000.00 in May 2017. This loan had an 
APR of 199.6% and was to be repaid in 24 instalments of around £315.45, which meant the 
total amount to be repaid was £7,570.80. Mr E says the loan is expensive. I agree with him 
on this point. However, Everyday Lending did set out the cost of the credit on the loan 
agreement. So I dont think that it misled him over the cost of the credit or the amount being 
borrowed. 
Everyday Lending says it agreed to Mr Es application after he provided details of his 
monthly income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this 
against information on a credit search it carried out and a bank statement it took from Mr E. 
All of this information showed Mr E could comfortably make the repayments he was 
committing to. On the other hand, Mr E has said he was in financial difficulty and shouldnt 
have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr E and Everyday Lending have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Everyday Lending has provided a record of the credit 
search information it received. Everyday Lending searches did show that Mr E had some 
payday lending. But not as much as Mr Es full credit file appears to show. Mr E also said 
that this had been as a result of being off sick from work for a period and the funds from this 
loan together with the remainder of his salary would allow him to get his finances back in 
order. Crucially, there also wasnt anything in Mr Es bank statements which suggested that 
Mr E wouldnt be able to do this or that the information Mr E provided was inaccurate.
I accept that Mr Es actual circumstances dont appear to have been fully reflected either in 
the information he provided, or the information Everyday Lending obtained. For example, I 
know he took out further payday loans in the leadup to this application which didnt show up 
on Everyday Lendings credit search and Mr E ended up defaulting on them. Equally I accept 
that if Everyday Lending had carried out even further checks  such as obtaining further 
bank statements  it might have seen the full extent of Mr Es difficulties and the reasons for 
this. 
But the key here is that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the 
lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
have extended into the level of checks Mr E is suggesting. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Everyday Lending did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr E - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. So overall I dont think that Everyday 
Lending treated Mr E unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his loan. 
Ive also seen what Mr E has said about Everyday Lending actions once he was in arrears. 
But, in this particular case, having looked at everything, it does look as though Everyday 
Lending took reasonable steps to work with Mr Es debt management company once his 
circumstances changed. 
I dont think its unreasonable for a lender to carry out a thorough income and expenditure 
assessment in order to assess what a consumer is able to pay should they be in arrears and 
in circumstances where the lender is attempting to exercise forbearance. In these 
circumstances, I dont think that Everyday Lending did act unfairly or unreasonably towards 
Mr E once he ran into difficulty making payments.  
Overall and having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr E. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr Es complaint, Id like to remind Everyday Lending of its 
ongoing obligation to exercise forbearance in light of what Mr E has said about his ability to 
make payments to this loan, should it choose to collect payments from him and it be the 
case hes still experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman