DRN-3725431
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Revolut Ltd wont refund money he lost as a result of a third-party 
scam.
What happened
Mr S told us that in March 2022, he clicked a link on an advert which led to a website. He 
said someone then called him who passed his details on to an organisation - I will refer to as 
T. T contacted him explaining about cryptocurrency and Mr S then set up a trading account 
with T. T also advised Mr S to open a Revolut account to make transferring to his 
cryptocurrency account easier. Mr S moved money from an account with another bank into 
his Revolut account. The money was then moved from his Revolut account to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency wallet and from there into his trading account with T.
I have summarised the transactions below:
Date Amount (£) Return (£)
26/04/2022 10,000  
26/04/2022 20,000  
10/05/2022  4925.5
25/05/2022 25,000  
26/05/2022 25,000  
01/06/2022 8,995  
08/06/2022 5,000  
09/06/2022 12,000  
10/06/2022 13,000  
13/06/2022 2,450  
Mr S says he was initially encouraged to invest a small amount. T showed him a profit of 
2%- 3% within a day or two. Then Mr S gradually transferred larger amounts over a period of 
time and ultimately by June 2022, he was deceived into investing over £120,000. He was 
shown a profit of more than £500,000. When he made a request to withdraw some money, 
he was told he had to pay 10% broker fees. Mr S said he paid some of these fees but then 
realised it was a scam.
The investigator upheld the complaint in part. She concluded that Revolut would have been 
aware of investment and cryptocurrency trading scams at the time - particularly where 
someone is trading on the investors behalf with funds going to the consumers own 
cryptocurrency account. This is a well-known and common scam trend. She believed the 
scam could have been exposed and prevented. However, she felt it appropriate to make a 
deduction from the disputed transactions as she considered there was enough going on that 
Mr S ought to have been concerned about the legitimacy of the investment.
In addition, Mr Ss other bank (where the money was moved from into the Revolut account - 
before being moved to the cryptocurrency account) agreed to share the responsibility with 
Revolut by paying Mr S 25% of the total disputed transactions. So, the investigator 
recommended Revolut pay Mr S 25% of the disputed transactions: meaning Mr S would be 
refunded 50% of the disputed transactions in total. Mr S would like to be compensated for 
more of his losses.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 January 2023. Revolut accepted my decision but 
Mr S did not. He felt Revolut should pay more than 25% of his losses and he also felt the 
sum he got back from the scam should not be deducted from the compensation. Following a 
number of communications with both parties, I revised the wording for redress slightly  with 
the aim of making the intention (which remains the same) clearer. I apologise for these 
changes, but redress was not straight forward in this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulatory rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Im sorry to hear Mr S was the victim of a cruel scam and lost a considerable sum of money 
as a result. I understand this loss has had a significant impact on his life and finances. In the 
circumstances, I can appreciate why he wants to do all he can to recover all his losses. But I 
can only direct Revolut to refund all Mr Ss losses if it can fairly and reasonably be held 
responsible for them.
Did Revolut do enough to identify the risk of financial harm from fraud?
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into 
what is fair and reasonable in this case.
It is not in dispute that Mr S authorised the scam payments. It is also not in dispute that Mr S 
was duped by the scammers into instructing the bank to transfer money to a cryptocurrency 
account and on from there into the scammers account. The scammers deceived him into 
thinking he was making a legitimate cryptocurrency investment for further trading.
As I understand it, payments to the cryptocurrency provider were used to purchase 
cryptocurrency which was then placed in a wallet in Mr Ss name and from there the 
scammer moved the money into his own wallet. So, although Mr S did not intend the money
to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and
conditions of his account, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Revolut, as an 
electronic money institute (EMI) to take additional steps or make additional checks before 
processing a payment in order to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud. An example of this would be payments which are sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic when compared with the usual use of the account. In such circumstances, 
Id expect Revolut to intervene and ask some questions about the intended transaction 
before processing it.
Revolut says that, as the fraud occurred on the cryptocurrency account, it is not liable for any 
loss. But I dont agree that Revolut is not liable simply because the money was transferred to 
an account in Mr Ss name and the fraud then happened from there. As Ive mentioned 
above, Revolut had a responsibility to be on the lookout for unusual activity and protect 
consumers from financial harm. 
As a financial services professional, I think Revolut would have been aware at the time that 
fraudsters use genuine firms offering cryptocurrency as a way of defrauding customers and 
that these scams often involve money passing through more than one account.
Cryptocurrency scams had been increasing in frequency and both the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) and Action Fraud had published specific warnings about these scams in 
2018. In my view, by the time of these transactions, Revolut had had time to understand 
these warnings and be on the look at for this particular type of fraud.
Revolut says it would be difficult for it to identify transfers as highly unusual or outside the
users normal behaviour because the account was new. However, it does acknowledge the
amounts were high enough to warrant intervention. It explained that its Anti Money Laundry
team acquired further information from the client due to what it accepts was unusual activity
on the account. Revolut explained that the customers account movements were justified by
his high income and savings. Revolut went on to say that it went even further and 
questioned the top-ups of the customer and when Mr S explained he was just moving his 
savings between his accounts  it let the transfers go ahead without asking anymore.
This was a new account and despite there being no account history, I think Revolut ought to
have questioned the transaction of £10,000 (which was shortly followed by a transfer for
£20,000) on 26 April 2022. It was significantly high enough to have caused concern. If
Revolut had asked who Mr S was paying his money to, I think he would have explained
about his cryptocurrency account and how he was trading with T. And, if Revolut had asked
for example, how hed heard about the trader, I think Mr S would have told them hed clicked
on a link which had taken him to a website, and he had shared screens with T. With further
questioning, I think Revolut would have been concerned and put on notice that Mr S was
falling victim to a scam.
And if Revolut had given Mr S some warnings about cryptocurrency scams including telling
him that scam investment companies often provide fake trading platforms and legitimate
investment companies would be unlikely to suggest sharing screens, I think this would have
caused sufficient doubt in Mr Ss mind not to proceed with the payment. In other words, if
Revolut had carried out further or better questioning in line with the banks duty of care, it
seems probable that Mr S would have become credulous about the scam in time and
stopped the £10,000 payment in its tracks. The fraud would have failed; and Mr S would not
have lost £10,000 or the transfers that followed.Could Mr S have done more to mitigate his losses?
Ive thought carefully about what Revoluts obligations were, as set out above. But another
key issue is whether Mr S acted reasonably taking into account all the circumstances of the
scam. So, I have also considered whether Mr S should bear some responsibility by way of
contributory negligence.
Mr S explained he was able to login into his own account via Ts website and see his trading
account with his deposits and profits and was led to believe he could withdraw at any time.
Mr S told us he did look online where there were mixed reviews. He said the website looked
genuine with genuine looking numbers and when he called T  a receptionist picked up the
call. But Mr S was also told his initial £20 investment made a 3% profit in one day. He was
then told hed make 200% to 500% profit within a week if he invested £100,000. This rate of
return was too good to be true. Mr S was told to download a remote desktop application and
encouraged to take out loans to borrow the money to invest. I dont think a legitimate
organisation would do this.
Overall, Im not satisfied that a reasonable person wouldve believed this was a genuine
situation or wouldve proceeded without doing more investigation and checks to verify all the
information they were given  which I think wouldve shown inconsistencies and issues in the
information provided. On that basis, I think its reasonable for Mr S to share the responsibility
with Revolut and reduce any refunds by 75% - as his other bank has already refunded 25%
of the same transactions.
Therefore, Revolut should refund 25% of the payments Mr S made from 26 April 2022, along
with interest. The investigator recommended Revolut add simple interest at the rate of 8%
per annum from the date of transfer to the date of settlement. I think this is fair as Mr S also
told us the money would otherwise have been spent on repaying friends he had borrowed
from, supporting his fathers monthly care costs and towards a deposit on a property.
Mr S also received a return of £4,925.50 from the fake investment on 10 May 2022 so that
should be deducted from the refund. I appreciate Mr S feels it should not be deducted 
because it was reinvested in the next transaction. However, that next transaction is also be 
refunded  which would mean Mr S would be compensated for this the sum twice if it wasnt 
deducted. 
Mr S borrowed £13,000 to invest £13,000 on 10 June 2022  so the rate of return on 25% of 
the transaction that the loan funded should reflect the interest rate paid on that loan.Putting things right
Mr S is responsible for 50% of his overall losses. He has already been compensated for 25% 
of his losses by his other bank. Therefore, Revolut should pay Mr S 25% of his net loss (C) 
where:
C = A-B
A = refund the transactions from 26 April 2022 to 13 June 2022
B = less £4,925.50 returned to Mr S on 10 May 2022
C = net loss = A-B
In addition, Revolut should
Pay interest on 25% of the net losses (except for the loss on 10 June 2022 as this was 
funded by a loan) at 8% simple from the date of loss to the date of refund1
For the loss on 10 June 2022, pay interest on 25% of that loss at the interest rate 
associated with the loan Mr S took out - from 10 June 2022 to the date of refund1
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint in part and require Revolut Ltd to put things right 
as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
1 If Revolut is legally required to deduct tax from the interest should send Mr S a tax deduction 
certificate so he can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.