DRN-4115503
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined a claim for a broken door 
lock under her home emergency policy.  
What happened
Mrs C says the front door lock at her home broke, which meant it couldnt be used. She had 
to use a rear gate in order to access to her property. She contacted Aviva under her home 
insurance policy. This includes home emergency cover. It sent an engineer to her home who 
concluded the lock had been damaged due to wear and tear. Aviva says the property was 
secure and the front door was locked. 
Mrs C says Aviva declined to repair the lock. It told her she would need to replace the front 
door. She couldnt afford to do this and didnt think Aviva was treating her fairly, so she 
complained.  
Aviva says as Mrs Cs property was left secure it wasnt required to take any further action 
under its home emergency policy terms. 
Mrs C disagreed and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator upheld her 
complaint. He says the wear and tear exclusion doesnt apply in relation to a home 
emergency claim. He says the policy definition of property includes Mrs Cs land. As she 
was only able to use the rear gate to exit her property. And she was unable to lock this gate 
from the outside. This meant, under the policy definitions, that Mrs Cs property was left 
unsecured when she wasnt at home. 
Our investigator thought Aviva should refund Mrs C for the repair she managed to arrange 
plus interest at 8%. He says Mrs C had been inconvenienced and caused worry as she had 
no choice but to leave her rear gate unlocked whenever she went out. She was also worried 
about being able to escape in the event of a house fire. He says Aviva should pay her £200 
compensation to acknowledge this. 
Mrs C agreed with our investigators findings. Aviva didnt. It maintained that the property 
was left secure and didnt think it should have to pay £200 compensation. 
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Let me explain.
Mrs C has home emergency cover within her home insurance policy with Aviva. Ive read the 
policy terms to understand what this provides. The terms say:
Home Emergency Cover provides you with assistance in the event of an emergency at your 
property.
And:
The types of emergencies covered are: Security risks such as lost keys, failure of, or 
damage to, external locks, doors and windows.
Also:
Security and roofing
What is covered. You are covered for damage to roofing, external windows and doors, 
broken locks and loss of keys. If a security or roofing incident happens, we will protect your 
property from further damage or make sure the property is secure (or both).
The policy terms define property as:
property - The total area of the land and buildings at the address set out in the schedule 
including the house, flat or apartment and any attached outbuilding (for example, a garage or 
lean-to shed), but excluding:
 any communal or service duct areas; and
 detached garages, sheds, greenhouses and non-permanent structures.
The engineer who visited Mrs Cs property says in his report that the door lock had broken 
at the bottom half. The report also says, Replace the door, Precondition was fair and 
Wear and tear as the reason for repudiating the claim. 
I note Avivas comments that its engineer confirmed the front door was secure. It says this 
means its requirement under its home emergency cover was met. I also note its reference to 
page 17 of the policy terms that references wear and tear as an exclusion.
I agree the requirement under Avivas policy terms for its home emergency cover is that the 
property is left secure. Mrs C confirms that the front door couldnt be opened. So, its 
accepted by both parties that the property couldnt be entered via the front door. I accept that 
the property was secure in this sense. But I dont agree the exclusion it relied on applies 
here. This is from the building insurance section regarding wear and tear. I dont think this 
reasonably applies to the home emergency cover. 
Mrs C says the only way out of her property after the lock had broken was a gate at the rear 
of her property. She says this gate is usually kept locked. She has provided photos of the 
gate. I can see from the photos that it can be locked from the inside but not the outside. This 
means access can be gained to the rear garden/outdoor area of Mrs Cs property when she 
isnt home and is unable to lock the gate. 
The policy definition of property is, the total area of land and buildings. The land to the 
rear of Mrs Cs home falls under this definition. The gate cant be locked when Mrs C is out. 
So, I agree with our investigator that the property as defined by the policy terms, wasnt 
reasonably left secure by Avivas engineer. 
Ive thought about the impact this has had on Mrs C. She arranged for the door lock to be 
repaired despite Avivas engineer telling her the door would have to be replaced. She says 
this wouldve cost considerably more than the £125 she paid for the repair. I think this is fair 
comment and I note Mrs C couldnt have afforded a more expensive repair. I think the information provided by the engineer delayed the door being repaired. 
Whilst the front door was broken Mrs C describes how it was frightening returning to her 
home at night, when having to use the unlit access via the rear gate. She also describes the 
worry she felt in the event of a fire and not being able to use the front door to escape. 
Mrs C first claimed to Aviva in September 2022. She was able to arrange a repair at her own 
cost in February 2023, having disputed Avivas decline decision. This meant she had to use 
the rear gate at her property for several months over the winter. I can understand why Mrs C 
found this distressing and inconvenient. 
In these circumstances, under my remit of deciding a fair and reasonable outcome, I think 
Aviva should pay Mrs C the cost of repairs plus 8% simple interest. In addition, it should 
compensate her for the distress, inconvenience and worry she experienced. I agree with our 
investigator that £200 is fair in these circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited should:
pay Mrs C £125 plus 8% simple interest from 14 February 2023 (invoice due date) 
until the payment is made. *If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mrs C a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
pay Mrs C £200 for the distress, inconvenience and worry it caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman