DRN-3274051
The complaint
Mr R complains he received a poor level of service from HSBC UK Bank Plc when it 
contacted him to verify some information.
What happened
Around May 2021, Mr R complained to HSBC after receiving a voicemail from the bank 
asking him to call back. The voicemail was followed by an email with a little more detail as to 
the purpose of the contact from the bank. Mr R says when he called back, he was left on 
hold waiting to get through to someone for 45 minutes, which he feels was a waste of time 
because he couldnt speak to the person who tried to call him. He says the bank shouldnt 
have left a voicemail if it was going to email him anyway.
Mr R is also unhappy because HSBC later tried to call him at an inconvenient time and says 
he shouldve been given the opportunity to arrange an appointment instead. Mr R asked the 
bank to issue a formal apology. 
In its response, HSBC explained that it had contacted Mr R in line with its safeguarding 
policy because he had recently updated his personal information  so it needed to clarify 
some details. The bank set out the attempts it had made to speak with Mr R and apologised 
for the inconvenience it caused him.
Remaining unhappy, Mr R asked this service to consider his complaint. One of our 
investigators concluded that the bank had acted fairly when attempting to contact Mr R. The 
investigator was also satisfied that HSBC had applied its safeguarding policy fairly. Mr R 
didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision on his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint  Ill explain why.
HSBC says it needed to speak with Mr R to clarify some details after he had updated some 
of his personal information online. In its response to the complaint, the bank made reference 
to its safeguarding policy and says its safeguarding team is where the communication Mr R 
is unhappy about originated from. 
Looking at HSBCs information about its safeguarding policy, I can see its aim is to prevent 
financial crime and fraud, which I dont find unreasonable. The policy sets out that the bank 
may make contact to confirm or update existing information  this includes (but isnt limited 
to) things like salary or assets, employer details and tax status. I think its reasonable for 
HSBC to want to make sure it has accurate information about its customer  especially if the 
purpose of this is to prevent financial crime and fraud. Its not for me to say whether HSBC 
shouldve applied its safeguarding policy in this instance as its up to HSBC to decide when it 
needs to contact its customers under this policy  I can only consider whether it did so fairly 
when it contacted Mr R. I think it did and Ill set out why.
HSBC initially tried to contact Mr R by phone and left a voicemail when it couldnt reach him, 
asking him to call back. This was followed up by an email. Mr R thinks HSBC shouldnt have 
left him a voicemail at all if it intended to follow up the call by email. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the bank to have done this. It seems to me that HSBC reached out to Mr R 
for an important reason  to clarify his information under its safeguarding policy. So I think it 
was appropriate that HSBC contacted Mr R using the different methods available.
Mr R says the bank asking him to call back was a time wasting activity, as he had to wait on 
the phone for around 45 minutes and didnt end up being able to speak directly to the person 
that tried to call him. I understand Mr Rs frustrations as he had to wait for some time and 
had nothing to show for it at the end of the call. Mr R says he also made other calls where he 
had to wait to get through to someone.
But I can see from HSBCs notes that it also tried to call Mr R back multiple times that same 
day. And Mr R had said in an email sent that day that HSBC can call him anytime. Although 
it was unfortunate that Mr R had to spend some time waiting on the phone, I cant fairly 
conclude that the bank did something wrong.
Unfortunately, on some occasions, customers find themselves going through some 
inconvenience as part of everyday banking activities. And its not always guaranteed that 
banking services will always be as efficient as customers expect them to be. But this service 
cant always hold firms accountable for minor inconvenience, especially if the impact of this 
is small. In this instance, Mr R found himself spending some time on the phone waiting to 
speak with the person that called him. I cant see anything that suggests he experienced 
anything more that some inconvenience. So I wont be asking HSBC to do anything 
differently in relation to this.
Mr R says HSBC ignored his request to be called back at a specific time. Ive looked at the 
email chain between the bank and Mr R and I note the following:
Mr R emailed HSBC on 10 May letting the bank know hes available for a call any 
time. This was followed by the banks unsuccessful attempt at calling Mr R 
HSBC emailed Mr R on 11 May explaining that it has booked an appointment to call 
him on 12 May at 9.30am. The bank attempted three calls at the scheduled time and 
at later intervals  HSBCs notes indicate these calls were unanswered
I can see from the banks notes that on that same day, HSBC received an email from 
Mr R asking to be called on 14 May at 11.30am  this email seems to have been 
received after the attempted calls earlier that day
Based on this, Im satisfied that HSBC made reasonable attempts to call Mr R at a time that 
suited him. And given it seems Mr Rs specific call back request was received after the 
appointment the bank had scheduled, I cant conclude that the bank acted unfairly by calling 
him at a time that was inconvenient for him. I can also see that HSBC provided Mr R with the 
option to book an appointment via online banking. So I think the bank did enough to try and 
speak with Mr R at a time that worked for him.
Mr R wants a formal apology from the bank. I can see from the file that the bank apologised 
for the inconvenience Mr R experienced both in an email to him and in its final response 
letter. Im satisfied the bank has already done enough to apologise to Mr R.
In summary, I think HSBC has demonstrated that it had an appropriate reason for trying to contact Mr R  and this seems to be in line with its safeguarding policy. HSBC made several 
attempts to call Mr R and its unfortunate that the times it called him werent convenient. But 
Im satisfied the bank made reasonable attempts to contact Mr R and, although he 
experienced some inconvenience, I havent seen anything that suggests this is because of 
something HSBC did wrong. So I wont be asking HSBC to do anything else in relation to 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman