DRN-1664554
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a packaged bank account 
called a Gold account. She paid a monthly fee for the account and received several potential 
benefits in return. She thinks that Lloyds should refund her all the fees she paid, plus 
interest. 
What happened
Ms S has banked with Lloyds for quite a long time. Lloyds has told us that its records show 
that it sold her the Gold account in March 2011 and that this was the first account she held 
with Lloyds. She switched to a fee-free account in May 2013. I believe that Lloyds records 
about this are probably reliable, and I have taken them to be accurate.
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Ms Ss complaint and didnt recommend that 
Lloyds should give her any money back. Ms S didnt agree with the adjudicators findings 
and asked for an ombudsman to review her case. So, it has come to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Ms S and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Both Lloyds and Ms S have told us that Lloyds advised (or recommended) her to buy the 
Gold account during a discussion at one of its branches. To meet its obligations to Ms S, I 
would have expected Lloyds to check that the Gold account was a reasonable match for her 
needs and financial situation, tell her about its benefits and costs clearly and fairly, and give 
her a choice about buying it, or taking a fee-free account.
. 
Neither party has sent us any detailed notes of what happened during the meeting, which is 
not surprising after such a long time has passed, and I cant tell for sure what Lloyds said, or 
didnt say, to Ms S during the discussion. So, to see if Lloyds advice was reasonable, Ive 
looked at the potential benefits of the account and compared them with what I know about 
Ms Ss circumstances at the time.
In 2011, the Gold accounts potential benefits included travel insurance, use of a car 
breakdown service and insurance for mobile phones. If customers overdrew their accounts, 
then Lloyds charged less interest to customers with Gold accounts than it usually applied to 
those with fee-free accounts. Similarly, the Gold account allowed customers to use a savings 
account with higher interest rates than were usually available to customers without such an 
account. 
I understand that Ms S travelled abroad from time-to-time and so may have found the travel 
insurance attractive. She has told us that she didnt own a car and Im not sure if she had a 
mobile phone. However, Lloyds couldnt adjust the benefits of the Gold account for an 
individual customers precise circumstances, and I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
recommend the account to Ms S due to her potential need for travel insurance. Furthermore, 
the account also provided cheaper withdrawals from many cash machines abroad than 
Lloyds fee-free accounts, which Ms S may also have found of interest. 
Ms S has mentioned that during 2012, she was asked to pay an additional premium for the 
travel insurance due to a medical condition she had at the time. Ms S thinks this was unfair, 
but I disagree. 
Many insurers charge extra for travel insurance to cover medical conditions of the type from 
which Ms S suffered. They usually refer to the process of checking if an extra payment is 
needed as medical (or health) screening. The important issue here is whether Lloyds told Ms 
S, either in writing or verbally, that it was possible she may have needed to pay extra. I 
understand that Ms Ss daughter made the call to the health screening service on Ms Ss 
behalf, so it seems to me that Lloyds must have provided the relevant information, probably 
in writing. 
 
I also think its highly likely that Lloyds told Ms S about the other benefits of the Gold 
account. After all, it was trying to sell the account to her, and it was in its own interests to let 
her know what she could gain by buying it.
It also seems likely that Lloyds told Ms S about the monthly fees she would have to pay. The 
fees would appear on Ms Ss bank statements and I dont think Lloyds would have tried to 
hide them from her or presented the benefits of the account as free.
Turning now the question of whether Lloyds gave Ms S a choice to have a fee-free account. 
There isnt a great deal of first-hand evidence about this. But fee-free accounts have been 
widely available in the UK for many years, both from Lloyds and from other banks, so I doubt 
that Lloyds denied Ms S the opportunity to take such an account. 
So, in summary, while I accept that Lloyds may not have got everything right for Ms S, I think 
it behaved reasonably in recommending the Gold account to her. And Im satisfied that it 
probably told her about the fees, including the possibility of needing to pay extra for travel 
insurance after health screening, and benefits of the account and gave her a choice. I dont 
think that Lloyds mis-sold the Gold account to Ms S.
In early correspondence with us about this complaint, Ms S mentioned that after she opened 
the Gold account, Lloyds didnt set up a standing order for her pension correctly. Lloyds has 
told us that Ms S complained about this in 2012 and it resolved matters then. I dont know a 
great deal about this, and I havent considered it in this decision. This means that Ms S is 
free to pursue the matter separately if she wishes. However, I cant give her any advice 
about this or speculate on the possible outcome of any complaint. Nor do I know if any 
complaint would fall inside or outside the time limits (or other jurisdiction rules) which 
determine which complaints we can investigate. 
Similarly, in more recent correspondence, Ms S has mentioned that Lloyds made it difficult 
for her to switch to a fee-free account in 2013. Again, I havent considered this matter in this 
decision as I dont have enough information to do so, and Ms S is free to pursue it further if 
she wishes.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Ms Ss complaint about Lloyds 
Bank PLC. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman