DRN-2375022
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim made 
under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had the benefit of an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by 
URV, covering the period 1 December 2018 to 30 November 2019 (the policy). 
They booked, and paid for, a villa abroad which they were meant to be staying at in 
September 2019. 
After paying the second instalment that was due for the villa Mr and Mrs H discovered that 
the villa owner had died in or around June 2019. They say that despite their attempts trying 
to contact someone by telephone and email, they received no reply regarding the villa or the 
money theyd paid to stay there. As a result, they felt they had no choice but to cancel as 
they didnt receive information about key codes or access to the villa.
They made a claim on their policy in October 2019 to recover the cost theyd paid to rent the 
villa. URV declined the claim on the basis that it didnt fall within one of the cancellation 
reasons covered by the policy. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs H complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold their 
complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the outcome, so their complaint has been passed to 
me to look at everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
URV has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly and it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim.
Subject to the remaining terms of policy being met, the policy does provide cover if a trip 
needs to be cancelled  including for the following reasons:
The death, bodily injury, illness, disease or complications of pregnancy and 
childbirth of:
a. You
b. Any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c. Any person whom you have arranged to stay with
d. Your close relative
e. Your close business associate
Mr and Mrs H say that their claim should be covered under (C) above.
URV havent disputed that the person who Mr and Mrs H had booked the villa with died in or 
around June 2019. But it says that this policy term doesnt apply as Mr and Mrs H werent 
staying with that person.
Im satisfied that URV has fairly and reasonably interpreted (C) in that way. Theres no 
suggestion that Mr and Mrs H were staying with the person whod unfortunately died. They 
had arranged to rent the villa from them for their exclusive use.  
From their perspective, I can understand why Mr and Mrs H think the cost of the villa should 
be covered but a travel insurance policy isnt designed to cover every eventually. And having 
looked at the other reasons set out in the policy which cover the trip being cancelled, I dont 
think they apply to the situation Mr and Mrs H found themselves in.
When making this finding, Ive taken in account that URVs initial understanding seemed to 
be that Mr and Mrs H had booked the villa through a management company. Mr and Mrs H 
say that wasnt right and theyd booked the holiday directly with the person who died in or 
around June 2019.
However, I dont think any misunderstanding by URV resulted in the claim being wrongly 
declined. And I dont think it had any bearing on the outcome of the claim. 
I know Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope it will help them to 
know that their complaint has been reviewed by someone who is impartial and independent.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman