DRN-1785951
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain National Westminster Bank plc mis-sold them a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 2004 in connection with a 
mortgage Mr and Mrs C arranged in 2001. The policy covered Mr C if he couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities - that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case.
From the evidence I have seen I dont think that National Westminster recommended the 
policy to Mr and Mrs C - although I realise they dispute this. Mr and Mrs C say they had to 
have a National Westminster mortgage to be eligible for the PPI cover. As the bank advised 
them in connection with their mortgage, they consider this also extended to the PPI.
I'm not persuaded that's the case. If National Westminster had recommended the PPI to Mr 
and Mrs C, I would've expected to see evidence of advice about the policy tailored to their 
specific circumstances. I haven't seen anything to suggest Mr and Mrs C received that sort 
of advice from the bank in connection with the PPI. That's why I'm not persuaded that 
National Westminster recommended the policy to them.
So the key question I need to consider is:
-           Did the bank give Mr and Mrs C information that was clear, fair and not misleading in 
order to put them in a position where they could make an informed choice about the 
insurance they were buying?
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Mr and Mrs C are worse 
off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  such as not taking out 
the policy  if there had been no problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.Mr and Mrs C say National Westminster encouraged them to buy the PPI, and they don't 
consider they were given a proper choice about taking it out. I've noted everything Mr and 
Mrs C have said. 
The difficulty I have is that I can't be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs C and 
National Westminster when the policy was sold. I'm also mindful that these events took 
place many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
The policy was sold a few years after Mr and Mrs C had arranged their mortgage. So I think 
they would've understood that buying the PPI wasn't a condition of arranging the loan.  Mr C 
also completed a separate direct debit mandate to pay for the PPI cover. So I think Mr and 
Mrs C wouldve realised that this was separate to their mortgage repayments. 
Without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs C have told me, I don't think I can fairly 
and reasonably say that National Westminster didn't make them aware the PPI was 
optional. 
Mr and Mrs C say they didnt need the policy because of the employer sick pay and 
redundancy pay Mr C was entitled to. But as I've already said, I'm not persuaded National 
Westminster gave any advice to Mr and Mrs C about the PPI, so it didnt have to check 
whether it was suitable for them. 
But even if the bank had given advice, from what Ive seen I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs C. It wouldve paid out in addition to Mr C's employer benefits and 
would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place would mean Mr and Mrs C 
couldve used Mr C's employer benefits to pay for other expenses. So I think Mr and Mrs 
C wouldve had some use for the policy, despite their existing arrangements. 
I can't be sure that the policy cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs C before they agreed to 
buy it. But they took out the policy knowing they would have to pay something for it. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. And I've seen nothing to suggest 
that the benefit wasn't enough to cover Mr and Mrs C's monthly mortgage repayments. So I 
think it unlikely that Mr and Mrs C would have made a different decision if better information 
about the policy's cost had been provided.
Mr C satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy when taking it out. And his 
circumstances do not suggest he would have been caught by any of the conditions limiting 
the policys main benefits (such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-
existing medical conditions). 
In summary, I think Mr and Mrs C agreed to take out the cover, knowing they didnt have to. 
And given it provided broadly what I think they expected when they agreed to it, I dont think 
they would have made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if they had 
been better informed.
Mr and Mrs C suggest the PPI was mis-sold because of what they consider to be a 
discrepancy between the policy summary and the terms and conditions. They say the 
summary suggests benefits will be paid after 14 days off work because of accident, sickness 
or unemployment, but the terms and conditions include a deferred period of 60 days. 
I note that at the top of the policy summary it says:
'Please read this document carefully. Please refer to your policy wording for full terms and 
conditions. This document does not form part of the contract between you and your insurer.'So I think it was clear that the summary did just provide an overview of the policy's benefits. 
The terms on which the benefits would be paid were set out in the policy document.
But in any event, my understanding of the summary is that customers were only able to 
claim the cover once they'd been off work for at least fourteen days. In other words, they 
weren't able to claim if they took fewer than fourteen days off work. I'm not persuaded that 
the summary wording meant benefits would be paid from the fifteenth day.
The policy document provided the specific terms on which the benefits would be paid. There 
was a deferred period of 60 days before payment would be made. I don't consider this to be 
an excessive time period, and it was in line with policies of a similar nature. 
So this point doesn't persuade me that the policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman