DRN-3443281
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about advice they received from Quilter Wealth Ltd (Quilter). 
They believe they were sold unnecessary products, in this case a Venture Capital Trust 
(VCT). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B met with their Quilter adviser to discuss their estate planning needs. 
An authority to proceed form was signed in relation to the estate planning advice on 
28 May 2019. This confirmed the initial fee for the advice was 3%, which equated to £9,000. 
On 4 June 2019, an invoice was issued for that amount. 
A suitability report was issued in respect of the estate planning/VCT advice. This noted: 
Having reviewed your current investments you are prepared to release up to 
£300,000 for possible reinvestment to better meet your financial objectives.
And 
However, following our recent meeting where your estate planning needs and your 
concerns regarding the life assurance plans were discussed further, you agreed that 
you would rather place some of these funds in a plan to reduce your IHT liability and 
gift funds to your sons immediately on either death.
The objectives listed were: 
Your priority is to reduce potential inheritance tax on your estate As you have 
sufficient other assets you are happy to take additional investment risk in order to 
pursue an inheritance tax efficient strategy. You wish to retain control over your 
capital during your lifetime.
You are prepared to invest this capital for a period of 5 years or longer. The primary 
objective is to preserve the value of the capital for your beneficiaries. You also wish 
to retain the flexibility to use the funds in your later life if required.
You like the idea of two separate plans so that in the event of either of your deaths, 
assuming the investments are held for more than 2 years, the funds can pass directly 
to your beneficiaries rather than to each other and you plan to amend your wills to 
reflect this.
You do not wish to manage this investment yourselves and prefer it to be reviewed 
and monitored by experienced professionals to reduce the potential for investment 
loss.
Mr and Mrs Bs inheritance tax (IHT) liability was estimated to be just under £1,045,000. At 
the time, they had Whole of Life insurance policies that were held in trust and were payable 
on a joint life, second death basis. The premiums for these were £975.85 and £356.07 per 
month respectively. 
In relation to these policies it was noted that: 
Although based on these sums assured you have sufficient cover in place to provide 
your children with a lump sum to meet any inheritance tax liability, these premiums 
are reviewable and as you are above age they are now reviewed on an annual basis. 
You are getting increasingly concerned about the large premium increases each year 
and would like options in place to meet your estate planning needs should you chose 
not to keep one of these plans. Also, due to [Mr Bs health] health you like the idea of 
creating inheritance tax plans individually so that on either death the plans would go 
directly to your sons rather than each other.
And 
We considered alternative Inheritance Tax mitigation options such as utilising IHT 
tax allowances, making gifts or effective use of Wills and concluded that you do not 
wish to place anymore of your investments into trust at present or gift too much of 
your estate at present as you wish to retain access and control of the capital should 
you wish and you want to explore other investments, albeit with a higher degree of 
risk, to reduce your potential inheritance tax liability.
Mr and Mrs B were assessed to be dynamic investors in respect of this investment. 
Quilters recommendation was: 
My recommendation to invest £300,000 with Octopus Inheritance Tax Service aims 
to provide full relief from inheritance tax on this amount after 2 years, thereby 
reducing your potential IHT liability.
In relation to the product it said: 
The investment of £300,000 should fall outside of your estate for inheritance tax 
purposes after two years  provided they are still held at the time of passing away. 
This saves a potential tax bill of £120,000 (40% of £300,000). The beneficiaries can 
ask for the proceeds to be paid out to them or alternatively they can continue with the 
investment. Assuming the investment qualifies for Business Property Relief on death, 
then the beneficiaries can continue with the investment outside of their own estate.
The initial fees associated with the VCT were set out in full in both percentage and monetary 
terms, these were:
Octopus investments: 2% - £6,000
Portfolio dealing fee: 1% - £3,000
Adviser fee: 3% - £9,000 
Total: £18,000
The application form for the IHT service/VCT was signed on 24 June 2019. 
Background to the complaint
Quilter issued its final response letter; it didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Unhappy 
with its response, they referred their complaint to this service. 
During the course of our investigations Mr and Mrs B also told us that: Mr B wasnt in good health around the time of the advice. 
Although it appears to have been acknowledged that Mr B was a vulnerable client, 
the extent of his vulnerability wasnt taken into account. 
The situation continues to cause both Mr and Mrs B considerable stress at a time 
when their priority ought to be Mr Bs health. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld and 
found that Quilter should compensate Mr and Mrs B in full for any losses resultant from what 
he thought was unsuitable advice.
Mr and Mrs B accepted our investigators conclusions. Quilter didnt accept the view and 
made further submissions. Ive considered their submissions in their entirety, here Ive only 
included a brief summary of what I consider to be is key points:
The complaint is about the charges, the focus of the complaint isnt the suitability of 
the advice.
The assessment of the suitability of the advice is flawed, and the assessment of the 
complainants needs is at odds with contemporaneous evidence provided. 
The VCT product is no more complex than an investment bond and, from a tax point 
of view, was easier to understand.
Without getting the opinion of a tax expert its not clear how we can assess whether 
or not Mr and Mrs B are in a better tax position or establish the IHT liability. 
The advice met their objectives at the time and had financial and tax consequences 
in respect of the complainants overall position.  
Our investigator issued a further view in response to the issues raised by Quilter, he found 
that the complaint went beyond the charges and remained of the view that the advice was 
unsuitable.
Quilter disagreed. It maintained that the advice complained about was clearly suitable. Its 
position was that wed disregarded the contemporaneous evidence and instead formulated 
an opinion based on hindsight. 
Our investigator explained that because Quilter disagreed the case would be referred to an 
ombudsman for a decision. Mr and Mrs B expressed their disappointment with this. They 
reiterated that they felt that they were given advice to take out products they didnt need. 
They also highlighted that this situation was causing them significant distress. 
Because agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for review. I sent 
Quilter and Mr and Mrs B my provisional decision explaining why I didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. I said I would consider anything either party wanted to add. Neither party 
made further material submissions. My findings remain as set out in my provisional decision; 
Ive broadly reiterated these below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint provided detailed submissions to support their position 
throughout the course of this complaint and Im grateful to them for taking the time to do so. 
Ive considered these submissions in their entirety. However, I trust that theyll not take the 
fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my 
findings, on what I consider to be the main points, and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Its my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
Nature of the complaint
Like the investigator I think the Mr and Mrs Bs complaint goes beyond just the level of fees 
charged by Quilter. Theyve questioned the need for the advice given and claimed that the 
adviser was recommending products simply for the sake of the fees. 
This brings into question the suitability of the advice  and, in any case, our remit is 
inquisitorial, and we can look beyond the complaint as expressed by the complainant. 
Suitability of the advice 
Quilter was required to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. These include the 
overarching Principles for Businesses  principles 1 (integrity), 2 (due skill, care and 
diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular relevance here.
Amongst other things, to fulfil its duties Quilter had to know its clients, act in their best 
interests and give suitable advice.
Its clear that Quilter gathered a substantial amount of information about Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances. They had a number of meetings. Assessed their attitude to risk and detailed 
their financial circumstances. 
Based on the evidence provided and the submissions made by the parties to the complaint, I 
think that estate planning and the limitation of IHT liability was a priority. Estate planning can 
be a complex issue and I dont think it was straightforward in Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B already had whole of life policies in place, which would cover the estimated 
IHT bill in full. Like the investigator, I think the policies were affordable at the time of the 
advice. However, they were reviewable annually and, given Mr and Mrs Bs age, the cost of 
these was likely to increase significantly. 
Its arguable that Quilter couldve waited until one or both of the policies did in fact become 
unaffordable  or, the cost of one or both was such that Mr and Mrs B were unwilling to pay 
for it/them before recommending an alternative way of covering the IHT bill and/or reducing 
the potential IHT liability. That said, estate planning solutions can take time to become 
effective  for example, it was only after two years that the VCT became exempt in this case. 
So, there was some justification for taking action before the need to do so was imminent. This solution was costly but the impact it could have in terms of reduction of the potential IHT 
liability was significant. And, I do think that the costs associated with this were made clear to 
Mr and Mrs B. Taking everything into account, I dont think that this advice was 
fundamentally unsuitable. 
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B but I think the advice did 
meet their needs, so I dont think their complaint about this should succeed. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and I dont make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman