DRN-2689738
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a Royalties Gold account (RGA) by The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS) in June 2011.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator for the following 
reasons.
Before the RGA sale, Mr B had held a free account with RBS, and free accounts were widely 
advertised and available with other financial institutions. So, think its more likely than not 
that Mr B knew he had a choice whether to take out the RGA and chose to take it out based 
on his discussion with RBS.
The RGA cost £12.95 a month and its benefits included worldwide family travel insurance; 
car breakdown cover; mobile phone insurance, £15,000 accidental death cover; payment 
card protection; ID theft protection; extended warranty; home emergency service; special 
rates on financial products, and a range of discounts.
Ive not seen any evidence such as an assessment of Mr Bs circumstances to show that 
RBS advised Mr B to take out the RGA, and this service is aware that RBS sales at the time 
were generally non advised. So, I think its more likely than not that RBS did not provide 
advice to Mr B or recommend that he take out the account.
So, RBS was only required to provide Mr B with enough information for him to make an 
informed decision about whether to buy the RGA or not.
I think its more likely than not that RBS did provide him with enough information as it was 
trying to sell the RGA to him. And it has provided a record which shows it sent him a 
welcome pack with all the details at the time and a series of reminder letters in the following 
years.
Mr B and RBS have provided information that shows Mr B had a car and owned his own 
home, at the time of sale so he had those covers even if he didnt make a claim on them. 
And Mr B could have closed or downgraded the RGA at any time but didnt for nearly ten 
years. So, I think its more likely than not the RGA was of interest to Mr B.
Mr B has shared with us the very difficult circumstances he has endured over the time he 
had the RGA, and Id like to express my sympathy to him.
But looking at the evidence Im not able to say that RBS has done anything wrong in selling 
the RGA to Mr B, so I cant uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman