DRN-3223633
The complaint
Mr L has complained about the scale of premium increases for the pet insurance policy 
Jigsaw Insurance Services Plc sold to him.
Ive referred to Jigsaw throughout this decision, even though when providing its service to 
Mr L it was using a trading name. 
What happened
Jigsaw sold Mr L a lifetime pet policy for his dog in 2019. At that time the annual premium 
was around £482. When the policy renewed in 2020 the premium had increased to around 
£624. In that policy year Mr L made a claim for some vets treatment. When his policy 
renewed again in 2021 the premium was almost £989. Mr L didnt think that was fair and 
complained.
Jigsaw replied explaining the sort of factors that could affect a premium, which included 
things like the dogs breed and claims history. Mr L wasnt satisfied with that response and 
brought his complaint to us.
After speaking with Mr L we considered his complaint focusing on the information Jigsaw 
had given to him when he took the policy out. Our investigator didnt think Jigsaw had dealt 
with that fairly. So he said it should pay Mr L £250 compensation. 
Jigsaw didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint; so its been passed 
to me to decide. In the meantime Mr L told us that hes considering cancelling the policy as 
he doesn't find it affordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it.
Jigsaw is an insurance broker and intermediary. That means it sells policies and may help 
with their admin but it doesn't actually provide the cover itself. That is provided by the policy 
underwriter (the insurer). In this case the policy insurer changed at the most recent renewal. 
Jigsaw has continued to administer the policy. 
As Jigsaw isnt the insurer it isnt responsible for calculating the premium. Thats the 
responsibility of the insurer. And Jigsaw said we should have set the complaint up against 
the insurer and not it. But, while we could have also set up a second and separate complaint 
against the insurer, I dont think thats necessary in this instance.
Thats because there is often more than one company involved in selling, administering and 
underwriting an insurance policy. And its not always immediately apparent to a consumer 
like Mr L to know which of those companies his complaint should be against. And after 
speaking with Mr L we set the complaint up against Jigsaw rather than the insurer. 
The reason for that was because, when Jigsaw sold Mr L the policy, it had a responsibility to 
give him enough information to enable him to make an informed decision about it. The 
information Jigsaw provided should have been clear, fair and not misleading and enabled 
him to make an informed decision about whether the policy was right for him. And, having 
spoken with Mr L there were concerns that Jigsaw didnt do that in this case. 
In contrast, as long as they don't single consumers out for unfair treatment, we think it's 
reasonable for insurers who underwrite such policies to charge what they feel is necessary 
in order to cover the risks the policy offers. We havent examined the insurers role in the 
premium rises in detail, but its clear that the steep rise in premiums clearly came as a shock 
to Mr L. And as it was Jigsaw and not the insurer that has responsibility for explaining how 
the policy may operate at the outset, including how premiums might increase in the future, 
I'm satisfied its appropriate to set this complaint up against Jigsaw.
Mr L bought his policy over the phone. Ive listened to the call recording. During that call 
Jigsaw did explain that the premium was likely to rise year-on-year. It also told Mr L that 
premiums could be affected by claims. But I note that  twice during the call  Mr L 
specifically said he was worried about the premiums going sky-high in the future. 
Jigsaw did tell Mr L it couldn't make any promises about how much the premiums would 
increase by. But, it also said the insurer operated a cap and collar system. It said that 
system meant the premium would likely increase between 10% and 30% depending on 
various factors. It said the higher end of that range would usually be later on to deal with 
risks like cancer and arthritis. But it added that if there was an influx of claims from a specific 
breed that could also have an impact causing premiums to rise a little bit earlier. So I think 
Jigsaw gave Mr L the impression that, while his premium would increase it was unlikely to do 
so steeply or in a manner that might make the premiums unaffordable in only a matter of 
years. 
The first time the policy renewed Mr Ls premium increased by almost 30%, even though he 
hadnt, at that point, made a claim. When he rang to discuss renewing the policy Jigsaw told 
him that the majority of the rise was because of the increase in the number of claims for 
Mr Ls breed of dog. That was something that Jigsaw had warned Mr L might happen when 
he took out the policy. Despite that rise Mr L went ahead and renewed.
At the next renewal, Mr Ls premium increased by around 58% from the year before. That 
was equivalent to a cumulative increase  over two years  of around 105%. So Mr Ls 
premium had increased in the second year by significantly more than the 30% Jigsaw had 
indicated that they might increase by when he took the policy out. And the premium had 
more than doubled in just two years. 
I understand the insurer of the policy had changed at the second renewal. And it may be that 
the new insurer didnt operate the same cap and collar approach the previous insurer did. 
Allowing the premiums to increase by almost double the 30% cap Jigsaw had told Mr L 
about when he took the policy out. But I think Jigsaw had given Mr L an expectation that his 
premiums wouldnt go sky-high. However, I can see that, within two years., Mr L might well 
have thought thats what had happened.
I note the policy documents say that premiums may increase in the future. But those 
documents dont give any kind of indication of the likely or possible scale of the rises. So I dont think Jigsaw did enough to give Mr L a clear understanding of what he could expect to 
happen in relation to the premiums he might have to pay in the future. 
I should say Mr L didn't have to buy a lifetime policy. He could have bought a cheaper yearly 
policy. But those policies don't usually cover any pre-existing conditions. So, once a pets 
suffered with a medical issue, the yearly policies won't cover that problem in later years. As 
a result, if a pet needs ongoing treatment over a number of years, the policyholder will have 
to bear the full cost of that treatment even if they have a policy in place.
Mr L was looking for a lifetime policy. And he was clearly happy enough with the initial 
premium Jigsaw quoted, as he bought the policy. And as premium rises of this type are 
common across the market, and Jigsaw was offering a competitive premium, I think its likely 
that Mr L would have still bought the policy Jigsaw sold to him, as thats the type of policy he 
was looking for. So I don't think hed have done much different if Jigsaw had provided more 
information at the point of sale.
But I can understand that, when his premium increased fairly dramatically in 2021, it came 
as something of a shock to him. And Mr Ls told us that, following the premium increase in 
2021 while he did renew the policy, the premium has become unaffordable and he intends to 
cancel it. 
If Mr L had received more information about the possibility of such significant increases, 
above 30%, when he was initially buying the policy, its likely he wouldnt have been as 
surprised when this happened. In those circumstances hes unlikely to have been upset by 
this to the extent that he was. He would also have been aware that he might one day be in a 
position where he couldnt afford to carry on with the policy and would have to make a 
difficult decision about what to do. So to address his distress and inconvenience arising from 
that I think its fair that Jigsaw pays him compensation of £250. 
For completeness Ill add that Jigsaw said that the policy isnt a lifetime policy but is instead 
annually renewable cover. Technically, thats correct. But I note that when Mr L rang 
Jigsaw for a quote he told it he was looking for lifetime cover. Jigsaw replied yep 
absolutely. It didnt tell him it was selling him an annually renewable cover policy. Also, as 
long as its renewed each year, policies of this type are intended to continue for the life of the 
pet. And are known across the industry as lifetime policies. So I don't think our investigator 
did anything wrong in referring to the policy as a lifetime one.
Further, Jigsaw said that our investigators assessment of the complaint wasnt in-line with 
two similar cases wed looked at previously. I havent looked into those cases in any detail. 
But I note we looked at those complaints as being about the policy underwriters actions and 
not Jigsaws. Also, neither of those cases progressed to consideration by an ombudsman. 
So they didnt complete our two-stage process and were resolved informally. And even if 
they had been decided by an ombudsman, our decisions dont set precedent. That means 
I'm not bound to follow earlier decisions on other cases. Instead I look at the individual 
circumstances of each complaint. And in this instance I'm satisfied that Jigsaw didnt deal 
with Mr L fairly and reasonably and that £250 compensation is appropriate to put that right. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Jigsaw Insurance Services 
Plc to pay Mr L £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman