DRN-3939201
The complaint
A limited company, that Ill refer to as D, has complained about Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limiteds refusal of a claim for business interruption cover under its business insurance 
policy. 
Mr S, as director of D, has brought the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
D is engaged in film production, photography, graphics and other multimedia activities. In 
January 2021, D contacted Hiscox to make claims for business interruption, as a result of 
the Covid-19 pandemic. 
D said that as a result of the Government restrictions imposed in March 2020, 
November 2020 and January 2021 it had to close its business, which resulted in a loss of 
revenue.   
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a business interruption insurance test case 
in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings and how they should 
respond to the pandemic. One of the policies considered in this case had the same wording 
as Ds policy with Hiscox. The Supreme Court handed down its judgment in January 2021. 
Hiscox considered Ds claims but said it needed to wait until the judgment was published 
before it could do so properly. 
Hiscox told D in mid-August 2021 that it was rejecting the claims. Hiscox says the policy 
provides cover for losses arising as a result of D not being able to use its premises following 
closure by a public authority. However, Hiscox said that D was not one of the types of 
business that was required to close as part of the Governments 2020 and 2021 restrictions 
and had been permitted to continue to operate. 
Hiscox also considered if there was cover under a non-damage denial of access clause 
which covers denial of access of the insured premises as a result of a specific incident within 
a mile radius of the premises. Hiscox said D was not denied access of its premises as a 
result of an incident and so this section of cover would not apply to the claims either. Hiscox 
said that all other parts of the business interruption section of cover require there to have 
bene damage to property and so also would not apply to Ds claims. 
Mr S is very unhappy about this and the time take by Hiscox to deal with the matter. 
Hiscox said it was in touch with D throughout its consideration of the claims and it dealt with 
them in a reasonable time.  
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. She did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as she was satisfied Hiscox was entitled to refuse the claims. The Investigator said 
that whilst D may have suffered business interruption, and a loss of income, it was not a type 
of business that had been required to close by the Government. So, it had not been caused 
an inability to use its premises, as required by the policy. The Investigator didnt think the 
claims were covered under any other part of the policy either. 
Mr S does not accept the Investigators assessment. He has made a number of submissions 
in the initial complaint and in response to the Investigator. Ive considered everything Mr S 
has said but have summarised the main points below: 
the Government ordered the closure of non-essential businesses. D is clearly a non-
essential business and was therefore required to close.  
Its premises are used to provided editing services, showroom services, storyboard 
services, design development and selection which must be done face-to-face with 
clients, editors, freelancers and employees. This was not permitted and so it could 
not use its premises.
There were also restrictions on households mixing, which made it impossible to carry 
out its normal business activities at its premises and resulted in its revenue being 
virtually nothing during the relevant times
It also relies on a supply chain, so if some parts of the chain were restricted, this led 
to it not being able to operate services at its premises. 
There was not a complete cessation to operating the premises but there was 
significant hindrance in being able to access and operate the premises. 
In any case, the FCA test case stated that Hiscox and other insurers must pay out if 
businesses have suffered losses as a result of the Government restrictions.
The judgment said that business interruption would include interference or disruption 
and did not require the complete cessation of business.                                 
Mr S wants Ds claims paid and has also asked for compensation for Hiscoxs delay in 
settling the claim, which has caused D significant financial and reputational harm.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
D has made separate claims relating to different lockdown periods. As they are separate 
claims, I am only going to address the first claim, for the period from March 2020, in this 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Its evident from Ds submissions that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a significant financial 
impact. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
Mr S has referred to mention in the judgment of the FCA test case that for a business to 
have suffered business interruption there is not required to be a complete cessation of 
business but would include interference or disruption to the business. I agree and I dont 
think this is disputed. It is clear, Ds business has been interrupted by the Covid-19 
pandemic. However, the question I need to decide is whether the losses D suffered as a 
result of this interruption to its business should be indemnified under its policy with Hiscox. I have considered Ds entire policy carefully. The business interruption section of the policy 
provides cover for a number of events, most of which clearly do not apply to the 
circumstances of this claim, as they require damage to the insured premises or property 
nearby. 
I have considered the sections of cover that both parties consider are relevant to this claim 
below: 
Public Authority 
This part of the policy provides cover for business interruption losses caused by: 
your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority during the period of insurance following 
b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease  
The insured premises are Mr Ss home address, from which he operates the business.   
The term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Ds was 
considered as part of the FCAs test case. Paragraph 129 of the Supreme Courts judgment 
said: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not cover 
all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following 
an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the interruption is 
caused by the policyholders inability to use the business premises due to such 
restrictions. 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136: 
 an inability of use has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in 
use. 
There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of Covid-19 
and Covid-19 is a notifiable human disease. I dont consider that this occurrence needed to 
have been either at or in the vicinity of the premises. And I dont consider that the restrictions 
needed to have specifically targeted Ds business alone. 
The court also made it clear that it may be possible for a business to claim for losses that 
arose out an inability to use its premises for a discrete part of its business activities. As such, 
this policy term would provide cover to a business that had been caused an inability to use 
their insured premises, for all or for a discrete part of its business. 
Mr S has referred to parts of the judgment in the test case about cover for hindrance of the 
use of insured premises, including for example where potential customers are prohibited 
from visiting non-essential retail premises for non-essential purchases. However, in my 
opinion it is clear from the quote above that the court determined that impairment or 
hindrance of use would not be enough to trigger cover under these terms; the inability to use 
the premises, or a discrete part of them, for business activities would have to be absolute. 
(As the premises were Mr Ss home they could still be used for that purpose; it is only an 
inability to use the premises for business purposes that is relevant here.)
So the question is whether or not D suffered an inability to use its premises for business 
activities.Mr S says the premises would ordinarily be used to meet clients, freelancers and employees 
to edit and produce its content and other services. D provides services for weddings and 
other private events and also filming and photography services for commercial clients. D has 
confirmed there is no studio to take film or photographs of clients at the premises. So it 
seems to me that while sales might be concluded at the premises, this is likely to be by prior 
appointment, rather than walk-in sales. 
The Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 2020 (the March 
Regulations) are relevant to considering this question. These regulations were important in 
setting out which businesses were required to close in March 2020. 
Ds business of video and photography production doesnt seem to fall clearly into any of the 
types of business specifically mentioned in the March Regulations, either as being a 
business that was required to close or that was permitted to stay open. Ive therefore 
considered all the evidence to determine whether it is reasonable to conclude that D was 
required to close. 
Non-essential shops and some other retail service industries (such as hair salons and 
leisure centres) were listed specifically as being required to close, as were pubs, theatres, 
cinemas, and museums. These businesses would all seem to be places that members of the 
public could gather or attend for recreational, non-essential retail purposes and sometimes 
for services that could not be undertaken at a distance (such as hair dressing services).
I do not think that Ds business, as it has been described in the evidence provided to me, 
would fall into the same category. While some of its services were to members of the public, 
it did not have an open studio, or showroom that was open to the public in the way that the 
shops and other businesses that were specifically listed as having to close would have. 
The March Regulations also allowed people to leave home to attend work, if they were 
unable to work from home. D is based at Mr Ss home address. I consider that Mr S, Ds 
other employees and its commercial customers that might need to attend its premises, would 
be seen to be travelling for the purposes of work when attending the premises. 
The regulations did impose other restrictions on people that would likely have had an impact 
on businesses that were able to remain open. The restrictions on gatherings such as 
weddings, and other social events, and restrictions on movement that required people to 
remain at home without a reasonable excuse, would have all meant that the demand for Ds 
services and products fell. And I accept that the restrictions on movement meant that private 
customers could not attend the premises for meetings, as this would likely not be considered 
to be a reasonable excuse. However, this does not amount to an inability by D to use its 
premises for business activities.  
D also says parts of the premises could not be accessed due to the social distancing 
guidelines. D might have had to adjust how its premises were used, to comply with social 
distancing regulations and other guidance, but the fact remains it was able to use the 
premises, even if not as it would usually. And, even if commercial customers could not 
attend the premises, it seems likely to me that D could still have also used the premises to 
meet them remotely. 
Having considered the types of businesses required to close and those that were permitted 
to stay open, I think it is reasonable to conclude that D was not required to close its 
premises, or any discrete part of its premises, as a result of the Government regulations.  
The circumstances at the time would have meant that the demand for Ds services might 
have fallen and that there were problems with its supply chain. But, whilst I do not doubt D suffered a disruption to the normal operation of its business, the policy requires that there be 
an inability to use its premises. And I do not consider D suffered such an inability to use its 
premises.
As such, I do not consider Hiscox acted inappropriately in declining Ds claim under this 
section. agree that the regulations did impose other restrictions on people that would likely 
have had an impact on businesses that were able to remain open. 
Non-damage denial of access 
This part of the policy covers business interruption losses caused by: 
an incident occurring during the period of insurance within a one mile radius of the 
insured premises which results in a denial of access or hindrance in access to the 
insured premises, imposed by any civil or statutory authority or by order of the 
government or public authority, for more than 24 consecutive hours.
This clause refers to access rather than use. But I dont intend to make a finding on 
whether Ds access to the insured premises was hindered or prevented because I dont think 
that any restrictions were as a result of an incident. 
I think the FCA test case is relevant. The High Court said (at paras 404-405) about the need 
for an incident: 
 this word should be given the same essential meaning as an event: something 
which happens at a particular time, at a particular place, in a particular way ...an 
incident is not synonymous with emergency or danger it is a misuse of 
language both generally and on the correct construction of the NDDA clause to 
describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident occurring within a one 
mile radius of the insured premises. 
It may amount to a state of affairs but it istoo geographically dispersed, variegated, 
prolonged and non-specific to amount to an incident in any event, it is a misnomer 
purposes of the clause. 
This part of the judgment was not appealed to the Supreme Court and so is relevant case 
law.
Ive considered whether this position would be amended by the Courts position in Corbin 
and King Ltd v AXA Insurance UK Plc [2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) but I dont believe it would 
be. Thats because the judge said at para 516: 
The word Incident also is capable of lending a very distinct colour to a wording  as 
the telling argument recorded at [398] of the Divisional Court's judgment makes clear. 
Its significance is underpinned by the Divisional Court's conclusion at [404] that In 
our judgment, the FCAs entire case on the NDDA founders on the requirement for 
an incident. 
I see no reason to depart from the findings of the High Court and do not therefore consider 
that there was an incident within the vicinity which prevented or hindered Ds access to its 
premises. Therefore, I think Hiscox has acted fairly and reasonably in finding that this clause 
doesnt cover Ds claim.
FCA test caseMr S says the FCA declaration about the test case stated that it was enough for a 
policyholder to show the business interruption was as a result of Government action in 
response to Covid-19 cases, which included at least one case of Covid-19 within the 
relevant policy area, for a claim to be covered. 
However, this comment is in relation to policies that provided cover for the occurrence, 
outbreak or manifestation of disease within a certain radius of, or at, the insured premises. 
That is not the cover provided by Ds policy. 
Mr S might have had an expectation that his claim would be covered as a result of this but 
whether there is cover depends on the particular wording of each policy. Ds policy provides 
cover if there was an inability to use the premises, or where access has been hindered or 
denied as a result of an incident and for the reasons set out above, I do not think Hiscox was 
unreasonable to refuse cover for its claim under these sections of cover. 
Time taken to deal with the claim 
The claim was made in January 2021 and Hiscox responded to formally reject the claim in 
August 2021. 
I can only consider and make an award that recognises the impact of any wrongdoing by a 
financial business on an eligible complainant. In this instance, the eligible complainant is a 
limited company, rather than any individual. A limited company cannot suffer distress or 
frustration. So, I cannot consider the impact on Mr S personally of the way the claim was 
handled. 
Mr S has also said that D has suffered financial and reputational harm as a result of the 
delay in dealing with the claim. I have not been provided with any evidence to support this 
assertion that the time taken to tell D the claim was not covered  rather than the refusal of 
the claim itself  caused financial and reputational harm.  Having considered everything, and 
as I do not think Hiscox was unreasonable in refusing to cover the claim, it seems unlikely to 
me that any delay in informing D of this was the sole reason for any negative impact on the 
businesss reputation.  
I do not therefore intend to award any compensation. 
I appreciate this is a matter Mr S feels very strongly about, and Im mindful of the 
consequences my decision may have on D. But I havent found Hiscox acted unfairly in 
declining its claim. Im therefore not directing Hiscox to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthyOmbudsman