DRN-2915413
The complaint
Mr G complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) under his home 
emergency policy. His complaint is that British Gas didnt provide a full service of his boiler.
What happened
Between 2013 and 2020 Mr G held a home emergency policy with British Gas that provided 
repairs in the event of breakdown or damage to the boiler and controls. It also included an 
annual service of the boiler. 
In 2020 Mr G cancelled his policy and had his boiler serviced by a private engineer. The 
engineer told Mr G that, in his view, British Gas hadnt properly serviced Mr Gs boiler. The 
engineer found a build up of shale and filings in the boiler, indicating that the affected part of 
the boiler hadnt had a full strip down service during the time of the policy.
 
Mr G contacted British Gas to complain that his boiler hadnt been properly serviced and 
therefore hadnt been working as efficiently as it should. Mr G also said that since the private 
engineers service the boiler had been working far more efficiently.
British Gas rejected Mr Gs complaint. They disagreed that they hadnt serviced the boiler 
properly, as the policy didnt state that the annual service would be a full strip down service. 
They said that when their engineers carried out the annual service, they took a series of 
readings from the boiler. Only if these readings fell outside defined parameters would they 
carry out a full strip down service. Records of the annual services of Mr Gs boiler indicated 
that these parameters hadnt been exceeded, so the services were carried out in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. But British Gas did offer Mr G £50 as a goodwill 
gesture for his boiler working more efficiently after the private engineers service.
Mr G then complained to this service. The main points of his complaint were that 
British Gas had failed to service the boiler properly. Also, he was told by a British Gas 
manager that, while he thought the work carried out by the private engineer should 
have been done by British Gas, the service records confirmed that the readings taken 
at each British Gas service didnt indicate the need for a strip down service. Mr G also 
didnt think £50 was fair and reasonable compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. The investigator concluded that 
British Gas had complied with the terms and conditions of the policy, which didnt 
require a strip down service, as the purpose of the annual service was to ensure that 
the boiler was working safely (not as efficiently as possible). So the investigator didnt 
think that British Gas had done anything wrong. The investigator also didnt think that 
British Gass offer of £50 as a goodwill gesture was unfair.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He remained unhappy that British Gas werent providing a full boiler service, 
unless specific parameters were exceeded. He was also unhappy at the £50 offered to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether British Gas has acted fairly towards Mr G.
The main element of Mr Gs complaint is that British Gas didnt carry out a proper service of 
his boiler. Ive looked at the service records provided by British Gas. These indicate that 
annual services were carried at roughly annual intervals from January 2013 through to 
September 2019, with some work in 2018 to replace a valve. Theres no indication of any 
additional work (such as a strip down service). The issue is whether this is consistent with 
what the policy terms and conditions provide for.
Looking at the terms and conditions, specifically those relating to the annual service, this is 
defined as:
a check in each period of agreement to ensure that your gas boiler, appliance or 
central heating, and ventilation is working safely and in line with the relevant laws 
and regulations.
Theres also a visiting you section of the policy that states:
One of our engineers will visit your home to complete your annual service. This will 
include testing the gases your appliance or boiler produces.
If the visit shows that its necessary to take your appliance or boiler apart to adjust or 
clean it, well do so.. 
My reading of these terms and conditions indicate that the purpose of the annual service is 
to ensure that the boiler (and the other elements listed) are working safely, and that the 
testing involved is designed to do this. While I note the view of Mr Gs private engineer (and 
the comment Mr G says was made to him by a British Gas manager) that the service should 
involve strip down, its not what the policy terms and conditions require as a matter of 
routine (as opposed to being shown to be necessary). Nor do I think thats what they imply, 
so I cant say that they are misleading (and therefore unfair or unreasonable).
 
Based on these considerations, Ive concluded that British Gas acted within the terms and 
conditions of the policy in providing an annual service of the type set out in the policy. As I 
dont think these terms and conditions are misleading, then Ive concluded that British Gas 
havent acted unfairly or unreasonably. In those circumstances, while I can understand Mr 
Gs unhappiness, I cant say that their offer of £50 as a goodwill gesture is unfair or 
unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman