DRN-3448079
The complaint
Mr P complains through his representative that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 
money lent him money on a high cost loan which he was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr P with a loan on 20 July 2020 for £1,500, repayable at the rate 
of £94 a month over 24 months. Mr P got into difficulties with the repayment and had several 
failed payments up until August 2021 when his representative first raised a complaint about 
the affordability of the loan with 118 118 Money. Mr Ps representative has supplied an up to 
date (to June 2021) credit report
118 118 Money said it carried out standard industry verification checks, including obtaining 
as credit report, and assessed Mr Ps application thoroughly. It was satisfied that it had acted 
correctly in approving the loan application.
Our adjudicator said that the repayments in respect of the proposed new loan (when added 
to Mr Ps existing loan and debt repayments) represented a significant proportion of his 
income. In these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Mr P wouldnt have been 
able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow again.
118 118 Money pointed out that using a 25% threshold in respect of the proportion of credit 
commitments against income is not an automatic uphold, particularly where the customer 
has sufficient disposable income as was the case here.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did 118 118 Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr P would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr P would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required 118 118 Money to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ps ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so 118 118 Money had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that it had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr P undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr P. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
With regard to 118 118 Moneys comments about the proportion of Mr Ps credit 
commitments against income, I agree that this being over 25% doesnt automatically mean 
the loan was unaffordable, and I dont think the adjudicator said this. But one of the potential 
indicators that the level of affordability risk arising out of the agreement may be high may 
include where the total value of the customers debts relative to the customers income is 
high.
Ive noted that Mr P had five credit cards which he was using, and he had been making more 
than the minimum payment each month. However he had two home credit loans for which 
he had respectively missed four and five payments in the last six months as set out in the 
credit report obtained by 118 118 Money. This was an indication both of Mr P using credit to 
fund daily living and of difficulties in keeping up with payments.
Mr Ps income as verified was relatively low, about £1,149 a month. 118 118 Money says 
that Mr P had sufficient disposable income to pay the loan. However I do think its for 118 
118 Money to show that it has assessed this disposable income properly by taking into 
account Mr Ps income and outgoings. The only evidence Ive seen of this is a document 
setting out the data on Mr Ps application form. This records his income as £1,149, and his 
rent as £268. No other outgoings (or credit commitments) are listed. This either means that Mr P didnt provide them or 118 118 Money didnt list them. But it would have known that 
Mr P had substantial credit commitments and he would have had other living expenses such 
as food, utilities etc. Allowing a minimum of £500 for those and £300 for his credit 
commitments, with his rent payment this would leave only £81 to pay the loan. On the basis 
of his likely disposable income I dont think the loan was affordable.
The obvious solution in this case would have been to consolidate all his debts. The purpose 
for the loan was set out as other and none of the monies paid to Mr P were used to pay off 
any of his debts. If this had been done there would have been enough to pay off all the credit 
cards and the two home credit loans leaving Mr P with just the new loan payment. I note 
from his later credit report that he hadnt managed to pay any of his credit cards off. Indeed 
the debts had increased on each one. He had also taken out a new loan and two further 
credit cards. 
I think 118 118 Money carried a proportionate affordability check. But, whilst I appreciate that 
118 118 Money wouldnt have known that Mr P would take on more debts, I think there was 
sufficient information in the credit report it carried out and in Mr Ps circumstances for this 
loan to be likely unaffordable. So I think 118 118 Money didnt make a fair lending decision.
Putting things right
Mr P has had the capital sum for the loan and its fair that he repays this. So I will require 
118 118 Money to do the following
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mr P as payments towards the capital amount of £1,500.
If Mr P has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8%* simple 
interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
But if theres still an outstanding balance, 118 118 Money should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr P.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money 
to provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman