DRN-2574972
The complaint
Mr M complains that Moto Broking Limited provided poor service to him in relation to the 
policy excess payable on his motorcycle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ms motorcycle was written-off in April 2020. His insurer deducted £400 for the policy 
excess from the settlement sum it paid, but Mr M said the deduction should have been £200. 
The insurer contacted Moto. A Moto advisor confirmed to the insurer and to Mr M that the 
excess was £400, but she said as there was some confusion about it, Moto would call Mr M 
the next day after looking into it further. 
Moto advised Mr M the next day that there had been an error and that it would sort the issue 
out with the insurer, which it did the same day. The insurer agreed to send Mr M the £200 
that was deducted in error and he received a cheque a few days later. Mr M complained to 
Moto that hed faced distress and inconvenience as a result of its error. Moto apologised and 
offered him £20 compensation, which it later increased to £50.
 
Mr M wasnt happy with Motos offer. He thought it should refund his premium (or at least 
half of it). And when he complained to this service, he said that as a result of Motos error, he 
wasnt able to retain the bikes salvage.
 
The investigator who considered Mr Ms complaint thought Moto had acted reasonably in 
offering Mr M £50 compensation. He said it had corrected its error quickly. He didnt think the 
issue with the excess had any effect on the bikes salvage. As Mr M didnt accept the 
investigators view, the complaint was passed to me for review.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moto accepts that it made an error, but I think its clear from the documents and the call 
recordings that it dealt with the issue promptly. Mr M was put to some trouble in explaining 
the error to his insurer and in liaising with Moto about it, but it was resolved over a short 
period. I think the impact on a consumer of a minor error thats put right quickly is relatively 
small. So in my opinion, it was reasonable for Moto to deal with the issue as it did, by 
apologising to Mr M and offering him £50 compensation.
 
I think most of Mr Ms distress appears to come from the fact that he believes Motos error 
meant he wasnt able to retain his bike. Moto says it wasnt made aware of this issue, so it 
wasnt addressed in its final response letter to Mr M. Moto told us it didnt understand how 
the error could have affected the retention of the salvage. Mr M says being offered £200 less 
for the bike than was due made him not want to keep it, although he hasnt explained why.
The insurer offered him £2,200 for the bike, minus £400 for the policy excess. It said if he 
wanted to keep the salvage, a further £770 would be deducted. Had no error been made 
about the excess, Mr M would have had the same sum deducted for the salvage, so Motos 
error had no impact on that. And it was Mr Ms decision whether it was worth it to him to 
retain the salvage. Many consumers chose not to do that, for various reasons.   
As I think Moto acted reasonably in dealing with its error, I cant uphold Mr Ms complaint.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman