DRN-3778487
The complaint
Mrs and Mr A are unhappy about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) 
handled a claim under their home insurance policy. When I refer to AA I also mean its 
suppliers. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr A have a home insurance policy covering their household contents. 
In late October 2021, one of their family members damaged a TV in their home. Mrs and Mr 
A say this happened when the family member threw the remote control for the TV at a glass 
screen fixed to the front of it, breaking it and smashing the remote.
They made a claim. In the initial call Mrs and Mr A said theyd bought the TV about 20 years 
ago. 
About a week later, they found a receipt for a TV which had been part of an insurance claim 
about 22 years before, and they sent this receipt to AA. This receipt was for a different TV to 
the one that had been damaged.
AA sent an engineer to inspect the damaged TV. The engineer wasnt able to turn the TV on 
to check it functioned because the smashed remote control had already been disposed of. 
The engineer took the TV away and provided a report to AA. 
While AA was dealing with the claim, Mrs and Mr A bought a temporary replacement TV by 
buying a spare one from a relative.
AA asked Mrs and Mr A for details of which theyd obtained the temporary replacement TV 
from. Mrs and Mr A told AA firstly that theyd bought it from an internet marketplace, and 
theyd paid for it by taking money out from a bank. In the same conversation, Mrs and Mr A 
then said that theyd bought the TV from a relative and paid cash for it.
AA then asked Mrs and Mr A to provide evidence of their payment for the replacement TV. 
Mrs and Mr A refused to provide this information because they said it wasnt relevant to the 
claim.
AA declined the claim. It told Mrs and Mr A that it was declining the claim due to Mrs and Mr 
A not being able to provide it with the evidence it required. It referred to this condition within 
the policy wording:
GENERAL CONDITIONS RELATING TO CLAIMS
4. Our rights
We are entitled to:
 receive from you any help and information we may need.
AA also said its handling of Mrs and Mr As complaint wasnt as good as it should have 
been. It apologised for this and awarded them £100 compensation.
Mrs and Mr A remained unhappy and brought their complaint to this service. They ask that 
AA settle their claim.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said she thought AA was 
entitled to ask for further information when it was assessing a claim. 
In this case, it appeared Mrs and Mr A were asking for reimbursement of the amount theyd 
paid for the replacement TV. So, because they werent able to provide evidence of the 
source of funds, AA wouldnt consider paying that amount under the claim.
Mrs and Mr W didnt agree with the view. They asked that it was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
It seems to me there are two main issues here and I will deal with each of them separately.
AAs declinature of the claim
The issue I have to decide is whether AA has acted fairly and reasonably in declining the 
claim. And on balance I dont think it has.
I can see from the evidence I have that there has been some misunderstandings by AA 
about the TV that was damaged. 
In the initial call to AA, Mrs and Mr A provide a make, model and serial number for the 
damaged TV. 
About a week later, Mrs A rang AA and said theyd found a receipt for the TV. Having looked 
at the evidence Ive been sent, I can see that the receipt they found was for a different TV. It 
was the same make, but a different model (and serial number). This receipt was from a 
previous insurance claim theyd made in 1999. 
Crucially, the two models were made at different times, and the one reported as damaged 
could not have been the one shown on the receipt.
But because Mrs and Mr A called AA and changed this information, it seems to have 
affected AAs position on the claim.
About six weeks after the damage happened, Mrs and Mr A spoke to AA to provide more 
details about the claim. In that conversation, Mr A says hed already bought another TV from 
a relative for about £150 because they needed something for their family member to watch. 
Ive listened to the call when Mr A says this and he does mention an online marketplace, the 
internet and then the relative. Mr A said AAs claims handler then asked him where he got 
the funds for this replacement TV from, in a manner that Mr A didnt agree with. Mr A 
mentions taking money out of the bank, or paying for it from cash they had in the house.
Although that particular call seems to end well, AA then asked Mrs and Mr A to provide 
evidence of how theyd paid for the replacement TV. Mrs and Mr A werent happy to send AA 
this evidence, so AA declined the claim because Mrs and Mr A were unwilling to provide it.As Ive said above, AA maintain that its a condition in its policy wording that a claimant co-
operates with it and provides it with what information it needs. But Im unsure why AA think it 
would need to know about the source of this replacement TV, and why Mrs and Mr A needed 
to provide evidence of a source of funds. This is particularly important because the amount 
of money this replacement TV cost, £150, was the same as the excess on their policy. 
So if Mrs and Mr A were just claiming the £150, then AA should have told them this and it 
would have brought the claim to an end. If Mrs and Mr A were seeking to have their TV 
replaced by AA, then I dont think the source of an interim replacement is relevant.
Mrs and Mr A had co-operated during the various calls, even making an extra call when they 
thought theyd found extra information about the TV. Because they were mistaken about the 
receipt, it seems likely to me that AA then made further checks into the claim, which 
ultimately led to it being declined. Whilst I dont think its unfair of AA to make these further 
checks, I dont think its acted reasonably here.
The report about the TV
AAs engineer stated in their report that
there is no way a remote control thrown by a [family member] would cause this. It is 
more consistent with being hit with a hammer very hard. As such the item has been 
deemed beyond repair but the item should be repudiated due to the inconsistent 
damage.
In the same report, the engineer lists the TV as being very old, and in their opinion wasnt 
likely to have survived for that time with regular or semi-regular use. 
These points indicate to me that AA likely didnt think the claim for the TV was valid. Either 
because the TV wasnt working, or because the damage to it had been caused deliberately 
by hitting the screen with a hammer.
When AA declined Mrs and Mr As claim, it didnt refer to either of these concerns.
Ive looked into these points. Firstly, I can see from a popular online marketplace that 20 
year-old versions of this TV, and ones like it, are still being sold in working condition. Mrs 
and Mr As evidence indicates to me that this TV was being used about twice a week, which 
would indicate a semi-regular usage at best. Whilst this doesnt necessarily mean that this 
particular TV was in working condition, I dont think AA has done enough to prove this point.
Secondly is the contention that the damage caused couldnt have been caused by the family 
member and was more likely to have been caused by hammer damage. Having read the 
evidence, it seems very possible to me that the family member who threw the remote control 
did so while they were particularly angry.
I can see from images of similar devices online that the remote controls are larger than the 
common types we see today. For a type of TV which has survived in use for about 20 years, 
Id also expect that the remote control was similarly well built and carried additional batteries 
and weight. Unfortunately, the remote control was badly smashed and was disposed of 
before AA could inspect it.
But given the likely size and weight of the remote control, as well as some important 
information about the family member, I think its reasonable to think that the damage could 
have been caused as explained by Mrs and Mr A.Its important that I balance my thoughts against the fact that AAs report was supplied by an 
expert in the particular field, and I need to give due weight to that. But AAs report is 
inconsistent with the claim as it lists the model number of the TV as being the one from the 
receipt, rather than the one named in the initial claim. In addition, some of the wording on the 
report is very final and opinion-led, rather than being persuasive as I would expect to see on 
such a report.
Its factors such as these that lead me to think that I dont think its fair of AA to rely on the 
report. I dont think it is sufficiently valid to disprove the claim, and I dont think its 
reasonable for AA to rely on it.
Summary
Having listened to all of the calls and read all of the evidence in the file, I dont think AA have 
acted fairly. On balance, I think the TV was likely damaged as Mrs and Mr A have said. 
Then, when AA started to handle the claim, Mrs and Mr A provided some incomplete and 
contradictory information which I understand AA will have used to provide it with a picture of 
the validity of it. But AA failed to check this information despite evidence being to hand.
AAs expert report then appears to reinforce some factors around the exact nature of the 
claim, but AA didnt use this report to decline it.
AA chose to decline the claim because Mrs and Mr A didnt co-operate with it and Ive said 
above that I dont think its fair for AA to do this. And particularly so because of the cost of 
the replacement TV theyd bought against the excess under the policy.
Its my thinking that AA should allow Mrs and Mr A to continue to make the claim for their TV, 
should they wish to do so, under the remaining terms and conditions of their policy. Mrs and 
Mr A may also choose to not pursue the claim further if they are content with their 
replacement TV, with the price they paid falling into their insurance excess.
It also seems clear to me that AAs service has been poor during the claim. Mrs and Mr A 
have talked about their stress and exasperation with the service theyd received and I think 
AA should have done better to check the information it had. So I also think AA should pay 
Mrs and Mr A £200 for their distress and inconvenience. 
Responses to my provisional decision
AA responded and made the following points:
It explained that the engineer company it used to inspect the TV is a supplier to many 
leading insurers and it was asked for both a factual and opinion-based report. 
AA said that its incredibly hard to break the glass making up the front screen of a TV 
with a tube.
It maintained that Mrs and Mr A had walked away from the claim and hadnt co-
operated with its claims validation process. It said to continue the claim they would 
have to complete this to AAs satisfaction.
Mrs and Mr A also responded and said they wanted to continue to make the claim for their 
TV.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered AAs response to my provisional decision very carefully and asked it to 
supply further information about the TV. AA sent this service a photograph clearly showing 
that the TV that was broken was the one that was identified by Mrs and Mr A in their initial 
call. This means AAs engineer mis-identified the damaged TV, despite it having a makers 
mark showing what it was.
AA also sent information it obtained from the internet about how hard it was to break the 
glass tube of a TV.
But in Mrs and Mr As case, it wasnt the tube that was broken. Instead, it was a glass cover 
which sat in front of the actual tube. I asked AA to comment on this, but it didnt answer my 
questions and only said that parts werent available for this model so it couldnt be repaired.
AAs responses have been inconsistent and in my view fail to understand the situation Mrs 
and Mr A are in. They have been caused significant distress and inconvenience by its poor 
claims handling.
In my provisional decision I said that I dont think its relevant how Mrs and Mr A obtained 
their temporary replacement TV. AA has partially responded to this saying that Its not 
unreasonable for us to request proof of ownership or proof of purchase which would agree 
with its claims condition that says We are entitled to receive from you any help and 
information we may need. 
I agree with AAs statement here, but I dont think its fair of AA to ask for this information in 
the way that it did, when the item in question was simply a temporary replacement for their 
family member to watch. This temporary TV wasnt being claimed for and was only 
mentioned in passing by Mrs and Mr A during a call. 
AA has said that Mrs and Mr A walked away from the claim, but I dont think thats a fair 
reflection on what happened because, as I say above, I dont think AAs actions were fair in 
asking for the information. AAs use of the above claims condition is, in my opinion, too 
broad in this situation.
Taking all the evidence into hand, I dont think its reasonable for AA to reject Mrs and Mr As 
claim for the reason it has given. If AA wish to decline the claim for other reasons, then AA 
need to let Mrs and Mr A know that and allow them the opportunity to respond.
Should Mrs and Mr A wish to continue to make their claim then they should do so, subject to 
the terms and conditions of their policy. If their claim is declined, they can complain to AA, 
and this service in due course, if they remain unhappy. 
I dont think AA has acted fairly throughout this claim. I can see from Mrs and Mr As 
evidence that AAs actions have caused them distress and inconvenience throughout, and I 
think £200 is reasonable compensation for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to:Remove any markers its placed on internal and any external systems showing the 
claim had been declined.
Handle Mrs and Mr As claim for their damaged TV without reference to the claims 
condition mentioned above.
Pay Mrs and Mr A £200 compensation for their distress and inconvenience following 
its poor claims handling.
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mrs and Mr A accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it 
must also pay interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman