DRN-3407805
The complaint
Miss B is complaining that Acorn Insurance & Financial Services Ltd told her it had 
processed a request shed made to change the car insured under her car insurance policy 
but it didnt do so. 
What happened
Miss B took out a car insurance policy through Acorn  a broker. In April 2021 she emailed 
Acorn to ask to change the car on her policy. She says she received an email from Acorn 
saying it had carried out the change, so she continued to drive her new car. However, she 
was later stopped by the police for driving without insurance and ultimately her car was 
impounded. She contacted Acorn who told her the change in car hadnt been done. The 
police ultimately scrapped her car because Miss B was unable to pay the release fee. 
Miss B complained to Acorn that it had told her it had changed her car after she emailed it to 
do so, but it hadn't done so. Acorn didnt uphold her complaint as it said it hadnt told her the 
change had been done and it said it had later emailed her to ask that she call if she wasn't 
able to do it online. It said the initial email it sent Miss B that she was referring to was a 
holding email.
I wrote to both parties saying I intended to uphold this complaint and I said the following:
While I accept the initial email it sent her was a holding email, I think it does set out that the 
change had been actioned as it said the following:
"If you have requested a change of vehicle with immediate cover, this is currently in place 
and you can drive your new vehicle straight away. If you have only requested a quote, then 
this will be sent out to you in the next 48 hours. Please note that any change in vehicle may 
take up to 5 working days to show on the MID, but you are insured during this time."
Miss B asked to process a change of vehicle  she didn't ask for a quote. So I think it was 
fair for her to conclude from this email that she was insured to drive the replacement vehicle. 
And I think Acorn has mislead her.
I acknowledge Acorn then subsequently emailed her asking her to call. But I don't think the 
wording of this email is clear either. It said:
"If you would like to make a change on your policy but are unable to access the online 
system please call us on 01704339000 and one of our agents will be able to provide you 
with a quote and confirm the details."
I need to think whether the content of this email is enough for me to think Miss B should 
have stopped driving the car and immediately called. Miss B has told us she had difficulties 
accessing the online system, but she was clearly told the change had gone through. I don't 
think there is anything in the email Acorn sent on 9 April for her to think she needed to 
disregard the initial email. It doesn't say the change hasn't gone through or say she wasn't 
insured to drive the new car. So, I don't think there was any reason for her to recognise she 
wasn't insured on the new car as she had been told the change had gone through. And this 
has ultimately resulted in her being stopped for driving without insurance and her car being 
impounded.
I note Acorn offered to provide her with a letter of indemnity. This would have helped Miss B 
with any forthcoming prosecution, but Acorn sent it to the wrong email address on two 
occasions. Ultimately, Miss B's car was disposed of by the police before Miss B received the 
letter of indemnity.
Taking everything into consideration, I think Acorn did treat Miss B unfairly and is 
responsible for her driving while uninsured. I also think it should have taken steps to prevent 
the car from being disposed of, but its further errors have resulted in the loss of the car. I 
think Acorn is liable for this loss.
Ultimately, I'm minded to uphold this complaint and require Acorn to do the following:
1. Pay Miss B the car's market value based on its value at the time she was stopped for 
driving without insurance;
2. Pay 8% simple interest on this payment from the date the car was impounded until it 
issues settlement; and
3. Pay Miss B £750 for the distress and inconvenience for being stopped and taken to the 
police station for driving without insurance, the threat of being prosecuted for driving 
without insurance and for the loss of her car.
Acorn responded to accept my initial findings but said it would pay Miss B £500 for the car 
because thats what she initially valued it at. Miss B didnt think £500 was a fair reflection of 
the cars market value.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has given me anything to think about regarding what I said about Acorns 
actions regarding the change of vehicle, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to 
what I reached before. So I uphold this complaint for the reasons I set out above.
However, I dont think £500 is a fair valuation of Miss Bs vehicle. I recognise Acorn says this 
is what was declared as the cars market value, but I dont think its an accurate reflection of 
the loss that shes suffered. Its standard practice for the industry to use valuation guides to 
work out the estimated market value of a car. Ive reviewed the valuations the guides give for 
Miss Bs car and this gives a range between £1,370 and £1,410. So I think a fairer valuation 
of the cars market value is £1,390.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I require Acorn Insurance & 
Financial Services Ltd to pay Miss B £1,390 for the loss of her car. I also require it to pay her 
£750 in compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience shes suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman