DRN-3880471
The complaint
Mr O complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has unfairly deducted a 
Market Value Reduction (MVR) from the value of his pension savings when he asked that 
they be transferred to another provider. He says that Prudential failed to make him aware 
that his pension plan had been amended such that a MVR could be applied. And he says 
that Prudential changed his normal retirement age (NRA) without his agreement, so 
denying him the opportunity to take his pension benefits without a MVR being applied.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2022. In that decision 
I explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a 
copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this 
decision, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr O held pension savings with Prudential. Those pension savings had arisen as a 
result of additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) that Mr O made in addition to 
pension benefits he accrued in an occupational pension scheme. Prudential 
managed the AVC scheme on behalf of the occupational scheme. Mr O first started 
to make his AVC payments more than thirty years ago.
In 2011, Mr O entered a phased retirement agreement with his employer. At that time 
he told Prudential that he wanted to cease making contributions to his AVC plan, but 
wished to retain the scheme. And he told Prudential that he didnt want to take his 
AVC benefits at that time. It appears that Prudential recorded Mr Os wishes as being 
an indefinite deferment of his retirement date. Mr O took his pension benefits from 
the main occupational scheme in 2013 when hed reached 65 years of age. But he 
didnt take his AVC benefits at that time.
In October 2020 Mr O asked Prudential to transfer his AVC pension savings to 
another provider. At that time Prudential confirmed to Mr O that it would be applying 
a MVR to the value of his pension savings. Mr O complained to Prudential about the 
MVR that had been applied.
When Prudential looked into Mr Os complaint it identified that a target retirement 
date (TRD) of 27 March 2012 had been applied to his policy. Whilst it noted that a 
TRD has no financial impact on the policy it had been unable to identify when, or 
why, that TRD had been added. So it paid Mr O £125 for the inconvenience hed 
been caused. But Prudential said that the implementation of a MVR had been fair 
and its calculations had been correctly carried out.
The AVC policy that Mr O held was taken out more than 30 years ago. So it is 
unsurprising that, over the intervening years, some of the relevant documentation 
has become lost. I dont draw any adverse conclusions from that missing 
documentation  generally businesses arent required to keep correspondence and 
other documents indefinitely. But it does present me with some difficulties when 
seeking a definitive answer to some of the matters that Mr O has raised.
I think it would be first helpful to share my understanding about the various 
components of the AVC policy that underpins Mr Os complaint. His AVC policy was 
operated by Prudential on behalf of his occupational pension scheme. And ultimately, 
since Mr O was a teacher, changes to the AVC scheme would need to be agreed by 
the Secretary of State for Education. Once he had taken the AVC policy Mr O was 
then able to choose how to invest his contributions. He chose to place his 
contributions in Prudentials With Profits fund. But the documentation from the time 
also suggests other investment options such as a range of unit linked funds, or the 
use of a Deposit fund that was described as operating in a similar manner to a 
building society account.
With profits funds are a type of pooled investment fund. Consumers pay into the 
fund along with a number of other investors and their money, along with that of the 
other members, is put together and invested in stocks, shares, equities, bonds and 
property over a set period of time. This diversity, and the ability to change the 
proportions invested in each of these types of investment, helps to balance the level 
of risk and the expected increases in the fund value in the long run.
 
What distinguishes with profits funds from other pooled funds is smoothing. 
Smoothing aims to reduce the direct impact of market changes on the fund 
investments and means that investors are less directly exposed to rises and falls in 
the value of their investments over the shorter-term. This is of great benefit especially 
where a with profits fund is being used to fund something which happens at a specific 
date such as retirement.
But over time it became clear that consumers taking some or all of their benefits from 
the fund at other times might result in them receiving an unfair share of the 
underlying assets. So, for smoothing to work, there needs to be a mechanism to 
protect the whole fund from being depleted by investors trying to exit after for 
example a market fall. This protection is the MVR about which Mr O is complaining. 
They are generally intended as a short-term measure that will be removed once the 
business feels that its funds have recovered sufficiently. But sometimes they will 
continue to be applied for extended periods.
MVRs were relatively rare before 2001 so I think it unlikely that it would have been 
something that Mr O was aware of when he first agreed to pay into the AVC policy. 
I dont know when Prudential first made consumers aware that MVRs might be 
applicable to their pension savings. And Prudential hasnt been able to locate any 
specific correspondence about its introduction. But Prudential has provided a copy of 
a letter it sent to Mr O in 2008 that made reference to the possibility of a MVR being 
applied in the future. And it seems that the regular annual statements Mr O has 
received from Prudential since around that time also contained similar information.
In 2011 Mr O was required to complete a form for Prudential when he asked to defer 
taking his AVC benefits. Although I will consider that form in a little more detail later 
in this decision, it does also provide information about a MVR being applicable to 
Mr Os AVC savings  although at that time the MVR was quoted as being nil.
So although Im not able to determine exactly when, or how, Mr O was first made 
aware that a MVR might be applied to his policy, Im satisfied that he would have 
been aware, by around 2011 at the latest that there was a possibility of a MVR being 
applied in the future. And, although in 2011 the MVR was shown as being nil, Mr O 
took no steps to move his AVC investments into an alternative fund. So my conclusion must reasonably be that the future possibility of a MVR being applied 
didnt make the with-profits fund unattractive to Mr O.
As I said earlier, Mr O has pointed out that changes to the AVC scheme required the 
consent of the Secretary of State for Education. But I dont think the introduction of 
the MVR falls with the scope of that definition of a change. The AVC scheme 
remained the same, and consumers were able to place their AVC savings into the 
with-profits fund, or the other available investments. What had changed were the 
terms of one of the investment funds. I dont think changes such as that should be 
considered to be a change to the scheme as a whole.
In line with many funds of this nature, Prudential didnt apply a MVR at two distinct 
events. The MVR wasnt applicable if AVC benefits were taken, or transferred, at the 
normal scheme retirement age of 65. And it wasnt applicable if the benefits were 
being taken, or transferred, following the death of the member. So it might have been 
possible for Mr O to have taken his pension benefits in 2013, when he reached the 
normal scheme retirement age, without the application of the MVR.
 
When Mr O took phased retirement in 2011, it doesnt seem that was something that 
Prudential would normally expect to deal with. Mr O has said that it was a relatively 
unusual approach, and that in fact his own employer stopped making any further 
offers of that nature after his phased retirement had been agreed. So I wouldnt be 
surprised that Prudential didnt have a defined process, or paperwork, to handle 
Mr Os situation.
In 2011 Mr O wanted to stop contributing to his AVC, but retain the benefits. It seems 
that request, combined with the notification it had received of Mr Os phased 
retirement, set Prudential off down a path of dealing with a members full retirement. 
So Mr O was asked to complete a benefits claim form. Mr O returned that form 
indicating that he wished to defer buying his pension. I entirely accept that the nature 
of the form meant there was no other relevant option that he could choose. But by 
ticking that option, it seems Prudential replaced Mr Os normal retirement age of 65 
with the maximum for the scheme, that being 75 years.
So by making that change, Prudential didnt send to Mr O the paperwork that would 
normally be issued in the lead up to retirement. So it is possible that Mr O would 
have been unaware, or certainly not reminded, that reaching the normal retirement 
age of 65 gave him the opportunity to take his AVC benefits without a MVR being 
applied. But Im not persuaded that has caused any detriment to Mr O.
Firstly I dont know, and Prudential is unable to tell us, whether a MVR would have 
generally applied in April 2013 when Mr O reached age 65. As I said earlier 
Prudential wasnt applying a MVR when Mr O deferred his benefits in October 2011. 
But I accept, if by then a MVR was applicable, taking the benefits at age 65, free of a 
MVR might have been attractive.
But, as Ive already explained, I think Mr O should have been aware that a MVR 
could be applied. And he took no steps to change his AVC investments in 2011 when 
he was told they were free of any MVR. Mr O took his pension benefits from his main 
occupational scheme in 2013, but didnt take those from the AVC plan, or even 
enquire about taking the benefits from the AVC plan, at that time. So Im not 
persuaded that, taking his AVC benefits at that time, even if they were free of a MVR, 
would have been something that Mr O would have chosen even if hed received the 
appropriate reminder pack.I appreciate that what Ive decided here will be disappointing for Mr O. But I think it is 
important to remember that a MVR doesnt arbitrarily reduce the value of someones 
pension benefits. Instead it ensures that the withdrawal from the fund fairly reflect the 
underlying value of that consumers share of the fund assets. Other consumers in the 
with-profits fund will have suffered MVRs when taking their benefits in the past. And 
the effect of those MVRs will have been to protect the value of Mr Os AVC savings 
that remained in the fund at that time.
So on balance I dont currently think this complaint should be upheld. Whilst I cannot 
determine when, or how, Mr O was made aware of the introduction of the MVR by 
Prudential, I think it likely that the matter would have been explained to him. And 
Mr Os later actions, when the MVR was explained in letters and annual statements, 
lead me to conclude that he wouldnt have taken the decision to alter his investments 
even if I thought the communication of the change had been deficient. I dont think 
Prudentials failure to communicate with Mr O in the lead up to his 65th birthday 
caused him any detriment.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Prudential has said that it has nothing more to add. Mr O doesnt agree 
with my provisional decision and has provided some extensive additional comments. 
Although I am only summarising here what he has said, I want to reassure Mr O that I have 
read, and carefully considered, his entire response.
Mr O has reiterated that he still considers the introduction of the MVR to be a substantial 
change to the contractual terms of the AVC scheme. So he thinks that the change did 
require the approval of the Secretary of State. He has asked whether any evidence has been 
provided either showing that consultation took place, or that Prudential received legal or 
regulatory advice stating that no consultation was needed.
Mr O points out that smoothing of with-profits funds operated well before MVRs were 
introduced. He says that any risk was effectively managed by the use of Terminal Bonusses. 
He is concerned that there is insufficient transparency and independent audit of Prudentials 
historical bonus decisions. He feels that effectively Prudential is judge and jury without any 
meaningful accountability for its decisions.
Mr O says that, given the significant nature of the change introducing a MVR, Prudential 
should have sought his express consent for the change. If that consent had not been 
provided he thinks it would have been reasonable for Prudential to terminate his contract 
until such time that consent was provided.
Mr O accepts that when he first took out the AVC policy the normal retirement age was set at 
65 years. But he notes that subsequent changes to legislation meant that employment 
contracts could no longer require retirement at that age. So he says any normal retirement 
age in the terms of his AVC plan should no longer have applied. He says that when he 
stopped his contributions in 2011 he reasonably concluded that he could determine his own 
target retirement date. He says the only reference to an end date that he was aware of was 
that his plan needed to end by age 75.
Mr O says that his decision to cease making contributions in 2011 was not due to his phased 
retirement, although he accepts that both decisions occurred around the same time. He says 
that he wanted to retain the plan as he had no need of the additional income at that time and 
was hopeful that his investments would continue to grow and that annuity rates might 
improve. He says that at that time, although the small print of the communications from 
Prudential did refer to MVRs, he thought (wrongly) that their use would be unlikely in the 
next few years.Mr O says that Prudentials lack of evidence of him being told about the introduction of the 
MVR is most likely because no communication took place. He says that he was unaware 
how the MVR would be operated, and specifically that it wouldnt be applied at the normal 
scheme retirement age of 65. He says that when he became aware of the change he did 
consider moving his pension savings to another provider, but concluded that there would be 
little benefit in doing so. He says that had he thought about or been made aware of the 
matter earlier, he might have considered the purchase of added years benefits to be more 
suitable. But by 2011, and even some years earlier given his age, Mr O says the OPS would 
have told him that it was too late to make a change of that nature.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As in my provisional decision, in deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully 
considered all the submissions that have been made by Mr O and by Prudential, including 
those in response to my provisional findings. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
Ive thought carefully about the additional comments provided by Mr O in response to my 
provisional decision. I would like to thank him for the care and diligence he has shown in 
presenting his additional arguments. But I am sorry to tell him that those additional 
comments havent persuaded me that I should change my findings on his complaint. I would 
however like to take this opportunity to further discuss some of the matters that he has 
raised.
As Mr O will be aware I am required by the legislation to decide complaints on the basis of 
what I think is fair and reasonable. So, although I will take account of the law, I am not bound 
by legislation. This service provides an informal alternative to the Courts, and so some of my 
findings might lack the depth of evidence that Mr O has suggested needs to be present. 
Where evidence is unavailable, for whatever reason, I will use my judgement to decide what 
I think is most likely to have happened.
I remain satisfied that the changes to the with-profits investment option did not constitute a 
change to the AVC scheme in general, such that would require the consent of the Secretary 
of State. As I explained in my provisional decision that investment was one of a number of 
options available to members paying AVCs. So I dont think it necessary to explore further 
whether consent was sought for that change.
The management of with-profits investment funds is closely regulated and requires the 
publication of performance and investment data by fund managers on a regular basis. But 
the calculation of bonus amounts, or MVRs, is largely at the discretion of the investment firm. 
Those calculations need to balance the rights of investors to receive a fair return on their 
capital, together with the need to ensure the ongoing sustainability of the fund. Those arent 
matters that fall within the remit of my consideration of this complaint  should Mr O hold 
concerns over the way Prudential is operating the fund he should raise the matter with the 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority.As Mr O quite rightly points out, the absence of any evidence from Prudential showing its 
communication of the introduction of the MVR could lead to a conclusion that no 
announcement took place. But I still consider that possibility to be unlikely. I dont share 
Mr Os suspicion that Prudential took a commercial decision to introduce the change and 
hope that a lack of transparency, and the natural lack of inertia for change, would lead to 
policyholders remaining with the firm. 
Mr O has said that, around 2011, he was aware of the possibility of a MVR being applied 
and that he considered other options for his pension savings. At that time he concluded he 
had little to gain from moving to another provider  who I think would most likely also have 
applied similar MVR policies. I cannot therefore reasonably conclude that, even if Prudential 
had failed to communicate with Mr O when the MVR was first applied, better information 
would have led to a different approach from Mr O. 
In his introduction to his additional comments Mr O briefly touched on what happened when 
he was first sold the AVC plan. He has expressed concerns that he might have been better 
making added years contributions rather than taking the AVC plan. But as Mr O notes he 
has no evidence to support a claim that the AVC plan was mis-sold to him. And without him 
having made a complaint to Prudential about what happened when he first started the AVC 
plan, I cannot reasonably make any conclusions about the initial sale in this decision.
Mr O has said that his phased retirement agreement had no specified end date. So, at that 
time, he had no clear indication about when he would actually retire and take his pension 
benefits. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Prudential to take his request as an 
indefinite deferral of his retirement date, and set his normal retirement age to 75  the 
maximum allowed by the scheme. As Ive explained, that change didnt prevent Mr O from 
taking his benefits earlier, or alter his benefits in any way. It was simply Prudentials working 
estimate at that time of when Mr O might retire.
Making that change did have the impact of Mr O not being sent the normal documentation as 
he approached age 65. But as I previously explained, that would most likely have told him 
that he could take his benefits without the application of a MVR  but not because of that 
being a specified time within the rules of the scheme, but more because MVRs were not 
generally being applied at that time. As Mr O has said himself, in 2011, his expectation 
(albeit that he accepts it was incorrect) was that MVRs would be unlikely to be applied in the 
next few years. I dont think that view would have been different in 2013 when he might have 
received the scheme information as he turned 65 years of age.
I understand how disappointing my decision will be for Mr O. But my findings, as set out in 
my provisional decision remain unchanged. Whilst I cannot determine when, or how, Mr O 
was made aware of the introduction of the MVR by Prudential, I think it likely that the matter 
would have been explained to him. And Mr Os later actions, when the MVR was explained 
in letters and annual statements, lead me to conclude that he wouldnt have taken the 
decision to alter his investments even if I thought the communication of the change had been 
deficient. I dont think Prudentials failure to communicate with Mr O in the lead up to his 65th 
birthday caused him any detriment.My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman