DRN-4056290
The complaint
Mr S complains that Phoenix Life Assurance Limited (Phoenix) mis-led him about when his 
annuity payments would start and the amount of tax-free cash hed receive. 
What happened
Mr S accrued pension benefits through his former employment. The employer effectively 
pre-purchased a pension plan that Phoenix is now responsible for providing, meaning that 
Mr S was guaranteed to be paid certain pension benefits when he reached age 65 in 
February 2021. 
In September 2020, Phoenix wrote to Mr S as his retirement date was approaching. It said it 
needed confirmation of his marital status at the date he left the pension scheme, in order to 
accurately calculate the benefits due under the policy. It explained that if he was married, it 
needed information relating to his spouse at the time. I understand that Mr S divorced some 
years before taking his benefits.
In a Countdown to your retirement pack sent in January 2021, Phoenix said Mr S plan was 
worth £96,897.98. It explained the options available to him when taking his benefits:  
A full annuity of £2,939.04 a year.
A reduced annuity (in error, Phoenix mentioned the same figure of £2,939.04 again) 
and a tax-free cash lump sum. It corrected this in another letter sent in late January 
2021 and said the reduced annuity would be £2,435.76 a year with a tax-free lump 
sum of £14,695.20.
Buy an annuity from a different pension provider of Mr S choice.
Transfer the fund to another personal pension.
Postpone retirement.
Phoenix explained that if Mr S was considering deferring his pension, hed need to give at 
least 14 days notice before his normal retirement date, otherwise the option to take late 
retirement would be lost. In those circumstances, Phoenix said it would hold Mr S pension 
on account and would only be able to pay it from the selected retirement date once all of the 
necessary paperwork had been provided. It said the option to take a tax-free lump sum or 
transfer the benefits to another scheme would be lost if Mr S didnt give the required notice 
to defer. 
Mr S asked Phoenix what the value of his pension would be if he were to transfer it to 
another provider. In a letter sent in February 2021, Phoenix said the plans value was 
£104,779.38. But, due to the valuable benefits involved, Mr S was required by law to take 
financial advice before transferring. 
In another letter sent around the same time, Phoenix quoted a slightly different fund value 
(the calculations appear to have been done with effect from different dates). It said Mr S 
might be able to take his pension in one go if he transferred it to another provider. Under a 
section relating to a tax-free cash lump sum, it said Yes, usually, up to 25% of the value of 
your plan. But in another section entitled Our quote it said that the amount of lump sum Mr 
S would receive was £14,695.20 together with a reduced annuity of £2,431.56. Elsewhere, 
under a heading Postponing retirement - things to think about it said that if Mr S decided to 
postpone his retirement and bought an annuity in the future, Phoenix would increase the 
amount the annuity would pay to take account of the postponement period.
It enclosed forms for Mr S to fill in so he could select his pension benefits. 
Mr S was in touch with Phoenix over the following few months. And whilst he provided his 
ex-wifes details, he raised concerns about some of Phoenixs requests for information about 
her. He thought Phoenix should have been able to obtain the information itself. 
Mr S spoke to Phoenix on 22 June 2021. There were some technical difficulties and Phoenix 
explained it couldnt record the calls. Mr S thought hed probably be able to record it himself. 
His recollection is that Phoenix agreed hed be given the opportunity to shop around to 
decide what was best for him. And, in answer to Mr S question, he recalls Phoenix saying 
that his payments would be backdated to February 2021 when he turned age 65. 
Phoenix wrote to Mr S on 24 June 2021 as agreed during the call a couple of days earlier. It 
explained that it needed documents relating to Mr S ex-wife due to the spousal benefit that 
had been accounted for in the policy. It felt its other documentation made it clear that late 
retirement was possible but needed to be requested at least 14 days before Mr S 65th 
birthday. Even though Mr S hadnt given the required notice, it said discretion had been 
applied meaning Mr S retirement date had been deferred to his 66th birthday in February 
2022. But Phoenix made it clear that it still needed to see the documentation it had asked for 
before it paid any claims. It accepted there were issues when trying to speak by phone, so it 
offered £50 compensation for the inconvenience that caused. 
There was a call between Mr S and Phoenix on 25 June 2021 (a recording of which was 
later provided to Mr S). According to what Phoenix noted when responding to Mr S later on 
(having listened to the call) it said (in answer to Mr S question about whether payments 
would be backdated) it told him he had two options. He could take just the annuity with no 
tax-free cash lump sum. That could be paid as soon as it received the outstanding 
information it needed and payments would be made with effect from February 2021. Or, if he 
still wanted to take the late retirement option (a tax-free cash lump sum and a reduced 
annuity) once it received the information it needed, it could arrange for a new quote to be 
prepared. 
According to a quote dated 13 July 2021, Mr S fund value was £105,989.57. This entitled 
him to:
A full pension of £3,027.21 with no tax-free lump sum, or
A reduced pension of £2,496.72 a year together with a tax-free lump sum of 
£15,136.06. Phoenix explained that the amount of tax-free cash shown was the 
maximum available under Mr S plan.
In a quote sent on 4 August 2021, Phoenix said, amongst other things, that Mr S plan would 
pay him a pension of £2,504.40 a year and a tax-free lump sum of £15,246.00 (representing 
14.57% of the total pension fund value).
Mr S called Phoenix in response and asked for clarification of the values quoted. Phoenix 
was satisfied the quote was right. It added that when a policyholder takes benefits after the 
normal retirement date, it increases the pension by  of a percent for each complete month 
of deferment, beginning on the date the first instalment would have become due following the normal retirement date, ending on the last day of the month preceding when the pension 
becomes due following deferment. 
In a letter dated 7 September 2021, Phoenix again told Mr S it needed documents relating to 
his ex-wife. 
Mr S completed forms in November 2021 indicating that he wanted to take a reduced 
annuity of £2,536.56 a year together with a tax-free cash lump sum of £15,466.80 (as set out 
in an illustration sent in October 2021). 
Around the same time, he indicated hed accept the compensation offered in June 2021 in 
settlement of his complaint if Phoenix increased it to £100 from the £50 offered. 
Phoenix wrote to Mr S on 16 December 2021 to ask him for further information to enable it to 
process his annuity payments. It seems it received that information from Mr S in January 
2022. 
In February 2022 Phoenix wrote to Mr S to tell him that his annuity had been set up with 
effect from 11 January 2022. It confirmed that hed receive £2,576.64 a year before tax was 
deducted. In a separate letter, it told Mr S that a tax-free cash lump sum of £15,796.90 had 
been paid into his account. 
Mr S called Phoenix to say hed expected his annuity payments to be backdated to 
February 2021. In a letter to Mr S dated 21 February 2022, Phoenix said there was nothing 
to suggest it agreed to backdate the payments. Rather, as per its letter of 24 June 2021, it 
agreed to Mr S request to defer taking his benefits until February 2022. In doing so, it was 
satisfied it had followed its usual procedure, which was to process the claim from the day 
after it received the last of the information it needed. It said that if it hadnt agreed to defer 
benefits beyond Mr S normal retirement date of February 2021, the benefit payable would 
have been restricted to an annuity only. Whereas in Mr S case a tax-free cash lump sum 
had also been payable. 
Mr S later complained to Phoenix about a number of issues. 
Phoenix responded on 29 June 2022. It said that, having listened to a call on 25 June 2021, 
it didnt agree it had mis-led Mr S. It also said:  
Although Mr S hadnt requested late retirement within the timeframes required, it 
applied discretion in any event and deferred his retirement date to February 2022.
At no time during the call on 25 June 2021 did it say that if Mr S opted to take a 
reduced annuity and tax-free cash, his payments could still be backdated to 
February 2021. It agreed to send a copy of the call recording to Mr S.
However, Phoenix accepted it had taken some time to review Mr S concerns, so it 
agreed to pay a further compensation payment of £100 by way of an apology. 
In an email dated 19 July 2022, Mr S asked Phoenix to explain how it had calculated the tax-
free cash hed been paid. He pointed out that, 25% of £104,779.38 didnt amount to 
£15,796.90.
Phoenix explained that Mr S plan was a final salary reissue plan, from which guaranteed 
benefits were paid on retirement. It said that according to a retirement pack sent to Mr S in 
February 2021, the tax-free cash lump sum that he was entitled to was around 14.07% of his 
total pension savings (14.57% is mentioned elsewhere)  not the 25% that Mr S thought. It 
indicated that was the maximum allowed by HMRC. Phoenix wrote to Mr S again on 2 August 2022 with further explanations concerning the tax-
free cash. It included a link to a government website containing further guidance. 
Mr S complained to our Service. One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and 
didnt think Phoenix needed to take any action. She acknowledged that the documentation 
said you can usually take 25% of your pension savings immediately and that for any lump 
sum taken, 25% would usually be tax-free. However, she was satisfied that the letters sent 
to Mr S included a calculation showing the maximum tax-free cash he could take  which 
wasnt 25%. As Mr S appeared to have received what he was entitled to and in line with 
HMRC rules, the Investigator said she couldnt recommend that Phoenix paid any additional 
sums to him. She also said shed seen no evidence to suggest Phoenix agreed to backdate 
the annuity payments once hed deferred his pension.
Mr S didnt agree with the Investigator and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He was 
adamant that Phoenix told him the annuity payments would be backdated to his 65th birthday 
and says this was discussed during the call that wasnt recorded. As agreement wasnt 
reached, the matters been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S seems pretty certain that Phoenix agreed to backdate his annuity payments, even 
though he deferred his retirement date. But Phoenix didnt do that, so Mr S thinks Phoenix 
mis-led him. He also explained that Phoenixs figures didnt make sense to him, not least 
when it came to the amount of tax-free cash it paid him. Hes made the point that 25% of a 
fund worth just over £100,000 doesnt amount to a payment of less than £16,000. So, he 
clearly believes that Phoenix made a mistake when calculating the tax-free cash he was 
entitled to. 
In contrast, Phoenix doesnt agree that it committed to backdating Mr S pension payments. 
Neither does it accept that it told him hed receive a tax-free cash lump sum equal to 25% of 
his fund value.
Where theres a conflict in the evidence  as there clearly is here - I have to decide things on 
balance. That is, based on the evidence Ive seen, what I think is most likely to have 
happened. I think its also helpful in a case like this to describe some of the background 
events leading to Mr S taking his pension benefits. As thats relevant context to what later 
happened. 
Under the terms of his pension policy, Mr S had a number of options for taking his pension 
benefits once he reached age 65. Those included taking an annuity with Phoenix or 
transferring his fund to another provider. Transferring might also have enabled Mr S to take 
the fund value in one go, which wasnt something that Phoenix offered. However, due to the 
fund value and guaranteed benefits involved, by law, Mr S was required to take financial 
advice first. He was also allowed to ask Phoenix to defer his retirement date, providing he 
gave it 14 days notice (ahead of his retirement date) of his intentions. Im satisfied that 
Phoenix made all of those options clear in various letters it sent to Mr S from at least 
September 2020 onwards.
Mr S didnt select his retirement benefits before his normal retirement age. His contact with 
Phoenix around that time seemed to relate mostly to the documentation he was required to 
provide so that Phoenix could calculate the spousal benefits due under the policy. And whilst I note that Mr S had been divorced for some years prior to his normal retirement date, 
spousal payments were another guaranteed benefit from the policy. That meant Mr S was 
still required to provide the documentation  and despite what he seemed to think, it wasnt 
information that Phoenix would be expected to obtain itself. 
In any event, Phoenix allowed Mr S to defer his retirement date to his 66th Birthday, even 
though he hadnt given the required notice. That enabled Mr S to fully consider his options. 
And whilst Phoenix probably wasnt expecting to process payments until on or around Mr S 
66th birthday, Im satisfied it made it clear to him that it still needed to see the documentation 
it previously asked for before it could set up his payments.
Mr S selected his pension benefits in November 2021. He said he wanted to take a reduced 
annuity of £2,536.56 a year with Phoenix together with a tax-free cash lump sum of 
£15,466.80 (as set out in an illustration dated 11 October 2021). And once Mr S provided the 
final verification Phoenix needed, it told him in February 2022 that it had set up his payments 
with effect from January 2022 (which corresponds with when the final verification was 
received).  
As I understand the position, had Phoenix not agreed to defer Mr S retirement date, his fund 
would essentially have been held in a holding account and his full pension would have been 
paid with effect from his selected retirement date  once Phoenix had all of the information it 
needed. And it seems that some of the options that might otherwise have been available to 
Mr S may have been lost. So, I think one of the benefits to Mr S in Phoenix agreeing to defer 
his retirement was that hed still have choices when selecting his benefits. One of those 
being to take a reduced pension and a tax-free cash lump sum - which was the option that 
Mr S ultimately chose. 
But, as Ive said, Mr S was still under the impression that his pension payments would be 
backdated to his normal retirement date despite him deferring the retirement date. 
According to information that Phoenix sent Mr S as early as February 2021, under a heading 
Postponing retirement - things to think about it said it would increase the amount of any 
annuity paid to take account of the postponement period. That makes sense to me and also 
accords with my understanding of what often happens in these kinds of situations. As far as 
Im aware, a consequence of deferring retirement is that an annuity would be revalued 
meaning that it would be of a higher amount once in payment. And thats what appears to 
have happened in Mr S case. I say that because had Mr S retired in February 2021 as 
expected, hed have been due to receive an annuity of about £2,431.56 a year if he also took 
tax-free cash. Whereas, by the time Mr S took his annuity it had increased to around 
£2,536.56 a year. So, although the annuity started later than might have been expected, it 
did result in Mr S receiving a larger annuity payment for life. 
Based on those factors alone, it seems unlikely to me that an annuity would be backdated 
once it had been deferred. Not least because to do so would effectively be paying the 
policyholder twice. 
However, I appreciate Mr S has a different recollection about what was agreed. He says a 
promise was made during an unrecorded call between him and Phoenix on 22 June 2021. 
As Ive mentioned, Phoenix couldnt record the call and Mr S says his recording isnt 
accessible. Obviously, without the benefit of listening to a recording, I cant say exactly what 
was discussed. But I have seen a letter that Phoenix sent to Mr S just a couple of days after 
the 22 June 2021 call. Theres nothing specifically mentioned in the letter that makes me 
think Phoenix gave a blanket agreement to backdate payments when discussing things a 
few days before. And given that the 24 June 2021 letter was written so soon after, it does seem the type of thing that might have been mentioned - if only to reassure Mr S that he 
wouldnt lose out while thinking about his options or when trying to get hold of the 
information that Phoenix needed.
The situation is perhaps a little clearer when factoring in another call on 25 June 2021. 
Although I dont have a recording of that call either - despite asking Phoenix for it - its clearly 
listened to it and referenced it when responding to Mr S complaint. Mr S appears to have 
asked a specific question about backdated payments, to which Phoenix replied that he had 
two options. Those were to take the full annuity with no tax-free cash lump sum, with effect 
from the normal retirement date (providing Phoenix had the information it needed from Mr 
S). Or, if he still wanted to take the tax-free cash lump sum and a reduced annuity, once it 
received the information it needed, it could arrange for a new quote to be prepared. 
Its notable that Mr S doesnt appear to have disputed the content of the 25 June 2021 
phone recording having received it. If he thought it was directly at odds with what hed been 
told on 22 June 2021, it seems likely hed have again raised concerns. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest he did so. Also, had it been the case that Phoenix agreed to backdate the annuity 
regardless of the option that Mr S chose, I cant see why it wouldnt simply have answered 
yes to his question. I dont think it needed to specify the specific circumstances in which 
backdating would be allowed. But it doesnt appear to have answered the question in that 
way. That tends to suggest that if backdating was possible, it was only in very specific 
circumstances. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that those circumstances applied in Mr S 
particular case, bearing in mind that he chose to take a reduced annuity and tax-free cash. 
For all of these reasons, I cant fairly say that Phoenix mis-led Mr S. That also means I cant 
conclude he suffered a financial loss as a result of Phoenixs decision not to backdate 
payments.
Turning to Mr S expectation that hed receive 25% of his fund value as tax-free cash. It is 
fairly typical that up to 25% of a personal pension fund can be taken in that way. So, I can 
certainly understand why Mr S might have assumed that the same would apply in his case. 
But not all pension entitlements are the same. And, there are often scheme or HMRC rules 
that apply which can limit the amount of tax-free cash available from certain pensions  
including those with guaranteed benefits. That's the case for Mr S. And, contrary to what he 
seems to think, Im satisfied that Phoenixs communications did make it clear enough that he 
wouldnt be receiving 25% of his fund as tax-free cash. 
In its letter of 27 February 2021, Phoenix said under a heading Tax-free lump sumYes, 
usually, up to 25% of the value of your plan can be taken. If that had been the only 
explanation, I might have agreed that it gave Mr S the impression hed probably receive 25% 
in tax-free cash. But in another part of the letter it said under a heading our quote, that 
Mr S could expect to receive £14,695.20 in tax-free cash, which was around 15% of his fund 
value at that time. So, I think Mr S ought to have known that he was unlikely to receive 25% 
of his fund (which hovered around a value of about £100,000). Similarly, when Mr S 
completed various forms in November 2021 ahead of the deferred retirement period ending, 
he signed to say that he wanted to take a pension of £2,536.56 a year and a lump sum of 
£15,466.80 (based on the fund value at the time). And that sum is clearly not 25% of the full 
fund value. So, if he didnt understand the position before, I think Mr S ought to have done at 
the point he opted to access his pension benefits. In any event, for the reasons Ive set out, I 
dont think Phoenix did say that Mr S should expect to receive 25% of his fund in tax-free 
cash. My final decision
Taking account of everything Ive said, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman