DRN-4291620
The complaint
Mrs C complains QIC Europe Ltd withdrew cover under her legal expenses insurance to 
pursue a claim against her neighbour for cutting down trees in her garden without permission 
and causing damage.
Where I refer to QIC Europe Ltd, I include their claims handlers and agents.
What happened
Mrs C had legal expenses insurance (LEI) with QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) that included cover for 
legal action for neighbour disputes.
In March 2020 Mrs C made a claim on her policy to pursue her neighbour for cutting down 
trees on her land without permission leading to a loss of privacy, shelter from the wind and 
damage to property.
QIC initially accepted the claim and appointed panel solicitors to act on Mrs Cs behalf in 
taking action against the neighbour. But QIC withdrew cover in around October 2022 on 
grounds the prospects of making a recovery were no longer reasonable. They said since  
Mrs C had made allegations of malicious damage against the neighbour, his insurers 
wouldnt cover the claim as his policy didnt cover him for malicious damage. And what the 
panel solicitors knew about the neighbours personal financial circumstances suggested 
there werent reasonable prospects of making a successful recovery against him even if   
Mrs Cs claim succeeded. 
QIC said theyd reconsider things if Mrs C could provide evidence the neighbour had assets 
to pay any judgment against him. She told them about a business the neighbour ran with his 
sons, property and machinery theyd acquired, and properties she thought they owned. But 
without independent evidence of what the neighbour owned, QIC wouldnt reopen the claim. 
Mrs C complained. QIC didnt uphold her complaint. They said the policy required there to be 
reasonable prospects of success. Based on the panel solicitors advice, the prospects here 
were too low. And the claim was excluded since Mrs C had made allegations of malicious 
damage which had harmed her case. But if Mrs C could provide evidence of any assets the 
neighbour owned, they would reconsider the claim. Although Mrs C considered the case to 
be a criminal one, the policy didnt provide funding to pursue criminal cases. Shed need to 
involve the police if she wanted criminal charges to be brought.
Since Mrs C didnt agree, she brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator thought QIC had acted fairly in withdrawing cover. She said independent 
evidence was needed to confirm the neighbour owned the assets Mrs C had told QIC about. 
And although Mrs C felt a criminal action should have been started, the policy didnt provide 
cover for that. Since Mrs C didnt accept our investigators view, her complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Cs strength of feeling about whats happened. I understand the damage to 
her garden has affected her enjoyment of the property shes lived in for many years and 
raised concerns about its value. And Im sorry to hear about the impact events have had on 
her wellbeing. However, whilst I understand Mrs C will be disappointed, for reasons that are 
broadly similar to our investigators, I dont uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
I note Mrs C feels her claim ought to have been looked at under her buildings policy at the 
outset. Thats not part of the complaint about QIC. I am only considering here Mrs Cs 
complaint about QIC withdrawing funding under her separate LEI policy to pursue a claim 
against the neighbour. 
In line with Financial Conduct Authority rules, we expect insurers to deal with claims 
promptly and fairly and not to decline claims unreasonably. Ive considered Mrs Cs 
complaint against that background. The starting point is the LEI policy.
The policy provided funding for legal costs, up to a limit, and subject to all the terms, 
conditions and exclusions it contained, in relation to certain Insured events. They included, 
under 3. Home rights the costs of pursuing civil claims arising out of ii A legal nuisance or 
trespass (a claim that your legal rights relating to owning, living in and using your home have 
been broken). So, Mrs C had cover to pursue a civil claim against the neighbour subject to 
the remaining terms of the policy. 
However, while the fees for defending a criminal claim that might be brought against Mrs C 
for some reason were covered in certain circumstances, the costs of pursuing a criminal 
claim against someone else were not. QIC were right to say the policy wouldnt provide any 
funding for Mrs C in relation to any criminal action she might wish to take against the 
neighbour. So, even if the police were expecting QIC to contact them as Mrs Cs said, its 
unlikely QIC would have got involved in funding any criminal action.
Under Claims procedures and conditions the policy said:
If, after receiving a claim or during the course of a claim, we decide that
i.your prospects of success are too low
ii. the costs would be too high considering the value of the claim; or
iii. it would be better for you to take a different course of action
we will write to you giving our reasons why we cannot agree to the claim, and we will 
not then have to pay any further professional fees for this claim.
and
We may limit any professional fees that we will pay under the policy in pursuing or 
continuing to pursue or defend any claim if:
i. we feel it is unlikely that we will achieve a sensible settlement;
ii. the likely settlement amount is not in line with the time and expense needed 
to achieve a settlement; or
iii.your prospects of recovering any amounts you are claiming are not 
reasonable.And the policy also excluded cover for pursuing, continuing to pursueany claim if [QIC] 
consider it is unlikely that [QIC] will achieve a sensible settlement or if the likely settlement 
amount is not in proportion to the time and expense involved.
In summary, QIC would only fund a legal claim if it was and continued to be more likely than 
not that there would be a successful recovery. That would mean not only winning the case, 
but also being able to recover the money from the other side. And the case had to be cost 
effective.
These are common terms in LEI policies, and we dont consider them to be unreasonable. 
Court action is expensive. Its unlikely a private individual would spend money on pursuing a 
legal claim if there werent reasonable prospects of winning and being able to recover 
damages and costs at the end of it. We dont think its reasonable to expect an insurer to 
either.
Wed expect the prospects of success to be assessed by a qualified lawyer with the 
knowledge and expertise to advise whether a case is likely to succeed. QIC appointed one 
of their panel firms to look at that. I understand Mrs C had concerns about the experience of 
the lawyer who was acting for her. But the lawyer had several years post-qualification 
experience and handled dispute resolution. The issue in this case was whether the 
neighbour had sufficient assets to meet any award of damages and costs that might be 
made against him. It didnt require particular expertise in the field of neighbour disputes to 
consider that. 
From what I can see, Mrs Cs claim originally had good prospects of success. The neighbour 
was insured, and his insurers had admitted liability. I note Mrs Cs concern that QIC didnt 
initially accept there had been an admission of liability. But I dont think that affects the 
outcome of this complaint. Thats because the case seems to have been progressing until 
Mrs C let the neighbours insurers know she was alleging hed caused the damage 
maliciously. 
Mrs Cs policy contained an exclusion where Mrs C was responsible for anything which 
[QIC] believe harms [her] case. QIC said the exclusion applied here.
I can understand Mrs C felt it was obvious the damage had been malicious or deliberate 
since she understood the neighbour had been charged with criminal damage. The panel 
solicitors said theyd never put the claim against the neighbour on the basis there had been 
malicious damage. Mrs C felt it should have been. But it doesnt seem the criminal charges 
against the neighbour were pursued. So, I can understand why QIC would say Mrs C had 
harmed her case. Telling the neighbours insurers Mrs C was alleging malicious damage 
caused them to withdraw cover from the neighbour. So, the possibility of those insurers 
meeting the neighbours liability to pay any damages and costs Mrs C recovered was taken 
away.
Despite that, QIC asked the panel solicitors to look into the neighbours financial situation to 
check if he had sufficient assets himself to meet any claim. The solicitors appointed an 
investigator to advise on that. Although Mrs C felt the investigator hadnt got to the bottom of 
the neighbours financial situation, theres nothing obviously wrong with the report the 
investigator prepared. Hed looked into whether the neighbour owned any properties or 
companies or other assets. And he couldnt find any. The solicitors view, based on the 
report, was that there were no longer reasonable prospects of making a successful recovery. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for QIC to rely on that advice as it seems to have been a 
logical conclusion given the investigators report. And since the prospects of success were 
no longer reasonable, QIC were entitled to withdraw cover under the policy. QIC considered Mrs Cs concerns that the investigators report didnt reflect the scale of the 
neighbours business and the amount of machinery and equipment he had. They said, 
broadly, theyd look at any evidence Mrs C could provide about the ownership of those. I 
think that was fair in the circumstances. Just because Mrs C had seen the neighbour using 
certain machinery and operating his business out of certain premises, doesnt mean they 
belonged to him or would be available to satisfy any judgment Mrs C got against him. 
Under the terms of the LEI policy - 4. Carrying out a claim - Mrs C was obliged to            
co-operate with QIC and the panel solicitors and give them evidence and information they 
asked for at her own expense. So, it was reasonable for QIC to ask Mrs C to provide 
evidence her neighbour owned the assets shed identified. QIC said if she could do that, 
theyd consider the claim further. I think that was a fair way of resolving things given the 
exclusion Ive referred to.
I note Mrs Cs unhappy with the work the solicitors carried out and the time things took. The 
solicitors said failures by the neighbours solicitors to respond, the difficulty they and Mrs C 
had had in getting quotes to repair the damage and the neighbours insurers withdrawing 
cover had all affected progress. But Im not aware of any failure on the part of QIC that 
caused a delay. Even though QIC appointed them, the panel solicitors were acting for Mrs C. 
Shed need to raise any concerns about the way the solicitors handled things with them. And 
if she was unhappy with their response, she could then take her complaint to the Solicitors 
Regulation Authority.
I am sympathetic to Mrs Cs difficult circumstances. But bearing everything in mind, I dont 
think QIC have treated her unfairly in withdrawing cover. So, I dont uphold her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman