DRN-3030483
The complaint
Mr C has complained that One Call Insurance Services Limited failed to properly inform him 
that his rolling monthly motor insurance policy lapsed on 1 August 2020 ensuring he was 
driving without insurance.
Mr C is represented by his daughter. 
 
What happened
Mr C had a platinum motor policy with One Call which insured him on a rolling monthly basis 
for the policy year. When he was due to renew, Mr C phoned One Call to discuss the 
premium. It told him it wasnt going to offer this type of policy anymore, that it would lapse on 
1 August 2020 and that he would receive a call to discuss further options. That never 
happened.
Mr C then saw another payment had been taken by One Call. So, he said he was very 
surprised when he phoned One Call on 19 August 2020 he was effectively driving without 
insurance since 1 August 2020 as he had received no final confirmation his policy had 
called, plus he saw another payment being taken. Along with that the promised follow up call 
to discuss further options never happened. 
Mr C complained. One call admitted it had failed to contact Mr C with a new quotation and 
offered him £100 compensation.
Mr C did note on the call recording that he was told his policy would lapse on 1 August 2020, 
but he maintained he should have received better communication and wasnt satisfied £100 
compensation was enough. So, he brought his complaint to us. The investigator thought 
given the confusion caused by the payment coming out of Mr Cs account and the lack of 
communication One Call should pay and further £50 compensation. One Call disagreed so 
Mr Cs complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Its clear from the policy wording that the following should happen when or if One Call 
decided to change the cover it could offer Mr C. 
We hold the right to refuse renewal terms where we are unable to offer a quote with 
our insurer panel, provided we send you notice 21 days before your renewal date, 
allowing you time to find another insurer.
Its clear the duty is on One Call to abide by its policy terms and in Mr Cs case it didnt do 
this properly. More so given the contents of the telephone conversation where he was 
promised another call. Also, its standard industry practice to confirm with the policyholder 
that the policy has ended too, which One Call simply didnt do.  Had it done that irrespective 
of whether it called Mr C to provide him with further quotes for a new policy, Mr C wouldnt 
have suffered the distress that he was unwittingly driving uninsured for nearly three weeks. 
I can understand why Mr C became a little confused by the payment coming out of his 
account. Notwithstanding that this is explained in the policy terms, given the failure of One 
Call to call him again as promised and the failure to notify Mr C properly his policy had 
lapsed, the payment further unnecessarily confused things further for Mr C. 
I agree with the reasoning of the investigator that the initial £100 compensation wasnt 
enough and that a total of £150 is more reasonable given these circumstances.  
  
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require One Call Insurance Services Limited to ensure it pays Mr C the total sum of 
£150 compensation. 
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman