DRN-1964845
The complaint
 Miss W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd blocked and closed her account. Shes also 
unhappy Monzo didnt return all of the money in the account back to her and the way they 
handled things. She wants Monzo to pay her compensation for the trouble and upset she 
suffered.
What happened
  Miss W opened an account with Monzo in July 2019.
Between 1 and 3 September 2019, three payments totalling £70, were made into Miss Ws 
account. Miss W says at the time, she was preparing to leave the UK to start a new life 
overseas. So, she was selling some of her belongings which shed advertised on a well-
known internet site. And the payments were from people whod bought items from her.
On 2 and 3 September 2019, Monzo received notifications from three different banks each 
saying that their customers had been the victim of fraud. The reports explained that after 
making upfront payments to buy items advertised online by Miss W, shed blocked any 
further contact from them and not provided the goods which theyd bought.  
Monzo placed blocks on Miss Ws account, whilst it investigated the reports from the other 
banks. This meant she couldnt access the money in her account. Miss W discovered her 
account was blocked on 3 September 2019, when she tried to use her bank card for a 
purchase in a shop. 
Monzo completed its investigation, it returned the three payments back to source and 
decided to close Miss Ws account immediately. On 20 September 2019, Monzo returned 
Miss Ws closing balance, of just over £1,600 to her.
Miss W was due to fly back to Egypt on 4 September 2019. She says she was unable to 
amend her flight because Monzo had blocked her account, so she had no money. And if she 
didn't return overseas, her belongings would be thrown out from the accommodation she 
had there - as she was due to move out on 14 September 2019. So, she had little choice but 
to fly back overseas.  And, she had to borrow money from a friend to help her get out there. 
Miss W says that Monzo's actions caused her a great deal of trouble and upset. And the 
experience had an impact on her mental health. She says she had to borrow money 
from friends and was left without enough for basic essentials after she moved overseas. And 
she didn't have internet to use for work, as she was unable to pay for it. 
Miss W has also explained that when she contacted Monzo to try and sort things out the 
customer service she received was atrocious, scripted and unhelpful. She says she spoke to 
a manager at the bank who was abusive towards her and was unsympathetic. She also felt 
the messages she sent were not being read properly and was unhappy about constantly 
having to speak to different advisors. And, when her account was closed, her phone number 
was blocked. 
To put things right, she'd like Monzo to pay her £500.00 for the trouble and upset caused by 
Monzo. And, she wants the £70.00 which Monzo returned to the other banks. 
Monzo said it hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked and closed Miss Ws account. 
And sent money back to source. But it agreed that they could've provided Miss W with better 
service  in particular that it should have dealt with Miss Ws calls more sympathetically, 
given her clearer information and could have done things quicker given her circumstances. 
So, it paid Miss W £130 compensation for the delays and poor service.  
Following this, Monzo offered Miss W a further £80 for the inconvenience caused by it 
blocking Miss Ws number. Miss W didnt accept Monzos further offer. She said it doesnt 
adequately reflect the amount of trouble and upset she suffered. So, she brought her 
complaint to this service where one of our investigators looked into things for her. 
The investigator said Monzo hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked and closed 
Miss Ws account. And had done so in line with the account terms and relevant regulations. 
However, she thought Monzo shouldve completed its review quicker especially in light of 
Miss Ws circumstances, so she said Monzo should increase its offer and pay Miss W £125 
compensation for the delays. And also £80 for blocking her number. Miss W disagreed. She 
says she knows of other Monzo customers who have received £500 compensation. And 
shes said she is still £70 out of pocket because Monzo sent money back to other banks.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, and the evidence. Miss W 
and Monzo have read the investigators view. So, I wont repeat every detail here, only those 
which form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure Miss W that Ive read the file, 
including her comments and evidence.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Ill deal first of all with Monzos decision to restrict Miss Ws account whilst it looked into the 
concerns expressed to it by other banks about payments Miss W had received into her 
account. Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the 
circumstances for Monzo to have acted in the way that it did. Fraud is a serious matter, and 
one way banks can help to tackle fraudulent payments is by restricting accounts when 
allegedly fraudulent payments are received into them.
Monzo has explained that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Thats in 
line with what most banks would do in the same situation. And it enabled Monzo to consider 
how best to react to the reports it had received from the three other banks.
The timing of Monzos actions was unfortunate. Miss W was in the process of leaving the UK 
to start a new life overseas at the time. And she needed to be able to meet the cost of her 
everyday living expenses including paying for somewhere to live abroad, utilities and 
necessary visas. So, I can understand why she found this experience with Monzo stressful 
and upsetting. And why she wants the bank to pay her compensation.  
As the investigator has already explained, all banks have a legal obligation to comply with 
various laws and regulations. Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that Monzo was complying with its obligations when it blocked and reviewed Miss Ws account. So, whilst I 
accept this caused Miss W inconvenience, I cant say Monzo treated her unfairly when it 
blocked her account. 
Miss W says that the £70 paid into her account shouldnt have been returned to source. And 
shes now out of pocket. But banks must be able to talk to each other to protect their 
customers when money has been sent to the wrong account or they believe fraud has taken 
place. And this is what happened here. The other banks told Monzo that three credits paid 
into Miss Ws account were fraudulent  that its customers hadnt received anything after 
sending money to Miss W. So, it returned the money to the other banks. 
Ive looked at the evidence which Monzo relied on to return the money. And I can see that 
each report from the other banks were identical in circumstances  they said that Miss W 
had asked for payment upfront via bank transfer and then blocked any contact from the 
potential buyers. I find this too much of a coincidence to be simply a buyer/seller dispute. 
And Ive not seen any evidence that Miss W sold any goods for which she received the three 
payments, such as evidence of postage or collection. I also think the timing of the reports is 
significant as Miss W was due to leave the UK on 4 September 2019. So, Ive not seen 
enough evidence to conclude Miss W was entitled to the £70 paid into her account. And 
when I weigh everything up, I cant say Monzo were wrong in taking the actions it did in 
returning the three payments to source. So, Im not going to ask Monzo to return the money 
to Miss W.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Miss Ws account. Its generally for banks to 
decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Monzo closed Miss Ws bank immediately. Having looked at all the evidence, in my view that 
wasnt unreasonable. And Im satisfied that the bank acted in line with the account terms and 
relevant regulations. So, I cant say the bank has done anything wrong when it closed 
Miss Ws account without notice.
Monzo accepts it shouldve provided Miss W with better service  and could have done 
things quicker especially after Miss W let them know about her circumstances on 3 
September 2019 during a call. Miss W told Monzo that she needed the money in her account 
to pay for living expenses overseas and was at risk of eviction because she couldnt afford to 
pay for her accommodation. Miss W says during this call the Monzo staff member was 
abusive towards her. Ive listened to the call and dont agree. But I do think the advisor could 
have done more to help Miss W by passing the information onto the relevant team, which 
mightve meant Miss W wouldve gained access to her funds sooner than she did. 
I can also see that each time Miss W contacted Monzo she was referred to another team, so 
she had to repeat what had happened, and still wasnt able to get the information she 
wanted. The situation was made more difficult because after Monzo closed Miss Ws 
account it blocked her phone number, so she wasnt able to call the bank to try and sort 
things out. And given Miss Ws was overseas, without access to the money in her account, 
Ive no doubt this caused her a good deal of frustration and worry. So, Im satisfied she 
suffered unnecessary trouble and upset. 
Monzo has accepted it should have dealt with things better. It apologised and has already 
paid her £130 compensation. It has also agreed to pay her a further £205. So thats £335 in total. I appreciate Miss W was left in a difficult situation as a result of Monzos poor service. 
And I know Miss W wont agree, but I dont think it necessary to award any more. 
  
My final decision
  For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Ws complaint and direct Monzo Bank 
Ltd to pay Miss W:
£80 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the bank blocking her phone 
number and
£125 for delays in releasing Miss Ws account balance
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman