DRN-2541676
The complaint
Mr C complains about four loans that he took out with PDL Finance Limited, trading as       
Mr Lender, (PDL), which he said were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr C was given four instalment loans by PDL from September 2018 to May 2019. All the 
loans have been repaid.
A summary of the loans taken out by Mr C is shown below:
Loan 
number Date of loan Repayment 
dateLoan 
amount Number of monthly 
repayments 
1. 15/9/18 26/9/18 £250 3
2. 2/10/18 28/2/19 £450 3
3. 1/3/19 15/5/19 £200 3
4. 15/5/19 25/5/20 £1,000 12
In its final response letter, PDL said that it had carried out thorough affordability checks and 
credit checks with a credit reference agency. PDL didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint as it was 
unable to ascertain how the loans issued didnt meet its responsible lending criteria. But as a 
gesture of goodwill, it offered Mr C a £25 voucher and to remove the adverse entries from 
his credit file.
Our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that Loans 3 and 4 should be upheld. He said that by Loan 3 
Mr C had shown signs that he was struggling to repay some of his previous loans with PDL. 
This was because Mr C deferred Loan 2 twice and hed returned for Loan 3 a day after   
Loan 2 was settled. Additionally, hed said that PDL had noted prior to approving Loan 3 that 
Mr C was paying £893 towards other short term loans, which was a significant increase in 
the amount Mr C had said he was paying prior to approving Loan 2 (£295). The adjudicator 
thought this should have prompted PDL to find out more information about Mr Cs financial 
circumstances, specifically surrounding his other short term loans. Had it done this he 
thought PDL would have found out that Mr C was struggling to manage his finances. Mr C 
had at least five other short term loans already outstanding with other lenders when Loan 3 
was approved. The bank statements Mr C had provided to this service showed payments 
being made to multiple other short term lenders prior to Loan 3 being approved. In these 
circumstances, the adjudicator thought there was a significant risk Mr C wouldve been 
unable to sustainably meet his monthly repayments for this loan  and any subsequent 
loans.
PDL disagreed. With regard to the two deferrals on Loan 2, it said that these should not be
viewed as a sign of financial difficulty and Mr C went on to settle his loan without any
issues. It agreed that Mr C applied for Loan 3 the day after Loan 2 was settled. But there 
was a significant decrease in capital borrowed. The loan amount was less than half the 
amount borrowed for Loan 2. PDL also noted the increase in Mr Cs expenditure due to an 
increase in other loans. But its credit search showed there were no payday loans 
outstanding when Loan 3 was approved. So, it didnt believe either loan should be upheld.
The adjudicator responded to say that whilst he appreciated that the principal amount for 
Loan 3 had decreased, Mr C still returned the day after Loan 2 had been settled for Loan 3 
and the amount borrowed was not dissimilar to the amount required to settle Loan 2. This 
coupled with the deferrals Mr C required during Loan 2 indicated that Mr C was struggling to 
repay his loans with PDL.
PDL responded to say that the FCA limited the extension of loans to two rollovers. So, two 
deferrals were in line with current regulations. It also queried why the adjudicator had 
highlighted the Loan 3 amount as being similar to the repayment for Loan 2 to show that    
Mr C had difficulty in repaying the loans. The lender also felt that it would have been
disproportionate to request bank statements at this stage of the borrowing relationship.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it had been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to investigate.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C 
and to PDL on 24 December 2020. I summarise my findings:
When PDL lent to Mr C the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The CONC 
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
CONC said that a lender needed to check that a consumer could afford to meet his 
repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant a consumer being able to meet his 
repayments out of his normal income without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks PDL needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Mr C would be able to meet his repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).PDL made a number of checks before it lent to Mr C. It asked him for details of his monthly 
income and expenditure. Mr C had declared his monthly income as £2,210 before all the 
loans and his expenditure as between £810 and £1,561. Mr C had told it that he lived with 
his parents and just contributed £200 towards rent. Hed declared that his other expenditure 
was spent on food/travel, phone, loan payments and other regular outgoings. PDL said that 
it had considered Mr Cs loan repayments before lending. 
PDL also said that it had checked Mr Cs credit file before agreeing to the loans. PDL had 
provided this service with a brief summary of its credit checks. These showed that Mr C 
wasnt bankrupt or in an individual voluntary arrangement. 
I couldnt see that wed received a credit report from Mr C. So, I couldnt say there were any 
entries on that which might have caused PDL additional concerns. 
But I was also aware that when a lender carried out a credit check, the information it saw 
didnt usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit report would, and it 
wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware that not all payday and 
short term lenders reported to the same credit reference agencies. So, this might have 
explained any differences between the information provided by PDLs credit check and      
Mr Cs actual situation.
Although the amounts that Mr C needed to repay each month were smaller than if hed taken 
a normal payday loan, he was also committing to making those repayments over a longer 
period.
Loan 1 was for £250 and Loan 2 was for £450 and were each repayable by three monthly 
repayments. The highest monthly repayment on each loan ranged from around £171 to 
£251. 
Id thought about whether PDLs checks were proportionate for Loans 1 and 2. I could see 
that the information Mr C gave PDL about his income and expenses indicated that the loan 
repayments were affordable.  And I didnt think the repayment amounts on Loans 1 and 2 
were so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Mr C financial difficulty.
I thought that the checks PDL had carried out before agreeing Loans 1 and 2 were 
proportionate. And given Mr Cs repayment amounts and repayment history, I didnt think it 
wouldve been proportionate for PDL to have asked him for the amount of information that 
would have been needed to show the lending was unsustainable. So, I didnt think PDL was 
wrong to give Loans 1 and 2 to Mr C. 
I accepted that Mr Cs actual circumstances might not have been reflected in the information 
hed provided to PDL before Loans 1 and 2. But in the absence of anything to suggest that it 
was likely to be unreliable, I thought PDL was entitled to rely on the information Mr C had 
provided before those loans. I didnt think there was any reason for PDL to doubt the 
information Mr C had given it at that stage. Loans 1 and 2 were his first loans with PDL and 
the repayments were relatively modest. PDL was also aware that Mr C lived with his parents 
and didnt pay the usual household outgoings other than his contribution of £200 to rent.
I noted that Mr C had repaid his first repayment on Loan 2 on the due date. But he then 
elected to defer the repayment of the capital element of the second repayment and just paid 
the interest of £72. And he also elected to defer the repayment of the capital element of the 
third repayment and paid £50 ten days before the due date. Mr C then repaid the 
outstanding amounts a month and two months after the third scheduled repayment date. Id 
noted that this option was permitted by Condition 3 of the loan agreement.Whilst I appreciated that the two deferred repayments were in line with PDLs terms and 
conditions, and that PDL didnt breach FCA regulations by permitting two rollovers, I didnt 
think Mr C would have exercised the option to defer unless his finances were under 
pressure. This was because the two deferrals meant that hed be paying an extra £145.20 in 
added interest. I also thought that deferrals generally indicated that borrowers might be 
having difficulties managing their finances as they couldnt keep to the contractual 
repayment schedule. 
In addition, Mr Cs final repayment on Loan 2 was £183.60. The next day hed borrowed 
£200 on Loan 3 from PDL. I thought it was likely that Mr C needed to borrow this amount in 
order to fill a hole in his finances that was made by making the repayment to PDL the 
previous day. I didnt think this was a sustainable form of borrowing notwithstanding that the 
loan was for a lower amount than hed previously borrowed.  
Whilst it seemed on the face of it that the repayments for Loan 3 would have looked 
relatively modest compared to Mr Cs declared disposable income, I thought PDL also ought 
to have queried why someone with a large declared disposable income would be needing to 
borrow more expensive credit. So altogether, I thought PDL ought to have looked into Mr Cs 
financial situation in more detail before lending to him on this occasion. I couldnt see that it 
had done this.
Mr C had provided his bank statements for the period around the time of Loan 3 and Id 
carefully looked at these to see what better checks would have shown PDL. I was not 
suggesting here that PDL ought to have done so. But I thought looking at this information 
gave me the best picture of what the lender would likely have seen. I could see from the 
bank statements that Mr C had at least nine short term loans from other lenders which were 
to be repaid at the same time as Loan 3. He also had two high cost credit loans including 
one for £1,200 taken within the previous month. So, had PDL made better checks here, I 
thought it was likely to have seen that Mr C was having difficulty managing his money and 
unlikely to be in a position to sustainably repay further credit. So, as a responsible lender, I 
thought it would have declined this loan.
Loan 4 was Mr Cs fourth loan in around eight months. Hed been borrowing from PDL for 
most of that time with only a weeks gap. The loan was for £1,000 which was five times 
higher than Mr Cs previous loan. I thought by the time of Loan 4, the higher loan amount 
and the fact that the loan was taken out on the same day that Loan 3 was repaid might have 
suggested to PDL that Mr C had some longer term financial problems rather than just using 
the loans to help with a temporary cash flow problem. 
In addition, Id noted that Mr C was committing to repay Loan 4 over 12 months. That was a 
substantial commitment that he was entering into, and so I thought PDL should have taken 
great care to ensure that Mr C was able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. So, I 
thought PDL should have been concerned about whether it knew enough about Mr Cs true 
financial situation and that PDL should have taken steps to independently verify his true 
financial position. Looking at the checks it did, I didnt think it had done this.
Id carefully looked at Mr Cs bank statements for the month before Loan 4 to see what better 
checks would have likely suggested to PDL. In the three weeks prior to Loan 4, I could see 
that Mr C had taken out two short term loans totalling £1,050 which would have been 
repayable at the same time as Loan 4. And I could also see that he had in addition eight 
short term loans and two high cost credit loans outstanding which would also be repayable 
at the same time as Loan 4. I thought the extent and nature of Mr Cs borrowing would likely 
have shown PDL that he was having significant difficulties managing his money if it had 
made better checks. And I thought these difficulties would have suggested that there was a real risk that Mr C wasnt going to be able to sustainably repay Loan 4 and the potential 
difficulties or adverse consequences for him. So as a responsible lender, I didnt think PDL 
should have agreed to give Loan 4 to Mr C 
Subject to any further representations by Mr C or PDL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to order PDL to put things right as 
shown below. 
In deciding what redress PDL should fairly pay in this case Id thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr C from Loan 3, as I was satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr C might have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he might not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, Mr C might have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, Mr C might have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which might or might not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Id seen in this case, I certainly didnt 
think I could fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, I was not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, Id said it wouldnt be fair to now reduce PDLs liability in this case for what I was 
satisfied it had done wrong and should put right.
putting things right  what PDL needs to do
1. Refund the interest and fees Mr C paid for Loans 3 and 4; 
2. Pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement; 
3. Remove any adverse information about Loans 3 and 4 from Mr Cs credit file. 
*HMRC requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. If Mr C asks PDL for a certificate 
showing how much tax PDL has taken off, it should provide this. 
Mr C responded to the provisional decision to say that he had no further points about the 
case he wished to add. He said he was happy with the provisional outcome.
PDL responded to the provisional decision by asking that I review certain aspects of my 
decision and it commented as follows:-
1. PDL said that two deferral payments were not a sign of financial difficulty. The option 
allows a consumer flexibility when repaying a loan. This should not be viewed in a 
negative way.
2. Having reviewed Mr C's full history with it prior to Loan 3, PDL could see that not only 
was it still relatively early in the borrowing relationship, but the amount borrowed on Loan 3 also decreased by a significant amount. Due to the stage of borrowing and 
the decrease in amount, PDL didnt ask or request anything further as there was no 
cause to indicate that the loan was not being used for its intended purpose. Whilst it 
had not obtained proof of what the loan was being used for or what Mr Cs 
disposable income was being used for, it did not believe that based on its checks and 
the stage of borrowing, that this action was necessary.
3. Prior to issuing Loan 4, PDL verified Mr C's income via payslips. It also asked Mr C 
some assessment questions in order to ensure he was financially stable and not in 
any difficulty. Mr C said he wasnt in any kind of financial difficulty and wouldnt be 
using the loan to pay off any other short-term loans. He said that he didnt have any 
short-term loans that hed missed payments on. Mr C also said that hed be using the 
loan to book a holiday and to pay for car repairs. In addition, hed said that he didnt 
consider himself dependent on this type of credit. PDL said that Mr C signed a 
contract confirming that the information he provided during the application was true 
and complete.
4. At the time of Mr Cs application for Loan 4, PDL did not feel that it was proportionate 
to request Mr C's bank statements. Having reviewed the results of its checks, there 
was no reason to request anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I have considered carefully PDLs response to my provisional findings. I appreciate that this 
will be very disappointing for it, but I am still of the view that it was irresponsible for it to have 
agreed Loans 3 and 4 for Mr C. Ive explained my reasons in my provisional decision and 
also below using the same numbering as above.
1.  PDL said that the two deferrals provided Mr C with flexibility and was not a sign of 
financial difficulty. I can accept that extending a loan once isnt automatically a sign of 
financial difficulty. But I think that extending a loan twice couldve been a sign that Mr C was 
having some difficulties. So, I think it wouldve been reasonable for PDL to have gathered 
some further information from Mr C here. 
2. In reaching my decision Id considered that Mr C had borrowed a reduced amount on 
Loan 3. But by the time of Loan 3, I didnt think that PDL should have regarded this reduced 
borrowing as a reason not to carry out what I consider to be proportionate checks. Loan 3 
was Mr Cs third loan in less than six months, and it was the second time that Mr C had 
reborrowed shortly after his previous loan being repaid. I didnt think it was fair of PDL to 
continue to rely on the information Mr C gave when assessing the risk to him of repaying 
Loan 3 sustainably, given the two deferrals on Loan 2, and that Loan 3 was taken out the 
day after Loan 2 was repaid. I think this suggested Mr C was most likely unable to repay his 
previous loan without taking out a new one and was borrowing again to fill a gap in his 
finances. This isnt a sustainable form of borrowing. In addition, PDL was aware that Mr Cs 
short term borrowing elsewhere had increased by about £600 since his previous loan 
application. 
So, taking all these factors into account, I think PDL ought to have gathered a more 
comprehensive view of Mr Cs financial situation and verified the information hed provided. Im not suggesting PDL should have declined further credit for Mr C outright, but it ought to 
have understood more about his circumstances before agreeing to lend again. I cant see 
that it did so. So, I dont think the checks PDL carried out were proportionate before Loan 3. 
Had PDL enquired further it would have learnt that Mr C wasnt likely to be able to meet his 
repayments in a sustainable way because of the extent of his outstanding short term loan 
commitments elsewhere.
3 I note that PDL had referred to Mr Cs replies to its assessment questions and it said that 
Mr C had confirmed that hed provided true and complete information. I think that PDL was 
entitled to rely on what it was being told up to a point. But I also think that PDL ought to have 
considered why a person with an apparent high level of available income would need to 
borrow expensive credit again for a fourth time in eight months with only a weeks break in 
borrowing. I also think that Mr Cs repeated need for more credit very shortly after repaying 
previous loans might have suggested to PDL that it could no longer rely on the information 
Mr C had provided before Loan 4. And the additional questions didnt absolve PDL from its 
obligation to assess the risk to Mr C and make a fair decision. So, I think PDL should have 
sought more assurances about Mr Cs finances. 
4.I note that PDL said it was disproportionate to obtain bank statements before Loan 4 and 
there was no reason to request anything further. I disagree. As Ive said above, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks may be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors may point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably do more to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include a higher 
amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher repayment 
from a particular level of income). And such factors also include the longer period of time 
that a consumer would be indebted for. This reflects the fact that the total cost of credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make repayments for an extended 
period. 
Loan 4 was for an amount five times greater than Mr Cs previous loan amount and more 
than double the amount of his previous highest loan amount. And Mr C would need to meet 
repayments, potentially, for 12 months. So, I think the substantially higher loan amount and 
far longer loan term should have caused PDL concerns. Mr C was entering into a substantial 
commitment by taking out Loan 4 and PDL should have taken great care to ensure that Mr C 
was able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. Im not suggesting PDL should have 
declined Loan 4 outright, but it ought to have understood more about his circumstances 
before agreeing to lend Loan 4. 
The regulations arent prescriptive about what checks a lender ought to do. So PDL didnt 
necessarily have to ask Mr C for his bank statements. PDL could have asked Mr C for more 
information about his living costs, other commitments and debts. And it could have asked 
him to see proof of these in another form or used whatever means it thought appropriate to 
satisfy itself that it had an accurate picture of Mr Cs circumstances.
As Ive explained, had PDL enquired further it would have learnt that Mr C wasnt likely to be 
able to meet his repayments in a sustainable way because of the extent of his outstanding 
short term loans and high cost credit commitments elsewhere. I think its likely PDL would 
have understood that Mr C wasnt in a position to repay more credit sustainably, had it 
carried out proportionate checks here and wouldnt have agreed to lend Loan 4.
So, after considering the points made by PDL, Im not persuaded to change my findings from 
those set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and 
require PDL to pay Mr C some compensation and take the steps set out below. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, to pay the compensation and 
take the steps set out below:
1. Refund the interest and fees Mr C paid for Loans 3 and 4; 
2. Pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement; 
3. Remove any adverse information about Loans 3 and 4 from Mr Cs credit file. 
*HMRC requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. If Mr C asks PDL for a certificate 
showing how much tax PDL has taken off, it should provide this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman