DRN-3241081
The complaint
Mr B complains about We Fight Any Claim Limited (WFAC) and their decision to chase him 
for a settlement fee that hes already paid.
What happened
On 3 July 2015, Mr B signed a Letter of Engagement (LOE) instructing WFAC to pursue 
claims for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) on his behalf. WFAC submitted Data 
Subject Access Requests to several lenders, and lender S responded explaining Mr B did 
have PPI on his account. 
Mr B signed a Letter of Authority (LOA) in December 2015 authorising WFAC to submit this 
claim, which they did so shortly after. And in January 2016, lender S issued their final 
decision letter upholding Mr Bs claim and offering him a PPI refund of £1,893.00.
The next day, WFAC called Mr B to make him aware of the offer. And on 7 January, they 
issued their invoice for £795.06. On 20 January, WFAC received a cheque from Mr B for the 
value of £568.50, an underpayment of the total fee. So, in June, WFAC issued Mr B with a 
second invoice for the remaining fee of £226.55. Mr B refused to pay this.
So, in September 2021, WFAC referred the outstanding to a third-party debt collector, who 
Ill refer to as D. Mr B was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint. 
Mr B didnt think WFAC made him aware a further fee needed to be paid. So, he didnt think 
it was fair for them to instruct D to chase him for payment and he wanted this outstanding 
invoice to be waived.
WFAC responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd made Mr B reasonably aware he 
had a further fee to pay, after his first cheque had been received. And they thought Mr B was 
reasonably aware the cheque he sent didnt cover the full fee back in January 2016. So, they 
didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr B remained unhappy with this response, so 
he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained theyd seen 
evidence to show WFAC had sent invoice letters to Mr B. And they were satisfied Mr B had 
received these, as he sent a cheque for the lower amount after this. So, he thought Mr B 
was aware a further fee was due and so, didnt think WFAC needed to do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree and provided a letter which he felt showed him attempting to cancel the 
agreement before WFAC sent him their initial invoice. And within this letter, Mr B told WFAC 
he wouldnt have agreed to use their service if their fee had been made clear to him. He 
thought this supported his view that the complaint should be upheld, and the fee waived.
Our investigator didnt agree and they explained they were satisfied WFAC made the fee 
reasonably clear in the terms and conditions Mr B entered into when he signed the LOE/ 
And further to this, they thought the contents of this letter satisfied them that Mr B was aware 
the cheque he sent was for less than the full fee WFAC invoiced him for. So, they 
maintained their view that WFAC had acted fairly. Mr B remained unhappy with this 
response, so his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr B. I appreciate its been a 
significant length of time since Mr B paid what he says he thought was WFACs fee. So, 
when he received contact from D chasing him for a further payment, I can understand why 
he'd be both confused and worried, as he was unlikely to have expected this. And I can 
appreciate why hed dispute the fee for these reasons. But for me to say WFAC have acted 
unfairly, and so should waive the outstanding fee, Id need to see one of two things. Either, 
that they failed to act in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement when invoicing 
Mr B for their fee. Or, if I think they did act within these, that it was unfair of them to do so. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Im aware Mr B doesnt dispute WFAC submitted the claim to lender S on his behalf. So, Im 
satisfied the claim resulted from the work WFAC did and because of this, I think theyre 
entitled to charge a settlement fee.
But this settlement fee should be charged in line with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement Mr B entered into. I can see Mr B signed the LOE in July 2015. And he himself 
has accepted to our investigator that he signed this document. By signing this document, Mr 
B was agreeing to the terms and conditions of it. And I wouldnt expect him to sign this 
unless he understand the information contained within it.
And I think these terms and conditions make it reasonably clear that WFACs fee would be 
35% + VAT of any refund Mr B received. Mr B received £1,893.00 from lender S, and 
35%+Vat of this figure is £795.06. So, I dont think WFAC acted unfairly when invoicing Mr B 
for this amount.
And from the evidence Ive seen, Mr B only paid WFAC £568.50, meaning there was an 
outstanding balance of £226.56. Mr B says he wasnt aware this didnt cover WFACs fee. 
But Ive seen WFAC sent Mr B an invoice detailing the full fee that was due. And Ive seen 
after this was received, Mr B called WFAC to request a copy of the LOE before making part 
payment a short time later. So, Im satisfied Mr B was aware a fee was due. And I think its 
reasonable to assume Mr B became aware of this due to the invoice WFAC sent, which 
explained their full fee. Because of this, I think WFAC made Mr B reasonably aware of their 
full fee and that it was Mr Bs choice to only make a part payment.
Ive also seen in the letters Mr B has sent to us, that he says were sent to WFAC, that he 
disputed the fee WFAC were charging and thought it was unfair compared to fees family 
members were being charged. So, I think this supports my decision that Mr B was aware of 
the full fee WFAC were invoicing him for. And that Mr B himself chose to make an 
underpayment. So, I dont think Im able to say that WFAC should waive the remaining 
balance of their fee as I think its one theyre entitled to charge for, and one Mr B ought to 
have been aware was due. And because of this, I dont think WFAC need to do anything 
more.I understand this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for. And I recognise Mr B did receive a 
letter from WFAC recognising a payment had been made and why he may have taken this 
as WFAC accepting his underpayment. But I think its clear WFAC didnt accept the 
underpayment as full and final payment of their fee. Nor do I think they were unreasonable 
not to do so. But I do recognise there was a significant delay between Mr B making part 
payment and WFAC passing the debt to D. And as this has been some time since Mr B 
received his PPI refund, I dont think its unreasonable for me to assume Mr B has spent 
these funds. So, Id expect WFAC to act positively and sympathetically towards this and look 
to agree a reasonable and affordable payment plan with Mr B if this is required.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about We Fight Any Claim 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman