DRN-3411611
The complaint
L, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has sent out a debit card for its 
account to a person who is no longer a director.
What happened
L says that one of the directors retired in 2017 and was removed from the account and 
mandate. In 2019 he was sent a replacement card. L told HSBC and it said that this was a 
mistake and had addressed it. But in 2022 he was sent a further card. Again, HSBC had told 
it this was corrected. L said that there had been a data breach. And that HSBC had also 
made a mistake in the first final response letter stating that the company name had changed. 
HSBC said that a renewal card would be sent until a cancellation request was made. In error 
the card wasnt cancelled in 2019 and a further one sent in 2022. HSBC apologised and said 
that no further cards would be issued. It offered to pay £200 in compensation. It issued a 
corrected final response letter.
Our investigator didnt recommend that HSBC do anything more. He said that he could only 
consider the impact here on L, a separate legal entity and not any anxiety caused to the 
individuals involved. He considered that the amount offered was reasonable to reflect the 
inconvenience and couldnt see that there had been any reputational impact or financial loss 
for L. He said that it could pursue any data breach with the Information Commissioners 
Office.
L didnt agree and the director representing it said that this wasnt a fair outcome. L wanted a 
second opinion and pointed out that no money had yet been paid or accepted. It would be 
following up the data breach.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the previous director who left the company was a family member who 
retired. I can understand the potential impact of the further cards being sent out. But 
fortunately, it doesnt seem there was any financial impact or real risk to L here. Having said 
that I find it unclear whether as part of its process HSBC oughtnt to have asked L in 2017 
whether the retiring director would still need a card.  And this issue was clearly not dealt with 
in 2019 and reoccurred in 2022. 
HSBC has assured L that the process is now complete. And I can understand in light of the 
history and as an initial final response had incorrect information that L wouldnt have been 
confident of this. 
I agree what with our investigator has said about the consequences of L being a separate 
legal entity. The director explains the time spent on this and that there was a data breach, 
human error and severe inconvenience. I note other points are raised by L about issues with 
an address change and I make clear that these would need to be referred to HSBC first and 
arent part of its response to this complaint.
We dont make punitive awards but look to reflect the impact of what has happened. And 
here thats the inconvenience to L. And we tend to look at the overall impact not hours spent 
including in bringing a complaint. Having done so I know the director of L will be 
disappointed when I say that HSBCs offer to resolve things is a reasonable one and the 
amount isnt less than I might otherwise have awarded. If L doesnt accept my findings it 
remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
HBSC has made an offer to pay L £200 to resolve this complaint. I consider this fair in all the 
circumstances and so my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc pay L £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman