DRN-4282980
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A complain that Mercantile Claims Management Solutions Limited trading as 
Claim Experts 4 U (CE4U) has unfairly asked them to pay a second fee for a mis-sold 
timeshare claim.
For ease of reading I will only refer to Mr A n my decision.
What happened
In August 2018 Mr A acquired a timeshare property for £26,990 on the understanding the 
property would provide him with cheaper holidays. He entered into a loan agreement with a 
lender Ill refer to as B.
In December 2020 Mr A instructed CE4U to act on his behalf to pursue a complaint about 
the mis-selling of the timeshare. Mr A used the services of a third party to terminate the 
timeshare agreement.
In September 2022, B told Mr A that they would refund any monies paid and cancel the 
loan agreement. B refunded Mr A the monies hed paid (15,475.04) plus interest, the gross 
amount being £18,788.94. With tax deducted Mr A received £18,126.16.
In October 2022 CE4U sent Mr A their invoice for the successful claim, this being for a fee of 
£6,764.02 based on the gross amount payable for Mr As successful claim, which Mr A paid. 
But in November 2022 CE4U sent Mr A a second invoice for the recovery of £22,145.65 they 
said was the written off balance of the loan.  CE4U asked Mr A to pay a further fee of 
£7,972.43. Mr A complained to CE4U.
CE4U said the agreement Mr A had with them covered all recovered monies so how much 
Mr A received was immaterial. They said without the work theyd done Mr A would have 
had to pay the entirety of the loan. So, as he no longer had to pay this CE4U was justified in 
charging their fee for the monies theyd recovered. Mr A wasnt happy with CE4Us response 
and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Mr As understanding of the terms hed agreed was that CE4U would 
charge a fee for recovery of monies hed paid to B towards his loan agreement. And hed 
paid this fee. She said it wasnt fair or reasonable for CE4U to charge their second fee as  
Mr A wouldnt have paid anything further as the timeshare agreement had been terminated 
and hed no benefit from it. She also said CE4U should pay Mr A £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
CE4U didnt agree they said Mr A had benefitted not only from the refund of monies hed 
paid. But also hed the financial benefit of the loan agreement being written off. They added 
that thered been previous decisions made by our service that had considered this issue 
which hadnt been upheld. They asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, CE4U has commented about previous decisions made by this service. As an 
impartial service we weigh up the evidence provided, we dont place more weight on one 
side or the other, and reach an outcome decided upon each complaints own merits. So, this 
means what was decided in the other complaints doesnt limit or direct the decision I make in      
Mr As case.
In reaching my decision Ill consider what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome based on 
the merits of Mr As case. And while Ive the relevant rules and terms and conditions in mind, 
my decision can depart from these where I think this provides for a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
Mr A isnt disputing the fee CE4U asked him to pay for the recovery of the money hed paid 
to B under the agreement. What is in dispute is whether its fair and reasonable for CE4U to 
ask Mr A to pay a fee for monies he would have paid if the loan agreement hadnt been 
cancelled.
The timeshare agreement Mr A had was for a timeshare membership for the sole purpose of 
taking holidays. And after Mr A terminated his timeshare agreement, hed no use of the 
asset that being the timeshare property. I can see that the timeshare was acquired for 
£26,990, of which Mr A had paid £15,475.04 when the loan was cancelled. I can see that 
CE4U has asked him to pay their fee based on a total recovery amount of £37,620.69. 
In December 2020, Mr A instructed CE4U to act on his behalf to pursue a mis-sold loan 
claim against B. In doing so Mr A agreed to CE4Us terms of business. Under a heading 
What is covered by this agreement, the terms said:
Your claim for monies paid to the seller/provider of the product/service using, in part or in 
entirety, credit, together with any further action, should the claim be rejected.
I can see that CE4U sent in December 2020 a letter of complaint to B that said Mr A was 
looking to recover the monies they have paid to the Seller from you.
In acquiring the loan, I think the money paid to the seller by B would have been no more 
than £26,990. Any amount payable over this would have been made up of the interest and 
fees that formed part of the loan agreement Mr A had with B.
CE4Us terms and conditions went on to say:
If we are successful with your claim, you pay our success fee. The success fee is set at 
30% of the monies you recover from your bank and/or credit provider plus VAT. By way of 
an example, if you recover £1,000.00 then our fee would be £300.00 plus VAT of £60.00. If 
you recover £5,000 then our fee would be £1,500.00 plus VAT of £300.00. You recover 
£10,000 then our fee would be £3,000.00 plus VAT of £600.00."
The loan agreement hed with B was for Mr A to purchase a timeshare. And the outcome of 
Mr As complaint was that the loan agreement was cancelled, and B refunded Mr A all the 
monies hed paid plus 8% simple interest. I can see CE4U invoiced Mr A for their fee of 
£6,764.02 in October 2022, based on the gross amount of £18,788.94, and that Mr A paid 
the fee.The Claims Management Conduct of Business (CMCOB) sourcebook relevant to when Mr A 
instructed CE4U says:
A firm must ensure that each of its communications and financial promotions is fair, clear 
and not misleading (the fair, clear and not misleading rule).
And that this applies to communications of or about fees, charges, invoices and payments.
It goes on to say:
CMCOB 4.2.5 says:
(1)The firm must explain the basis on which it would calculate its fee, and provide an 
illustration or estimate of that fee.
Ive considered CE4Us terms and conditions to see if I consider they were clear and not mis-
leading. And I dont think they are. While I can see CE4U has provided examples of what fee    
Mr A would pay dependent on the amount recovered. As outlined above the terms mention 
recovery of monies paid by B to the seller, (which I think would have been £26,990) but also 
monies you recover from your bank.  So, I dont think CE4U has been clear as to the basis on 
which they would calculate their fees, as they mention both monies paid by B to the seller and  
monies you recover from your bank. As I dont think theyve been clear as to what monies they 
were looking to recover. I think the key issue here is Mr As understanding of the term monies 
you recover .
I havent seen anything in CE4Us terms of business that explained to Mr A before he signed the 
agreement what CE4U considered to be recovered money. I havent seen any breakdown or 
example to show that CE4U would calculate their fee based in two parts. And neither do I think 
they made clear how the fee would be calculated. From what I can see CE4U has calculated the 
monies recovered - £37,620.69, based on the monies paid by Mr A to B and any balance left 
under the terms of the loan with B but this would have included interest and fees, and not just 
the amount borrowed. Yet their terms say they would look to get back the monies paid by B to 
the seller, with the fee based on monies you recover from your bank.  So, Im persuaded by 
Mr As testimony that his understanding of this term was that the amount recovered by B 
from the monies theyd paid to the seller would be the monies hed actually paid and had 
returned from them. And it would be this amount that CE4U would ask him to pay a fee for.
In invoicing Mr A for their fee of £6,764.02, CE4U said this was for Fees in respect of Successful 
Claim. So, when Mr A got this invoice in October 2022 I think he would have been of the 
understanding that this would be the only fee CE4U would ask him to pay. As he would have 
seen this as the fee for monies you recover from your bank. And when he paid CE4U their fee  
hed have considered the agreement hed with them as settled.
Im satisfied that Mr As understanding when he instructed CE4U was that he would have to pay 
a fee for monies they got back for him.  And that the recovered money would be the money 
hed paid to B. This being £18,126.16 (gross amount £18,788.94). 
So, I dont think its fair for CE4U to invoice Mr A in November 2022 for a fee of £7,972.43 for a  
write off loan for the amount of £22,145.65. As I dont think CE4Us terms and conditions had 
been clear. And I think Mr A has paid the fee that hed agreed to.
Putting things right
As I dont think its fair for CE4U to charge a fee in respect of the £22,145.65 they said was 
recovered as B had written off this amount. I think they should cancel their invoice dated 08 
November 2022, for £7,972.43.I can understand the distress and inconvenience this has caused to Mr A. After hed received 
some monies in redress for his successful claim, hed paid CE4U their asked for fee. Only then to 
be asked to pay an even greater fee, when he hadnt received any other redress to pay it from, 
this must have been upsetting and worrying for him. So, I agree with our investigator CE4U 
should pay Mr A £250 to compensate him for this.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint And ask Mercantile Claims Management 
Solutions Limited trading as Claim Experts 4 U to: 
Cancel their invoice dated 08 November 2022, for £7,972.43 and
Pay Mr A £250 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman