DRN-3221577
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc suspended his credit account without providing 
reasonable notice.
What happened
In March 2019, HSBC sent Mr R a letter informing that his credit account was classified as 
being in state of persistent debt and which encouraged Mr R to make larger monthly 
payment towards his account if possible. This letter also explained that if Mr R wasnt able to 
increase his monthly repayments and his account continued to remain in a state of persistent 
debt, then HSBC may suspend his account in the future.
Following this letter, Mr R didnt make larger payments towards his credit account, and 
HSBC sent similar letters to Mr R in December 2019 and September 2020, with the last 
letter advising Mr R that if he didnt contact HSBC and make arrangements to take his 
account out of a state of persistent debt within 60 days that his account may be suspended. 
Mr R didnt contact HSBC within 60 days and HSBC suspended his credit account 
accordingly. Mr R wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr Rs complaint, but they felt that theyd given Mr R fair notice that his 
account was in a state of persistent debt and might be suspended if it continued to remain in 
such a state, and as such they didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Mr R wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, especially as hed only received one of the 
three letters that HSBC sent him about his account being in persistent debt. So, he referred 
his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they noted that the letters that HSBC 
had sent Mr R complied with Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) requirements for credit 
providers in regard to accounts classified as being in persistent debt. 
Our investigator also felt that these letters had provided Mr R with fair notice of the status of 
his account and the fact that his account may be suspended if it remained in a state of 
persistent debt, and so they also didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority considers that a credit account is in a state of persistent 
debt if the level of interest which accrues on that account is such that the monthly payments 
made towards that account result in the customer paying more in interest and charges than 
they do towards paying off the capital balance outstanding on the account.
 
This can often be the case where a customer is paying close to the minimum payment
required on the account, which can result in the customer repaying monthly interest but
making little progress towards reducing the capital balance - meaning that the monthly
interest payments just keep becoming due.
 
Because of concerns about the long-term viability of such situations for credit account
holders, the FCA issued new rules surrounding how a credit provider must manage accounts
that are considered as being in persistent debt. These rules came into force in March 2018
and include that a credit provider must send letters to persistent debt customers advising
that they're in persistent debt and explaining the steps they can take to bring their account of 
persistent debt moving forwards.
 
These FCA prescribed letters should also advise customers of the potential consequences 
of the account remaining in a state of persistent debt, which can include the suspension of 
the account and the initiation of a payment plan designed to clear the full outstanding of the 
balance over a period of no more than four years.
 
HSBC contend that they followed the FCA rules surrounding persistent debt in this
instance. They sent the requisite letters to Mr R, and when Mr R didn't make the higher
payments necessary to take his account out of persistent debt, HSBC suspended Mr Rs
account and advised him of the payments he'd need to make to clear the full outstanding
balance within four years.
Having reviewed the letters that HSBC sent to Mr R, Im satisfied that HSBC were acting in 
accordance with the FCA persistent debt requirements, and as such Im similarly satisfied 
that HSBC didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by suspending Mr Rs credit account when    
Mr R didnt contact them or take steps to take his account out of a state of persistent debt by 
the time required of him in the letters.
Im aware that Mr R doesnt feel that HSBC provided him fair notice of the possibility that his 
account may be suspended and contends that he only received one of the three persistent 
debt letters that HSBC sent. However, its the responsibility of an account holder to monitor 
their account and its notable that HSBC uploaded all three of these letters to Mr Rs HSBC 
online account for his review. 
Furthermore, given that Mr R has confirmed that he received at least one of the persistent 
debt letters posted to his address by HSBC, I feel that it was incumbent on Mr R to have 
acted on the information presented in that letter if he wanted to avoid the potential 
consequences as laid out in the persistent dent letters, all three of which referenced the 
possibility that his account may be suspended if it remained in a state of persistent debt.
All of which means I find it difficult to conclude that HSBC have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing HSBC to take any further action at this time. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr R was wanting, but I trust that hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman