DRN-1596861
 
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy that, instead of repairing her car, Kindertons Ltd sent it to a salvage 
company where it suffered more damage.  
What happened
Mrs N was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident in March 2019. Kindertons were 
instructed to deal with the repairs but they sent the car to a salvage agent instead. The car 
was returned to Mrs N unrepaired, and in a very dirty condition. Kindertons offered Mrs N 
£200 to compensate her for this error, which she didnt accept.
Mrs N has complained that her car suffered further damage to both the front and rear while 
at the salvage agents. Shed like Kindertons to cover the repair costs for this damage.
Our investigator found that Mrs Ns car had suffered additional damage while in the care of 
the salvage agents. Because of this she said Kindertons should arrange for Mrs Ns car to 
be repaired or to pay her cash in lieu of the value of the repairs.
Mrs N accepted the investigators view and confirmed that the third-party insurer has now 
paid for the repairs to the front of her car as part of the accident claim. So shed like 
Kindertons to pay for the damage to the rear of her car only.
Kindertons didnt agree with the investigator. They say theres no evidence the damage to 
the rear bumper happened while Mrs Ns car was in the care of their salvage agents, and 
there isnt even a reasonable balance of probability that the damage happened then. So 
they dont believe they should be responsible for the cost of the repairs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute. Kindertons didnt arrange for repairs to Mrs Ns 
car and sent it to a salvage yard instead. Ive compared photographs taken of Mrs Ns car on 
the day of the accident to photographs taken when the car was returned to her. These show 
damage to the bonnet and the front grill that wasnt there at the time of the accident. The 
photographs also show damage to the rear bumper when the car was returned, but there are 
no before photographs to compare this to. And the photographs show the car was returned 
covered in mud and dirt, with writing on the windows and paint on the tyres.
Based upon the photographs alone, I agree that the damage to the bonnet and front grill 
wouldve happened while the car was at the salvage yard. So Kindertons are responsible for 
these repairs. But, because the damage to the rear bumper isnt covered by any before 
photographs, Ill need to consider other evidence to determine whether this damage was 
likely to have happened at the salvage yard.Ive seen the engineers report dated 30 May 2019, which considered the condition of Mrs 
Ns car and whether any damage was caused by the salvage agent. This report only refers 
to light scratches on the side of the car, and poor paintwork on the bumper. But this isnt 
the damage being complained about. Theres no reference on this report to the damage to 
the rear bumper which was present at the time of the inspection (the damage to the bonnet 
and front grill had already been repaired). So this report is of no help in determining when 
the damage to the rear bumper occurred.
Ive also seen the salvage agents collection and delivery sheets. The collection sheet has 
hash marks to the front offside of Mrs Ns car, indicating the area of accident damage. 
Theres no other damage indicated by the salvage agent when they collected Mrs Ns car. 
The delivery sheet shows the hash marks indicating the accident damage. But it also shows 
hash marks to the front bumper, which corresponds to the area of damage to the front grill. 
And theres a line through the rear bumper, which indicates a scratch, in roughly the same 
area as the damage to the rear bumper.
But the delivery sheet doesnt show the damage to the bonnet, which was present when the 
car was returned to Mrs N. This shows me the salvage agents didnt accurately complete the 
delivery sheet to show all of the damage to the car. So its possible that the line indicating a 
scratch on the rear bumper shouldve been a hash mark to indicate damage.
Because the photographs show the car covered in mud and dirt on its return, with writing on 
the windows and paint on the types, and the car suffered damage while at the salvage yard; 
its clear the salvage agent didnt take good care of Mrs Ns car. This isnt wholly unexpected 
when the salvage agents were expecting the car to be salvaged and not returned to Mrs N. 
But this, along with the delivery sheet evidence, shows me its more likely than not that the 
damage to the rear bumper also happened while Mrs Ns car was in the care of the salvage 
agents. So I agree that Kindertons should be responsible for the repair cost.
Mrs N has provided an estimate showing the cost of repairs to the rear bumper will be £525 
including VAT. This estimate also shows the garage will provide a hire car while Mrs Ns car 
is being repaired at a cost of £19.99 plus VAT (£23.99 per day). Mrs N says shes been told 
the repairs will take three days. 
If Kindertons had repaired the car originally, they wouldve provided Mrs N with a hire car. So 
its only fair that Mrs N has a hire car while these repairs are taking place. This means the 
estimated repair and hire car costs are £596.67. But, as this is only an estimated cost not a 
actual cost, I think its reasonable that Kindertons are responsible for covering the actual 
cost of this repair. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mrs Ns complaint. Kindertons Ltd must cover the 
costs of the repairs to the rear bumper of Mrs Ns, including any associated hire car costs. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman