DRN-3850846
The complaint
Mr W complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited told him that a windscreen 
claim wouldnt affect his renewal premium for his motor insurance policy. He wants it to 
remove the claim from his record. 
What happened
Mr W changed the named drivers occupation and car on his policy and then he made a 
windscreen claim. Mr W said Advantage told him this claim wouldnt affect his premium. But 
at renewal, the quoted premium had doubled. Advantage said the changes to the policy 
could affect the rating. But it agreed to match the previous years premium and it paid Mr W 
£50 compensation for giving him incorrect information. But Mr W wanted the claim removed. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
Advantage had correctly recorded the claim on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE) database as non-fault No Claims Bonus (NCB) allowed. But she thought Advantage 
should have warned Mr W that the claim may affect his premium. She thought its apology 
and £50 compensation for this was fair and reasonable. And she thought Mr W hadnt 
suffered any loss as Advantage had matched his previous years premium. 
Mr W replied that the claim on his record could affect him in future years. He said if he had 
been given the correct advice then he wouldnt have made a claim. Mr W asked for an 
Ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Advantage accepts that Mr W was incorrectly told that a windscreen claim 
wouldnt affect his premium at renewal. I can understand that this must have been very 
frustrating for Mr W. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Advantage accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Ive first considered the effect of the error on Mr Ws position. Mr W provided us with a 
timeline of the matters relevant to his complaint. He said his previous years premium from 
Advantage was increased to £344.63 when he changed his car and the named drivers 
occupation.
I can see that the changes were made two months before the end of the policy year and they 
led to a policy premium increase of £37.82 for these two months. Extrapolating over a year, 
the annual premium increase would have been £226.92.
Mr W then made the windscreen claim. The renewal quote was £598.66. Mr W said the 
claim had increased the quote by £250. But I dont agree. Advantage has agreed that it rated 
on windscreen repairs. But this wasnt the only change made on the policy. 
I can see that in the renewal quote Advantage explained:
During the last year a claim was made on your policy and this may have affected your 
renewal price. You also made a change to your policy so the prices below are based on your 
current policy details to make them easier to compare.
I think the changes to the car on cover and the named drivers details are significant and 
would also have affected the premium, as noted above. Advantage said the changes were 
based on the new details, which I take to mean the changes made to the policy and the 
claim. It said the previous years cover with these details would have been £596.41. And the 
renewal quote was £598.66. 
Advantage provided evidence from its underwriters that windscreen claims are rateable, 
though its not able to share this sensitive business information with Mr W. So I think some 
small part of this increase would have been due to the claim. 
Fortunately, Mr W was able to negotiate the quote down to that provided the previous year, 
£344.63. So I think Mr W hasnt been caused any loss by being given incorrect information.  
Mr W said he had to pay his policy excess. But I think he benefited from the windscreen 
repair. And so I cant reasonably say that Advantage should refund this amount. 
The claim remains on Mr Ws record. And I think Advantage has correctly recorded this as a 
claim was made and it has a responsibility to record accurate information about drivers 
histories. So I dont require it to remove this from CUE. I cant say how the claim will affect 
Mr Ws premiums in future years as I can only consider actual losses. 
So I think Advantage has reasonably restored Mr Ws position. In terms of the impact of its 
error, Advantage apologised and paid Mr W £50 compensation. I think thats fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance for the level of impact the error 
had. I dont require Advantage to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman