DRN-4311323
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC irresponsibly approved his loan application.
What happened
Mr S says he took out a Barclays loan in May 2018 for £50,000. He says appropriate checks 
were not carried out and the loan was unaffordable. Mr S says his income was £545 a month 
yet the loan repayments were over £900 a month. He would like the loan written off and his 
credit file amended as the loan has now defaulted.
Barclays says Mr S was pre-approved for the loan which he said was for home 
improvements. It says it checked Mr Ss credit file which didnt show any adverse information 
and has looked again at Mr Ss account statements which it says shows income from a 
number of sources. Barclays says it has calculated Mr Ss income at over £4,000 a month 
with outgoings at just over £1,500 which it says shows the loan was affordable.
Mr S brought his complaint to us, and our investigator upheld it. She recommended any 
interest be refunded to Mr S or deducted from the balance owed. She also thought Barclays 
hadnt carried out appropriate checks as there were payments into the account that were not 
income and cancelled out by payments out. The investigator thought it clear Mr Ss 
expenditure exceeding his income.
Barclays doesnt accept that view and says Mr S appeared to be a director of a business and 
says he made required payments for about a year after the loan was taken out.
Mr S accepts the investigators view.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that I didnt uphold this complaint, 
but I hoped both sides will provide further information.
I explained that lenders and credit providers must carry out appropriate checks on any 
lending or credit application. Those checks will of course vary. This was a loan for £50,000 
which I accepted was a relatively significant amount and so thought that Barclays ought to 
have carried out further checks on this application. But I didnt think it likely those further 
checks would have made a difference to the lending decision.
I could see that Barclays did carry out checks on Mr Ss credit file in 2018 and concluded 
that there was no adverse information recorded on it. I also looked at Mr Ss credit file and I 
agreed that there was no adverse information recorded such as arrears, defaults or County 
Court Judgements. So, I didnt think Barclays made a mistake or acted unfairly by pre-
approving a loan in principle for Mr S.
I said the key issue here is Mr Ss income and if it was enough to maintain the repayments. 
This was a loan which was largely pre-approved and so it was not clear what checks 
Barclays carried out before approving the loan. I thought it would have been appropriate as 
the investigator concluded to carry out further checks to ensure affordability. I hoped 
Barclays would provide the application data if available.
I said I had to consider what those further checks would have revealed and thought it likely 
that Barclays would have looked closely at Mr Ss account statements in the six months 
before the loan application. I appreciated that the investigator concluded that Mr Ss income 
was less than his outgoings, but I didnt think the account statements showed that.
I looked carefully at Mr Ss account statements in the six months before the loan application. 
I appreciated that he received a credit for housing benefit but said there does appear to be 
multiple income sources such as SBS and what is described as rent money. The 
overall picture of the account appears to show that income exceeded expenditure and that 
the account was well run with normally a positive account balance at the month end. For 
example, the account received over £12,000 in March 2018 and even with expenditure still 
retained a balance of over £2,000.
I didnt think it clear what the payments in or out of the account were for. It seems they were 
to Mr Ss business or businesses, but I couldnt fairly have expected Barclays to have known 
that. And I couldnt see what further checks it could have carried out here as I was satisfied 
that on the face of it his accounts showed an income far in excess of what Mr S says his 
income was. I thought it likely that Mr S may have been an employee of a business he 
effectively controlled and a director of a different business. I said it was not clear if the credit 
into Mr Ss bank account from S..BS was from a director of the business he was employed 
by. I thought Mr S could confirm that and provide details of his relationship with that person 
and what the payments were for. I said that as I didnt think Barclays would have made a 
mistake by concluding such regular payments were part of Mr Ss income.
I was satisfied that on the face of it the only real further checks I would have expected 
Barclays to have carried out would have been to check Mr Ss income, which it could have 
done by looking at his account statements. I was also satisfied that those checks would have 
shown an income that exceeded Mr Ss expenditure. I appreciated that the nature of some of 
the payments in and out of the account were not clear and it may have been Mr S was using 
his personal account for some business use. But I said I wouldnt have expected Barclays to 
have carried out such an in-depth analysis of the account as the key point was that it was 
well run with a positive balance.
I could see that Mr S maintained required loan repayments for some time after the loan was 
taken out which I thought suggested on balance that it was affordable at the time, but Mr Ss 
circumstances later changed.
Overall, I accepted that Barclays ought to have carried out further checks on this loan 
application due to its size. But I had not seen any evidence about what those checks would 
have shown that would have led it to conclude the loan was unaffordable. I made clear the 
only check it could have reasonably carried out would have been to have confirmed over the 
six-month period what income Mr S was receiving. Mr S banked with Barclays and so it 
would have seen his account statements and even after deducting benefits, showed a 
healthy account balance each month that could have supported the loan repayments.
I didnt think it matters that Mr S may well have given Barclays an incorrect reason for the 
loan but accepted that Mr Ss account may well have mixed his business and personal 
affairs. I said Mr S could clarify what the exact position was and what the nature of the other 
businesses were, as it seems he was, according to the bank statements, loaning a company 
money which was in turn was paying him for his expenses. I also thought Mr S can confirm if 
the businesses in question had bank accounts and who had access to them or responsibility 
for them. And no doubt confirm if he received an income or benefit from themI said it follows that, as I thought provisionally the loan repayments were affordable, I 
couldnt fairly order that any interest paid by Mr S be deducted from the balance he owes. I 
would not in any event order that the loan be written off as Mr S clearly had the benefit of the 
money.
Barclays hasnt provided any further information.
Mr S doesnt accept my provisional view and says in summary he has provided evidence of 
his income by providing wage slips. He says his wifes income from the business was paid 
into his account and has two companies one of which paid him a salary. Mr S says he took 
directors loans and that his business partner destroyed his business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
I appreciate Mr S has provided wage slips but I have made clear that Im satisfied that Mr Ss 
financial position is far more complicated than that. Im also satisfied that any further checks 
Barclays would have carried out on Mr Ss bank statements would have shown a far greater 
income and that it would show an account well run with a positive balance each month. I 
think it clear Mr S had interests in different companies and has told us that due to a business 
dispute he was left with a debt of £260,000. I think that suggests on balance a business or 
businesses that were generating at some point significant turnover which Mr S may have 
benefited from. And that it appeared it was the actions of a business partner that led to 
financial difficulty rather than the loan decision.
Overall, for the reasons I have explained, I think Barclays ought to have carried out further 
checks on the application but that it unlikely those checks would have prevented the lending 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman