DRN-3283459
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has unfairly declined 
part of his subsidence claim.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and has been detailed by our 
Investigator previously, so Ive summarised events.
Some years ago, Mr M contacted Lloyds regarding suspected subsidence to his 
home. Lloyds assessed the damage and determined the cause wasnt subsidence.
Mr M sought to complete works to his property. Surveyors reviewed the property and 
said the proposed works couldnt be completed due to subsidence. 
Mr M shared this information with Lloyds and following a period of monitoring it 
agreed subsidence was present. Its investigations discovered damage to drains 
which it repaired. Mr M felt there were additional areas requiring subsidence repair, 
including his rear bedroom and bathroom. He asked it to wave the policy excess. 
Lloyds disagreed, attributing cracking to thermal movement or old plaster. It also 
described problems with a lintel and overloaded joists leading to them deflecting over 
time. However, Lloyds acknowledged it caused distress and inconvenience to Mr M 
through unnecessary delays, poor communication, and overall handling of the claim. 
And it offered Mr M £775 in compensation alongside his telephone call costs.
Mr M brought his complaint to this Service and one of our Investigators looked into 
things. She agreed Lloyds had caused avoidable delays and a lack of communication 
with Mr M for a significant period. She said the compensation offered was fair in light 
of the impact of the mistakes. She said it was fair for Halifax to still charge an excess, 
and that she wouldnt expect it to cover Mr Ms earnings for visits.
Mr M disagreed, saying Lloyds had said it could not rule out subsidence as the cause 
of damage in the affected rooms. And he provided a video of an engineer in his home 
discussing the damage, agreeing there had been movement across the home.
The Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. She acknowledged the in-
person discussion but said the reported findings afterwards gave the most 
persuasive insight on the cause of damage. And overall there was no expert 
evidence provided to show subsidence had caused damage to upstairs flooring, a 
section of landing and the bathroom and WC.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Scope of works
Following its initial decline and back and forth, Lloyds has accepted a subsidence claim for 
Mr Ms home. But it hasnt agreed to cover all areas of the home. The areas that remain in 
dispute include Mr Ms upstairs rear bedroom, bathroom, WC and section of the landing.
Lloyds has attributed the cause of damage to these rooms as joist deflection. It has provided 
expert opinion and a report to support these findings. And Lloyds has explained how these 
distortions resulted from excessive deflection in the over spanned and overloaded floor joists 
which support the first-floor brick partitions  which isnt covered by the policy.
Mr M has disagreed with this, but hes provided no expert opinion or expert evidence 
supporting that the damage to these particular areas was caused by subsidence. So, Ive 
placed more weight on the available expert opinion in this case, and Im persuaded Lloyds 
decision on the claim was a reasonable one.
Lloyds has also acknowledged damage to these areas caused by the joists, may have been 
exacerbated by subsidence movement. And it included a cash contribution to its schedule to 
recognise this. I think this was a reasonable step for it to take in the circumstances. 
Mr M has referenced the engineer who came to his home mentioning movement across the 
home. But movement alone isnt enough for the damage to be covered by the insurance. 
The insurer will need to consider the cause of the damage to determine if its covered by the 
policy. And in this case the engineers conclusion on the cause of the movement within the 
areas in question was related to the joists as Ive described above  which simply isnt 
covered by the policy. 
Claims handling 
Lloyds has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to provide appropriate 
information on the progress of his claim to its policyholders.
Lloyds has agreed it has made various mistakes across the life of this claim. This includes 
recognition of unnecessary delays in progressing the claim and arranging works, and a 
failure to provide updates to Mr M. 
Our Investigator has detailed these events at length so I wont repeat them here. But Im 
satisfied Lloyds hasnt met its obligations to handle the claim promptly nor kept Mr M 
updated as it shouldve done. I can also understand the unnecessary frustration Mr M was 
made to feel with Lloyds back and forth position on the claim.
In light of all of these mistakes, Im satisfied Lloyds needs to compensate Mr M for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused him. It has offered £775 already and apologised 
for its mistakes. And Im persuaded this sum is a fair and reasonable one in all of the 
circumstances. So, Im not going to direct it to do anything further.
For completeness, I would also add Im satisfied Lloyds acted reasonably by requesting an 
excess as this would always need to be paid in a claim of this nature. And while I understand 
Mr M was frustrated, he had to take time off to deal with the claim, Ive factored this into the 
compensation sum above.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman