DRN-1872144
Complaint
Ms S has complained about the overdraft on her Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) bank account. 
In essence, shes unhappy with the way that Lloyds has charged her for her overdraft usage 
over the last six years. She believes that these charges are excessive and contrary to the 
Lending Standard Boards Lending Code.  
Background 
Ms S complained to Lloyds in July 2019. She complained after she contacted Lloyds to 
explain that her financial circumstances had taken a turn for the worse after it hadnt 
recovered payments made from her account and on her Lloyds credit card. These payments 
and the circumstances behind them are the subject of a separate complaint about Lloyds 
and which is being investigated separately by this Service. As this is the case, I wont be 
commenting on those payments, in this decision, other than to acknowledge that they have 
caused Ms S account to become heavily overdrawn.  
Ms S complaint about her overdraft said that she was incurring bank charges at a high 
amount that went contrary to section 9 of the lending code and section 5.1.4 of the Banking 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (BCOB) which states that a firm should deal fairly with a 
banking customer whom it has reason to believe is in financial difficulty.
Lloyds didnt uphold Ms S complaint. As far as it was concerned the overdraft fees and 
charges were applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. And Ms S didnt 
notify it of any financial difficulty until July 2019, which was after the complaint about her 
disputed payments. Lloyds considers that it undertook appropriate forbearance measures by 
suspending all interest, fees and charges at this point and putting repayment measures in 
place in order to reduce what Ms S owes.
Ms S was dissatisfied at Lloyds response and referred her complaint to our service for an 
independent review.           
My provisional decision of 9 April 2020
On 9 April 2020, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr S 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings.
I started by saying that I hadnt considered whether the various charging structures Lloyds 
applied (whether for an arranged or unarranged overdraft) over the years were fair and 
reasonable. Ultimately, during the period that was in dispute, the amount a bank charged for 
the use of an overdraft was a commercial decision.
But I also made it clear that Lloyds will not have acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms S if 
it continued to allow her to use her overdraft  and continued charging her at the same rate 
to do so  should it have been the case that it ought fairly and reasonably to have realised 
she was experiencing financial difficulty.I then set out that all parties appeared to have accepted that Lloyds had fairly and 
reasonably frozen the interest applied to Ms S overdraft and attempted to arrange an 
affordable repayment plan  to repay the outstanding balance  in the period since July 
2019. 
Lloyds also accepted that its regulatory obligations, good industry practice (such as the 
Lending Standard Boards Lending Code and Standards of Lending Practice which replaced 
it in 2015) and its own account terms and conditions required it to have monitored Ms S use 
of her overdraft. But it didnt believe that it should backdate its offer of assistance to cover 
the past six years as it doesnt agree Ms S overdraft usage indicated she was experiencing 
financial difficulty during this time. 
I then set out that while Ms S had referred to financial difficulty, her letter of complaint 
referred to this occurring in the present. And there was certainly no reference to a particular 
period of time where Lloyds should have acted. Ms S had simply referred to charges over 
the past six years. So it was possible Ms S believes that she should be refunded the interest, 
fees and charges applied to her overdraft over the past six years because shes now in 
financial difficulty.
I confirmed that I had, in any event, used my inquisitorial remit to review Ms S account 
history during the period in question to see whether it would have been fair and reasonable 
for Lloyds to have offered Ms S assistance much sooner than it did. 
As this was the case, I think that there were two potential questions that I needed to consider 
in order to fairly and reasonably determine Ms S complaint. 
1. Were there any periods where Ms S overdraft usage warranted Lloyds contacting 
her?
 
And if the answer to this first question was yes, Id then need to consider: 
2. Would any contact Lloyds have had with Ms S more likely than not have shown that 
Ms S was having difficulty managing her overdraft and so Lloyds should have 
exercised forbearance rather than continued adding charges to her balance? 
 
I then said it was only if the answer to both of those questions was yes, would I determine 
that Lloyds didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Ms S and decide what interest, fees and 
charges, if any, should be refunded to Ms S.
I started by considering the first question. 
Were there any periods where Ms S overdraft usage warranted Lloyds proactively 
contacting her? 
I confirmed that Id reviewed Ms S use of her overdraft from July 2013 onwards. And for 
reasons that would become apparent further on, I grouped Ms S overdraft usage into three 
blocks or periods of time.
July 2013 to August 2015
Ms S account statements showed that she had an overdraft limit of £3,500 in July 2013. And 
while I could see that she used the overdraft most months, the account was reasonably well 
funded as a result of Ms S salary being credited into the account. So Ms S account usually 
saw a credit balance. Indeed Ms S overdraft usage reduced so much that her limit was reduced to £1,000 in 
around September 2013. And again this pattern of Ms S dipping into her overdraft but 
usually ending up in a healthy credit balance after getting paid continued right until August 
2015. Bearing in mind all of this I didnt think that there was any reason for Lloyds to query 
Ms S overdraft usage or for it to have been concerned that Ms Ss overdraft balance had 
become unsustainable for her.  
August 2015 to December 2015
Ms S overdraft limit was increased to £4,000 in August 2015. And it was clear that Ms S 
started to use her overdraft more heavily from this point onwards. Indeed Ms S salary was 
no longer enough to return her to credit each month. And I couldnt see that Ms S ever had a 
credit balance on her account during this period either. 
In November 2015, Ms S actually exceeded her £4,000 overdraft limit and had returned 
direct debits. Ms S once again exceeded her limit in December 2015. Bearing in mind that 
this was the second month in succession that Ms S has exceeded her overdraft limit and had 
direct debits returned, I think that Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably to have contacted Ms S 
and reviewed whether her overdraft remained sustainable for her.
January 2016 to September 2016
Ms S overdraft usage reverted to the pattern shed had prior to the August 2015 limit 
increase. There is some use of the overdraft but Ms S salary is more than enough to offset 
this and she spent a reasonable period of the month in a credit balance. And its clear that 
she was dipping in and out of her overdraft.   
However, in May 2016 there were a number of relatively large payments made from Ms S 
account and these increase her overdrawn balance. And Ms S once again exceeded her 
overdraft limit (and incurred returned direct debit fees) in June 2016. The overdraft was kept 
within its limit in July 2016 before again being exceeded in August 2016 and September 
2016. Once again Ms S incurred returned direct debit fees at these times.
By this stage, Ms S had exceeded her overdraft limit three times in a four month period. 
Additionally Ms S account statements also appeared to indicate that her overdraft was, in 
any event, due to be renewed in August 2016. Taking all of this into account, I thought that 
Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably to have contacted Ms S to have discussed her overdraft 
usage and also reviewed whether Ms S overdraft and the limit offered was sustainable for 
her within a reasonable period of time of September 2016. 
November 2016 to July 2019
In November 2016 Ms S placed a significant amount of funds in her account. This brought 
the account into credit. And while there is some sporadic usage, Ms S generally remains in 
credit for most of the month until May 2017. In May 2017, Ms S started using her overdraft 
heavily again.
In June 2017, Ms S credited her account with the proceeds of a £22,000 loan. And she used 
most of these funds to make large payments to four different credit cards. This caused Ms S 
account to go overdrawn again after this and by October 2017 Ms S exceeded her overdraft 
limit once again. However, Ms S made substantial credits to the account and these 
combined with Ms S salary were enough to have brought the account back into credit. Ms S 
account usage ensures that she usually had, or was close to having, a credit balance each 
month until around August 2018.At this point, Ms S started making some large payments to her credit card and her overdraft 
usage became more sustained. But Ms S credited the account with £6,000 and the account 
once again had a credit balance. In October 2018 Ms S credited the account with the 
proceeds of £13,000 loan. 
As far as I could see, there were two large transfers made to third parties. It was my 
understanding that those transactions formed part of Ms S other complaint so I offered no 
comment on them other than to state the factual position that those transactions resulted in 
Ms S having an overdrawn account balance once again. Ms S did credit the account with 
funds at that point. But from April 2019 the position deteriorated and the account never saw 
a credit balance from that point onwards. 
So I thought that Lloyds should have started thinking about contacting Ms S to discuss her 
overdraft usage. However, Ms S proactively contacted Lloyds in July 2019 to explain that 
she was experiencing financial difficulty and assistance was offered. 
As that was the case, I was satisfied that Lloyds, in any event, discussed Ms S overdraft 
usage and whether it had become unsustainable for her. And I was therefore satisfied that 
Lloyds treated Ms S fairly and reasonably, in relation to the application of overdraft charges, 
in the period between November 2016 and July 2019.
Having carefully considered Ms S overdraft usage, I was satisfied that Ms S usage of her 
facility ought fairly and reasonably to have prompted Lloyds to have contacted her within a 
reasonable period of time of December 2015 and September 2016. And any contact ought to 
have explored whether Ms S overdraft and its limit remained sustainable for her.
Would any contact Lloyds have had with Ms S more likely than not have shown that she was 
having difficulty managing her overdraft and so Lloyds should have exercised forbearance 
rather than continued adding charges to her balance? 
Id already explained why I thought that Ms S account overdraft usage in December 2015 
and September 2016 ought to have prompted Lloyds to have proactively contacted Ms S to 
discuss her options and how she might be able to repay her overdraft. And I thought that any 
contact ought fairly and reasonably to have taken place within a reasonable period from 
those respective dates. 
I couldnt see that Lloyds had proactively contacted Ms S in such a way. But even though I 
didnt think that Lloyds had proactively contacted Ms S within a reasonable period from when 
it ought fairly and reasonably to have done so this, on its own, didnt mean that Ms S 
complaint should be upheld. 
After all if contact wouldve simply resulted in Ms S, more likely than not, demonstrating that 
her overdraft and its limit was sustainable for her, then any contact wouldnt have made a 
difference. This is because Ms S wont have lost out as a result of Lloyds failure to act and 
thered be no reason for me to uphold the complaint. 
As Lloyds didnt contact Ms S in December 2015 or September 2016, I couldnt say for sure 
what any such contact would more likely than not have revealed to Lloyds. But I reviewed 
Ms S transaction history and her account usage in order to determine what I thought is more 
likely than not to have happened had she been contacted by Lloyds. 
I accepted this wasnt perfect as just because Ms S acted a certain way, it didnt mean she 
would still have acted in this way had Lloyds met its obligations to her. But I thought Ms S 
actions did provide a reasonable indication of what she was more likely than not to have done if asked about her ability to manage her overdraft at the time. And in the absence of 
anything else I thought it was perfectly reasonable to rely on it. 
Having carefully looked through everything provided and thought about everything both 
parties had said, I didnt think that Lloyds contacting Ms S within a reasonable period of 
December 2015 or September 2016 would have made a material difference to Ms S position 
at those respective times.
I thought this because Ms S actions indicated to me that she either had the funds, or was 
able to access the funds, to not only bring her back within her limit but also take her into a 
credit balance. For example, in January 2016, Ms S transferred in around £2,000 in funds 
from an account she had with another bank. I dont think that this was as a result of any 
contact that Ms S had with Lloyds. 
But nonetheless I had no reason to believe that Ms S would more likely than not have acted 
any differently had she been asked to demonstrate that her overdraft and its limit did remain 
sustainable for her around this time. And her overdraft usage then reverted to how it was 
before her limit was increased in August 2015. In other words there was nothing to suggest 
that Lloyds ought to have been concerned that Ms S overdraft and its limit had become 
unsustainable for her.
I was also mindful that Ms S took similar corrective action in relation to her account balance 
 by crediting significant sums to bring the account into credit in November 2016 - within a 
reasonable period from September 2016 too. As Ms S appears to have been able to make 
those credits without appearing to be prompted to do so by Lloyds, I cant reasonably 
conclude that she would have decided against doing so if shed been told she needed to 
demonstrate that her overdraft and its limit remained sustainable for her. 
So overall I didnt think that Lloyds wouldve realised that Ms S may have been experiencing 
financial difficulty or that she would more likely than not acted any differently if Lloyds had 
contacted her within a reasonable period from December 2015 and September 2016 as I 
thought it ought fairly and reasonably to have done. And in these circumstances, I didnt 
think that Lloyds had acted unfairly or unreasonably in applying the overdraft charges that it 
did or that it should refund them now. 
I accepted that Ms S financial position materially changed in 2019. And while sorry to hear 
that Ms S was struggling financially, I was satisfied that she notified Lloyds around the time 
that this happened. And that Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in response to this by 
freezing all interest and charges and setting up a plan for Ms S to reduce what she owed.
Having carefully considered the key questions set out on earlier on my provisional decision, 
this left me intending to issue a final decision which found that:
Ms S management of her overdraft ought fairly and reasonably to have prompted 
Lloyds to have contacted Ms S to find out whether her overdraft and its limit 
remained sustainable for her within a reasonable period of time of December 2015 
and September 2016;
 
Ms S actions lead me to reasonably conclude that any contact Lloyds may have had 
with Ms S, or any fair and reasonable review of Ms S overdraft, within a reasonable 
period of December 2015 and September 2016 would more likely than not have 
shown that Ms S overdraft and its limit was sustainable for her.
 
So overall I was intending to find that Lloyds did not act unfairly and unreasonably towards 
Ms S in relation to her overdraft interest fees and charges. And as this was the case, I wasnt intending to uphold Ms S complaint about the overdraft interest, fees and charges applied to 
her account or intending to require Lloyds to make any refund.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds didnt dispute my decision or provide anything further for me to consider.
Ms S provided a response which in summary, said that:
she agreed that Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably to have contacted her to discuss 
her overdraft usage;
 
my findings in relation to the likely results of any possible discussion were based on 
an opinion and assumptions of a hypothetical situation;
 
she didnt have any other income other than her monthly salary and provided a list of 
transactions to show this and her monthly salary was less than her overdraft limit;
 
she would have welcomed financial advice from Lloyds on how to avoid incurring 
further debt in order to keep up all her repayments including her overdraft and, in 
fact, she had in the past made applications for debt consolidation loans, which were 
refused;
 
Lloyds made comments which strengthen her view that her other complaint should 
be upheld.
 
Although Ive summarised and only set out the main points of Ms S response, I can confirm 
that Ive read and carefully considered all of the arguments she made, including the 
transaction list (and associated commentary) provided.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided from the outset, including 
the responses to my provisional decision, in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
As neither party challenged my provisional findings that Mr S should have been contacted 
within a reasonable period of time of December 2015 and September 2016, Ive not been 
persuaded to alter my conclusions on this matter.
I now turn to Ms S comments regarding what Lloyds should have discovered and whether it 
ought to have taken any proactive action in relation to her overdraft. For ease of reference, 
Ill address Ms S comments thematically.
The basis of the findings that I reached in my provisional decision     
Ms S has said that I offered an opinion based on a hypothetical situation, which was in turn 
based on assumptions. I accept that this is to some extent true. Clearly as the meeting or 
discussion I thought ought to have taken place didnt take place, I am to some degree 
considering a hypothetical scenario. And equally no-one, not even Ms S for that matter, can 
say for certain what any such meeting or discussion is likely to have led to. I say this while 
especially mindful of the fact that Ms S views on what she would have done are now 
undoubtedly likely to be influenced by the benefit of hindsight.Ms S has asked us to consider her complaint. So she has asked for an independent opinion 
on matters. And as I am required to decide her complaint, its up to me to consider all the 
available evidence and offer an opinion what would more likely than not have happened had 
the meetings or discussions taken place at the relevant times. That is what I did in my 
provisional decision. I dont agree that my opinion was based solely on assumptions about a 
hypothetical situation. I say this because my findings on what I thought would more likely 
than not have happened was, in large part, based on the actions that Ms S did take during 
the period in question. 
I did accept in my provisional decision and I still accept that this isnt perfect as just because 
Ms S did act a certain way, in circumstances where Lloyds did not proactively contact her, it 
doesnt mean she would still have acted in this way had Lloyds met its obligations to her. 
But in the absence of anything else I do consider it perfectly reasonable to rely on these 
actions as a reliable indicator of things  especially as the credits referred to were credited to 
Ms S account at the relevant times. And Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable to 
consider what would more likely than not have happened had Lloyds met its obligations to 
Ms S, even if this is a hypothetical scenario.  
Ms S comments regarding her income and what she would have done had she been 
provided with advice
Ms S has provided evidence to show that the only income she regularly received was as a 
result of her employment. Ive considered what Ms S has provided but I think its helpful for 
me to explain that I didnt make any findings regarding Ms S having additional income in my 
provisional decision. 
I merely referred to the fact that funds were credited to Ms S account, which they were. 
These were funds that Ms S was able to obtain and as she was able to do so, I cant 
reasonably conclude that she wouldnt have been able to obtain them in the event that 
Lloyds had contacted her.
I would also like to apologise to Ms S if she was left with the impression that my provisional 
decision indicated that Lloyds needed to contact her to advise her whether her overdraft was 
right for her. This certainly isnt what I meant as it goes much further than Lloyds obligations. 
What Lloyds had to do was contact Ms S to find out if she had the funds or could access the 
funds to bring her overdraft balance back under control. As advice of the sort Ms S now 
believes Lloyds should have provided her with was far in excess of its obligations to her and 
Ms S was also free to request such advice should she have wanted it, I dont think that 
Lloyds actions here were unfair.
Id also point out that as Ms S has said that she would have taken consolidation loans with 
Lloyds had these been offered this persuades me even more that Ms S wouldnt have acted 
differently, in terms of consolidating debts, had Lloyds contacted her. And as Ms S 
transferred the funds she was able to obtain from elsewhere into her Lloyds account, I dont 
think Lloyds should have disregarded them in any consideration of Ms S access to funds 
and whether she was experiencing financial difficulty. 
Its also important for me to explain that while returned direct debits can be an indication that 
an accountholder may be experiencing financial difficulty, this is only one possible 
explanation for the consumer not having sufficient funds in their account. So it doesnt 
automatically follow that a bank should automatically conclude that a consumer is in financial 
difficulty every time a direct debit is returned. In this particular case, Ms S brought her overdraft balance well under its limit within a 
reasonable period of time around the period I was concerned about. And the returned direct 
debits were sporadic rather than being regular and over a sustained period of time. 
Therefore, given the particular circumstances of Ms S case, I dont think that Lloyds ought 
reasonably to have suspected that Ms S was experiencing financial difficulty. And as Ms S 
didnt ask for assistance until July 2019, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards her by not proactively offering the assistance it did at this point at an earlier stage.  
Equally, if Ms S now considers the additional credit she was provided elsewhere, which did 
improve her current account balance, was unsustainable  in particular Im referring to the 
comments shes made in relation to cash withdrawals on her credit cards  then these are 
matters shell need to take up with those respective lenders. 
Finally, Ive also considered Ms S comments that her overdraft limit was more than her 
monthly salary. But it isnt uncommon or unreasonable for a borrower to be provided with a 
overdraft limit, or even credit limits on other forms of credit, which are in excess of a 
borrowers monthly salary. This is because the borrower isnt expected to repay the entire 
outstanding balance in one payment, rather the expectation is that the borrower should be 
able to repay the balance in full within a reasonable period of time. 
So while Ms S monthly salary may have been less than her overdraft limit, Ive already 
explained why her account conduct, for the most part suggested that her limit was 
sustainable. And while Ive found that Lloyds ought reasonably to have done more to have 
explored Ms S ability to clear the balance within a reasonable period of time around 
December 2015 and September 2016, Ive already explained why Ms S later actions, in 
event, indicate that she would more likely than not have shown that she could. 
As this is the case, Ms S further submissions in relation to this matter havent persuaded me 
to alter the findings I reached in my provisional decision.
Ms S comments regarding her other complaint
Ms S has made further comments about Lloyds actions and why this means that her other 
complaint with us should be upheld. But, in my provisional decision, I was very clear that I 
was only considering Lloyds actions in relation to Ms S overdraft and that her other 
complaint was being looked at separately. 
As this is the case, while I have seen Ms S comments, I will not be responding to them as it 
isnt appropriate for me to do so. These are matters for the case handler looking at Ms S 
other complaint to consider.  
Having carefully considered all of Ms S further comments, Ive not been persuaded to alter 
the findings I reached in my provisional decision of 9 April 2020. And I continue to find that 
Lloyds did not act unfairly and unreasonably towards Ms S in relation to her overdraft 
interest fees and charges. 
So bearing in mind all of this, it follows that Im not upholding Ms S complaint about the 
overdraft interest, fees and charges applied to her account or requiring Lloyds to make any 
refund in relation to this.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms S complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman