DRN-3136579
The complaint
Mr P says that TSB Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent him falling victim to scams in which 
he lost a significant amount of money. 
What happened
The detailed and lengthy background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill 
only provide an overview of some key events here. 
In 2016 Mr P opened accounts with two Binary Options trading firms. Ill refer to these as O 
and B. Between March 2019 and May 2019 Mr P paid around £14,000 to his account with 
O. And in a similar timeframe he paid around £48,000 to B. Mr P made these payments 
using his TSB debit card. 
Mr P complained to both O and B. In November 2016 B offered Mr P £4,575 to settle his 
complaint and In March 2017 O offered Mr P £4,000 for the same reason. Mr P declined 
both offers. Mr P has also told us that he later took his complaint about B to the Cyprus 
Financial Ombudsman following which he was awarded £16,000 which he also declined. 
In January 2018 Mr P entered into an agreement with a legal firm Ill refer to as L. He 
sought their help to try to recover his losses and he paid them just over £4,000 for this. Mr P 
says he didnt receive any redress as a result of his involvement with L. 
Mr P believes that O, B and L were all operating scams and in September 2019 he 
contacted TSB to complain that they hadnt done enough to protect him. TSB didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong and said they were unable to refund Mr P the payments.
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt think it should 
be upheld. In summary, she wasnt persuaded that Mr P had been a victim of fraud. And so 
there was no basis upon which she thought TSB ought to have intervened or to have done 
more. Mr P disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I find that Mr Ps debit card payments to O and B were authorised payments. Mr P knew 
that payments were leaving his TSB account and would have shared his card details to 
enable the payments to take place. Under the relevant regulations, this is what is required 
for a payment to be authorised.
TSB were required to promptly process payments authorised by Mr P from his account. But 
banks also have obligations to try to prevent fraud. So its important to establish whether the 
payments were made as a result of fraud  our investigator concluded they werent.
At the time of the payments, O and B were both regulated by Cyprus Securities and 
Exchange Commission (CySec). They also were able to passport into the UK and offer their 
services here which is recorded on the Financial Conduct Authoritys financial services 
register.
It would be unusual for a scam firm to comply with the various requirements associated with 
being regulated. Further to this Ive seen evidence that each firm offered Mr P 
compensation in response to his complaints. And Mr Ps own evidence is that a £16,000 
award was recommended by the Cyprus Financial Ombudsman. 
Ive also checked the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators. Its my understanding that O and B have no adverse information reported about 
them on this source. 
Ive not seen anything that meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof required for 
fraud. Rather, this appears to be a case of a bad investment and questionable sales 
methods/trading practices.
Having concluded that this was likely a case of a bad investment rather than a scam, there is 
nothing further for me to consider, as a bank has no obligation to protect its customers from 
bad bargains or give them investment advice. There are occasions when we do think banks 
should query payments because of suspicious activity that appears unusual or 
uncharacteristic for the account or customer. Mr P has specifically referenced these in his 
submissions. If such potential fraud alerts are triggered, it is fair and reasonable for a banker 
to pause and ask questions of the payer about the transaction  which might unravel a scam 
and stop it before any loss occurs. But those considerations, which we have previously set 
out in our published decisions are predicated on there being evidence of a fraud or scam, 
which is not the case here. A bank does not have to intervene with authorised payments, 
and cannot be held liable for alleged losses, when there is in fact no fraud or scam, or if the 
payer has regrets or second thoughts after the event.
And even if Im wrong on the above point in relation to the payments to the law firm, L 
(where there isnt the benefit of the IOSCO portal). The nature of those payments are such 
that I wouldnt have expected TSB to have intervened as they were for comparatively small 
amounts. This means they arent something that I think ought to have prompted intervention 
from TSB in any case. `
TSB has said they were unable to pursue a chargeback as the relevant time limits had 
expired for them to do so. And whilst Mr P hasnt focussed on this in his submissions, I 
agree with TSB that chargeback was no longer an option at the relevant time. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr P has lost so much money and I understand his strength of feeling. 
But as I dont think TSB handled matters poorly  Im not going to tell them to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman