DRN-2871955
The complaint
Ms G complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms G, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms G acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Ms G. The car here was almost 
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when VWFS were responsible for its quality, 
unless they can demonstrate otherwise. Whilst I understand Ms G returned her car to the 
dealership within the first six months they didnt identify a fault with the car and Ms G didnt 
return the car to them for about another year.
After the first six months the onus is on the consumer to demonstrate any problem the car is 
experiencing was present or was developing from inception of the agreement.
Im not persuaded that Ms G has been able to do that because:
Our investigator spoke to the third-party garage who had suggested there was a fault 
with the car. They explained that they hadnt inspected the heater matrix and had 
only suggested this may be the problem. They had no paperwork to support their 
diagnosis but did comment that the interior seals were fine, and the upholstery wasnt 
damp. I dont think they provided sufficient evidence there was a fault  only a 
suspicion there may be one.
The dealership carried out a further inspection in February 2020 in the light of the 
third-party garages comments but again couldnt find any faults. 
Whilst I have seen the photographs and video of condensation forming I dont think 
they can fairly be said to demonstrate there is a problem with the car that prevents 
that condensation being removed.
So, Im afraid I dont think I have enough evidence to suggest this car is not of satisfactory 
quality.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman