The complaint
Mr T complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) didn't tell him about a claim they'd 
handled and settled on his behalf. So, he wasn't able to tell his new motor insurer about this, 
and it resulted in his new policy being voided.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I won't repeat them again 
here. Instead I'll focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mr T's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome he hoped for, but I'll give my reasons below.
RSA contacted Mr T when they were made aware of the accident from the third
party's insurer. And Mr T completed a form confirming the accident happened and
admitting liability. I appreciate Mr T wasn't planning on making a claim. But as a third
party's insurer had contacted RSA, I don't consider it's unreasonable for Mr T to have
been aware there was a possibility a claim might have been made by the third party.
So, I consider it would have been reasonable for Mr T to check this before taking out
a new motor policy.
Mr T's policy says RSA can settle claims in his name. So, I don't consider
RSA treated Mr T unfairly when they settled the third party's claim after Mr T
confirmed he was at fault for the accident.
The insurer that voided Mr T's policy has told us that when he took out that policy he
was asked "Has any driver ever been involved in or suffered any incident, accident or
loss regardless of whether a claim was made or not, on any vehicle or policy during
the last five years". This means Mr T was expected to tell his new insurer about all
accidents he'd been involved in the last five years - regardless of whether a claim
had been made.
Mr T's testimony to RSA and our service confirms he was aware of the accident. And
as it happened within the five years before taking out the new policy, he had all the
information he needed to correctly answer the question above.
DRN-1686714For the reasons above, I don't agree with Mr T's assertion that RSA hadn't followed
the Treating Customers Fairly principles.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding Mr T's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman