DRN-4234590
The complaint
Mr C  is unhappy with the problems he experienced when he tried to open a bank account 
with J.P. Morgan Europe Limited (trading as Chase) as well as the customer service he 
received.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr C tried to open a bank account using the Chase mobile banking app. He 
explains he made numerous attempts but kept receiving an error message that his details 
couldnt be verified. He called Chase and explained the problem he was having.
Chase explained that the issues were due to the name layout, or the middle name being 
entered twice and it not matching the identification documents provided. They removed Mr 
C's application from the system to enable him to start again. They asked Mr C  to enter his 
first, middle and surname in the appropriate boxes. This resolved the issue, and his account 
was opened the same day.
Mr C  raised a complaint about the problems hed experienced which meant he had to spend 
a few hours to get his account opened. He asked Chase to investigate what went wrong. 
Chase offered Mr C £15 but explained that there was no bank error and the issues occurred 
due to the information being typed incorrectly on the application. Mr C didnt agree hed 
made any mistakes, so Chase escalated the matter to their IT department for further 
investigation.
Chase contacted Mr C  and explained that they didnt find any system errors on the day of 
his application. They explained the images Mr C submitted had a slight glare on his passport 
which was why theyd asked him to re-take some of the photographs. They said their image 
verification system is automated and reviews all incoming images. The glare on the passport 
photograph was causing issues before the name format was changed. The offered £25 as a 
gesture of goodwill for the frustration Mr C experienced.
Mr C  didnt accept that the issue was with the photographs he submitted. He explained he 
took the photographs in focus and were free from glare as he made sure the lighting wasnt 
an issue. He asked Chase to send him the photographs he submitted on the day. 
He also said that the agent hed spoken to on the day of his application had told him that the 
application failed due to his name being duplicated. And it was only after his application was 
archived and he applied again it worked. So, he didnt think the photographs were the issue. 
Chase sent Mr C  the photographs hed requested and explained that the most theyd be 
willing to offer in terms of compensation was £50 which was credited to the account. They 
reiterated that they didnt experience any issues on the banking app on the day of his 
application.
Mr C  remained unhappy with the resolutions offered and asked to speak to a manager which 
Chase agreed to arrange. When Mr C didnt receive the call back, he messaged Chase and 
asked that hes given a call back as promised to him previously. 
A manager contacted Mr C  and apologised for not calling him sooner. They agreed that the 
photographs werent the issue and believed it was the format of the name. They said that the 
middle name was duplicated and couldve been down to Mr C's phone pre-populating the 
details. Mr C  explained that he didnt have this option on his phone and felt that Chase was 
blaming him, when he didnt enter his name incorrectly. 
The manager reiterated that the IT department had confirmed th at Chase didnt have any 
technical issues on the day of the application and didnt accept there was a bank error. They 
offered a further £30 compensation which was credited to Mr C's account. Mr C asked 
Chase to complete a full investigation and for the matter to be looked into further. 
Chase escalated the matter with their onboarding team and contacted Mr C with further 
information. They explained there was a mismatch with the middle name, and this was the 
only reason that the identification and selfies werent accepted. Mr C remained unhappy, but 
Chase explained their outcome remained the same.
Mr C asked Chase to provide him with a copy of his application which shows exactly how he 
entered his name during each attempt. He explained the information Chase had given him 
didnt show this.
Chase issued their final response letter on 20 Septembe r 2022, reiterating the ir position. 
They explained they won t be awarding a ny furthe r compensation o r looking into the case 
any further as they considered the matter to be closed.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator said that the offer of £80 
compensation that Chase had made, fairly reflected the inconvenience Mr C was caused in 
opening his account and any confusion around the reasons for why the problem arose. Mr C 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He gave an example with 
evidence of when the message s in the Chase banking app were duplicated which he feels 
was the same issue when he attempted to open his account, and says it shows the banking 
app ha s problems.
He told us about another complaint which Chase initiall y rejected, but afte r he provided 
screensh ots a s evidence of the issue with the banking app, the outcome of thi s was 
overturned in his favour. He believes this shows errors with the banking app. 
Mr C also wanted it taken into account that hed spent a significant amount of time in dealing 
with the issues, as well as Chases handling of his concerns, which made his mental health 
conditions worse due to him being off on long term sickness at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr C  would like to understand the exact reasons for the problems he 
experienced when he tried to open his account. However, as our investigator has explained, 
we arent able to carry out a forensic investigation to establish the exact cause of the 
problem he faced when opening his account.We asked Chase to provide a copy of Mr C's application which shows exactly how he 
entered his name at each attempt. But Chase havent provided us with this information. 
Instead, theyve shared the notes from their onboarding team which theyve also provided to 
Mr C . This shows that there was a data mismatch on the first four attempts Mr C made, and 
the reason noted each time was missing middle name. 
Mr C  strongly denies entering his name incorrectly four times. He has explained he carefully 
checks all the personal details on forms, in particular when applying for financial products.  
Im persuaded by Mr C  as I think its unlikely he entered his name incorrectly missing out his 
middle name four times.
However, I can see from the call transcript of when Mr C spoke to Chase on the day of his 
application, he said hed tried entering his name multiple different ways and it hadnt worked. 
I think its reasonable that Mr C attempted to troubleshoot the issue himself by trying other 
combinations of his name on the form. 
So, I think this explains why at least one or some of the data mismatches occurred, but as I 
explained above, I dont think its likely Mr C  failed to enter his middle name correctly on all 
four attempts. 
While the evidence Chase has provided shows what was causing the problem, I dont think 
it supports their stance that Mr C entered the information incorrectly. As Mr C  has 
suggested, there couldve been an error with the banking app which caused an issue with 
his middle name. 
I note Chase have provided evidence which shows there were no known issues with the 
banking app on the day of Mr C's application. Ive taken this into account, but I dont think it 
rules out the possibility of a temporary and/or unreported issue on the day, much like the 
other problems Mr C  experienced with the banking app which hes evidenced. So, I think its 
one plausible explanation of why the issues occurred.
The issues Mr C experienced at other times with the banking app arent definitive proof that 
there was a problem with the banking app on the day of his application. Whilst its possible 
there was an issue with the banking app which caused the problems with Mr C's application, 
there isnt sufficient evidence to say with complete certainty thats the case.
Howe ver, even if I found tha t Chase was responsible for the issue eithe r due to a problem 
with the banking app or for some other reaso n, I don t think Chase need to do anything else 
to put things right here as I think theyve already offered a fair resolution to the complaint.
I appreciate Mr C  spent around three hours trying to open his account and I accept this 
wouldve caused him some frustration, inconvenience and annoyance. However, when Mr C 
contacted Chase about the problem he experienced, they quickly resolved the issue helping 
him successfully submit his application and his account was opened the same day. 
While Mr C  was caused some distress and inconvenience, I dont think it was more than the 
nuisances you might expect from everyday life. Dealing with financial service s isnt always 
hassle free and were al l inconvenienced at times in day-to-da y life, and it isnt unusual to 
experience some frustration and annoyance.
That said, I think Chase let Mr C down with level of customer service they provided when he 
raised a complaint. Chase gave Mr C contradictory information about the cause of the 
issues hed experienced. I can understand why this wouldve made Mr C feel like his 
concerns werent taken seriously. There were also significant delays with Chase arranging 
for a manager to call Mr C, as theyd promised, and dealing with this complaint. This meant Mr C 
had to chase this up causing him further frustration and inconvenience. 
Mr C  doesnt appear to have received the final response letter that Chase sent him on 20 
September 2022, however, Ive seen evidence that Chase sent Mr C this correspondence. 
So, I dont think they can fairly be held responsible for the inconvenience Mr C was caused 
by having to contact them again to follow up on his complaint.
I appreciate Mr C doesnt feel Chase have investigated his concerns in sufficient detail. 
However, I think Chase have done enough to look into Mr C's concerns. They escalated the 
matter to their IT department as well as their onboarding team when Mr C remained 
unhappy. Although Mr C  wanted them to look into the matter further, Chase were within 
their rights to provide their final response letter and refer him to our service. 
Chase have paid Mr C  £80 compensation in total. Taking everything into account, Im 
satisfied this is fair and reasonable under the circumstances in recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience Mr C was caused. I realise Mr C will be disappointed as hes seeking a 
higher amount of compensation. But having considered everything, Im satisfied the impact 
on him wasnt significant enough to warrant any further compensation. 
Overall, Im satisfied Chase have resolved this complaint fairly and I wont be asking them to 
do anything else to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 Janua ry 2024.
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman