DRN-3402613
The complaint
D complains about the decision of Arch Insurance (UK) Limited to decline its business 
interruption insurance claim for losses resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
The following is intended purely as a summary. And although other parties were involved in 
the relevant communications, I have just referred to D and Arch for the sake of simplicity.
D held Offices & Surgeries insurance policy underwritten by Arch. The policy schedule lists 
Ds business as lease broking. The policy provided cover for a number of areas of risk, 
including for business interruption. In March 2020, D contacted Arch to claim for losses it 
was sustaining as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. D said that it had been forced to 
close its business as a result of the pandemic and the government-imposed restrictions 
introduced to control the spread of COVID-19.
Arch declined the claim. It said that there was no cover under the Disease extension to the 
business interruption section of Ds policy, as the cover here was limited to a specified list of 
diseases that did not include COVID-19. And Arch said that there was no cover under the 
Government Action extension because D was not prevented from accessing its premises. 
D was unhappy with the decline, and argued that it had been prevented from accessing its 
premises. When Arch did not change its decision, D referred its complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld though. Whilst she 
acknowledged that Ds business would have been impacted by the pandemic, she did not 
think the Governments rules meant that access to Ds premises was prevented. D remained 
unsatisfied and so its complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact COVID-19 
restrictions have had on D, I wont be upholding its complaint. My reasons are substantially 
the same as the Investigators.
The type of cover Ds looking to claim under is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons. The starting 
point is to consider the specific policy D took out.
I am aware that D has focussed its arguments around the Government Action extension, but 
for the sake of completeness, I will briefly deal with the other areas of potential cover.
The standard cover provided by the business interruption section of Ds policy, as well as a 
number of the extensions to this cover, is based on an interruption to the business of the 
insured which has been caused by damage to property. Whilst I appreciate the pandemic 
has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think COVID-19 caused damage to property 
which has led to an interruption of Ds business.
So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ds claim. And I think 
Arch acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ds claim under this area of cover.
Ds policy does include an extension to the business interruption section that provides cover 
where a disease has led to the premises being closed. But this is limited to providing cover 
in the event of certain diseases. COVID-19 is not one of the diseases listed so I dont think 
this provides cover in the circumstance of Ds claim. 
When reaching this finding Im mindful that COVID-19 is a new disease that no-one had the 
foresight to cover, and that it might not have been possible for Arch to include it in the policy 
at the time it was written. But I dont think that changes anything. Thats because I dont think 
Arch intended to, or suggested they would, provide cover for all diseases. Arch deliberately 
chose to limit the cover provided by reference to a static list of certain diseases. So, the 
policy clearly only intended to cover certain diseases. And I dont think it can fairly and 
reasonably be read in a different way.
I dont think the list is indicative of the kind of diseases that are included, I think its an 
exhaustive list. There is nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for other 
diseases, including any new diseases which might emerge. As Ive said above, a range of 
policies are available. And some provide cover for all notifiable diseases  a list of diseases 
updated by the Government. These policies might, depending on the circumstances, provide 
cover. But this is not the type of policy D has.
I think the purpose and effect of the policy D has is to provide cover in the event of the 
diseases listed in the policy. There are many potential illnesses and diseases that the policy 
does not cover including, for example, SARS (another type of Coronavirus). I dont think the 
policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all diseases that fall outside of the 
defined list set out in the policy.
Ds claim resulted from a disease that was not included in the list of covered diseases. As 
cover was not provided under this area of Ds policy for losses resulting from business 
interruption caused by COVID-19, I am satisfied Archs decision to decline the claim was in 
line with the policy, and in all the circumstances of this case fair and reasonable.
The Government Action extension
The extension to the business interruption section in Ds policy that has been the main focus 
of discussion is the Government or Local Authority Action extension. This provides cover 
where there has been:
Prevention of access to The Premises due to the actions or advice of a government 
or local authority due to an emergency which is likely to endanger life or property.
The Premises are defined as, effectively, Ds place of business. There are a number of 
exclusions and limitations to this extension, but none are directly relevant. So, I consider the 
key issue is whether there was a prevention of access to Ds premises as a result of the 
actions or advice of the Government. The Government did impose a number of restrictions in March 2020. Largely these were 
those set out in the Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 
2020 (the March Regulations), although these in part replaced some existing regulations. 
The March Regulations required certain types of business to close. 
Regulation 4(4) of the March Regulations said:
A person responsible for carrying on a business or providing a service which is listed 
in Part 2 of Schedule 2 must cease to carry on that business or to provide that 
service during the emergency period.
Part 2 of Schedule 2 then listed a number of business types. None of those listed are the 
type of business D operates as; although car showrooms was listed as a type of business 
required to close. 
Regulation 5(1) then went on to say:
A person responsible for carrying on a business, not listed in Part 3 of Schedule 2, 
of offering goods for sale or for hire in a shop, or providing library services must, 
during the emergency period
(a)cease to carry on that business
Part 3 of Schedule 2 then lists a number of other types of business. These businesses were 
allowed to remain open. This list includes Taxi or vehicle hire businesses.
D has argued that it was a non-essential shop or business offering goods for sale or hire. 
And so falls under the restriction imposed by regulation 5 above. 
D has said that it is not a vehicle rental services company, so does not fall into the excluded 
businesses in Part 3 of Schedule 2. And has explained that it is a brokerage company, 
locating available vehicles and obtaining the best price for 3 or 4 year leases. 
D does not provide either the vehicle or the finance though. As such, I dont think it can be 
said to have either sold or hired goods itself. It provides a service, rather than goods. The 
goods (the vehicles), are provided by other parties. And the service it provides is not a library 
service. So, I do not agree that it falls under the restriction imposed by regulation 5. 
It seems that the service D provides is one that it carries out from an office. Whilst I note that 
some customers might be required to provide certain documentation, which was something 
that they often might do in person, it doesnt seem there was any part of Ds business which 
actually required customers to visit its offices. Documents could be posted, for example, and 
whilst this might not be as convenient or efficient, I am not persuaded that this would prevent 
D operating. 
There were general requirements on people to remain at home during the period the March 
Regulations were in force. Regulation 6(1) said:
During the emergency period, no person may leave the place where they are living 
without reasonable excuse. 
However, it then listed a number of reasonable excuses. And this included the need to 
work, where this was not possible from home. So, I dont think any of Ds staff would have 
been prevented from attending their premises if needed. 
Ultimately, I dont consider access to Ds premises was prevented by the actions or advice of 
the Government or a local authority. I do note that D has said that it received a Small Business Grant, and has said that these 
were only provided to businesses that were required to close. But this is not the case. The 
eligibility requirement for these grants does not state a business needed to have been 
closed, and indeed my understanding is that many grants were paid to support businesses 
that remained open. 
I also appreciate that D has said that it operates out of a larger building and that it was 
subject to the actions of the landlord. However, from the evidence provided, it does not seem 
that either the landlord required D not to operate or, indeed, that the building was closed. I 
note Ds comments that at least one other business within the building was a care home and 
so was not required to close. But I dont think this changes the situation. D itself was not 
required to close either. Its landlord apparently only asked D to confirm whether its staff 
would be working, so that it was aware of who would be on-site. Additionally, even if Ds 
landlord had closed the overall premises, it would be necessary to consider whether this 
meant any prevention of access to Ds premises was as a result of the actions or advice of 
the Government (or a local authority)  as opposed to another party. 
Finally, I also recognise that the closure of car showrooms and other businesses related to 
Ds activities may have had a significant impact on its ability to operate effectively. However, 
whilst I am sorry that this will no doubt have caused D to suffer losses through no fault of its 
own, this did not cause a prevention of access to its premises  which is what this extension 
provides cover for.
Taking all of this into account, I am not persuaded that access to Ds premises was 
prevented. D took what may have been both a commercially sensible and socially 
responsible decision to stop working from its premises. But this was not something it was 
required to do as a result of the actions or advice of a government or local authority. As 
such, I dont consider Archs decision to decline Ds claim under this extension to have been 
inappropriate.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means Arch should have met Ds claim. I know this decision will be disappointing 
for D and its director, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why this 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman