DRN-3484966
The complaint
Ms M complains through her representative that Oplo PL Ltd lent her money on a high cost 
loan which she was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Oplo provided Ms M with a loan of £7,500 on 24 January 2018, repayable over 42 months at 
the rate of £258 a month. She settled the loan in full in October 2018.
Ms M complained that the loan was unaffordable and that Oplo didnt ask to see her bank 
statements and other information in its affordability assessment.
Oplo said it had reviewed her information, noting that she split the household bills and 
mortgage with her partner. It said the loan was partly for consolidation and it paid off a loan 
and a credit card from the new loan before releasing the balance to her. With the new loan it 
assessed that she had a monthly disposable income of £268. It further pointed out that Ms M 
had kept all her payments up to date (apart from one which was due to an issue with her 
wages and was paid before any arrears had accrued). It said that with the new loan payment 
her new credit commitments amounted to about 46% of her income. 
Our adjudicator said that the ratio of her income to credit commitments could have amounted 
to about 52% and that the loan was unaffordable. So Oplo should repay all the interest and 
other charges on the loan.
Oplo disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Oplo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms M would 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms M would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Oplo to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Ms Ms ability to make the repayments under the agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Oplo had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Oplo had to ensure that making the 
repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Ms M undue difficulty or significant adverse 
consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of normal 
income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any other 
payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the repayments 
having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Oplo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms M. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Considering Ms Ms income, the loan required a considerable commitment from her. So Oplo 
should have carried out a thorough assessment of Ms Ms financial circumstances at the 
time of the application.
Looking at the credit report obtained at the time of the application, Ms M did have substantial 
credit commitments. She had three credit cards, two of which were at just about their limit 
and one on which she had a balance of £1,521, £21 over the limit. Her bank account was 
overdrawn by £2,984, with a limit of £3,000. So although she wasnt in arrears and had no 
missed payments she was still in a position where taking out more credit could have been 
problematic for her.
Oplos loan was partly for consolidation of existing debts and it paid off the £1,521 credit 
card balance and a mail order account for £2,044. The balance was paid to Ms M and was 
for home improvements. However the debt consolidation freed up about £107 a month, but 
with the new loan her credit commitments had increased by about £150 a month. And as 
Oplo has itself assessed, her new credit commitments amounted to about 46% of her 
income. This in my view is very high and is a factor the FCA (Financial Conduct Authority) 
consumer credit rules say should be taken into account. The rules dont specify a 
percentage but I think the 46% assessed by Oplo itself is very high. 
The rules dont require businesses to obtain bank statements and, as I havent seen any of 
Ms Ms bank statements, I cant say what they would have shown. Although we do know 
from the credit report that she was substantially overdrawn. So Oplos lending decision had 
to be based on the information it had obtained.
Ive noted Oplos assessment of Ms Ms monthly disposable income, but its not just the 
pounds and pence figure we take into account. Bearing in mind the other issues concerning Ms Ms credit record, I think that with the information it had, Oplo shouldnt have lent Ms M 
the money and that it didnt therefore make a fair lending decision.
On Oplos point about Ms Ms record with keeping up the payments, bearing in mind that she 
only kept the loan for nine months I dont think very much could be read into this. She 
presumably got another loan to pay it off. In any event I have to look at the lending decision 
at the time of the application.
Putting things right
Ms M has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Oplo should refund all interest and 
charges as follows:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Ms M as payments towards the capital amount of £7,500.
If Ms M has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 
8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information where appropriate about the loan from Ms Ms credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Ms M 
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Oplo PL Ltd to provide the remedy set out under Putting 
things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman