DRN-3866440
The complaint
Ms G says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) had a running credit facility that was 
unaffordable for her. She also says, when she told Drafty that she had a negative disposable 
income each month it wouldnt freeze the interest on the facility unless she entered into a 
repayment plan. She feels she has been treated unfairly. 
 
What happened
Ms G approached Drafty for a running credit facility in September 2021 and she was given a
facility with a £830 credit limit. In March 2022, this limit was increased to £1,130. 
Ms G has had some problems repaying the outstanding balance and Drafty has explained 
the account has been passed to a third-party collection agency, although ownership of the 
debt remains with it. 
Ms G made a complaint to Drafty on 8 May 2022 about irresponsible lending, with Drafty 
issuing its final response on the matter on 25 May 2022. Drafty didnt uphold the complaint 
as it deemed that it had carried out proportionate affordability checks both when the facility 
was granted and while Ms G held the facility. 
Unhappy with this response, Ms G referred the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Gs complaint and she partly upheld it. Firstly, she 
thought the checks Drafty carried out before the facility was proportionate and the income, 
expenditure and credit check data showed the facility to be affordable. 
Secondly, the adjudicator considered whether it was reasonable for Drafty to have increased 
the credit limit in March 2022. The adjudicator reviewed how Ms G had used the facility and 
there were no signs of likely financial difficulties  as Ms G had paid more than the minimum 
monthly repayment due. So, the adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Gs complaint about the 
approval of the facility or the credit limit increase. 
However, once Drafty knew about Ms Gs financial difficulties, the adjudicator concluded that 
it was reasonable of it to offer her a repayment plan. On 29 June 2022, Ms G completed an 
income and expenditure form, which showed, she had no disposable income each month. 
However, despite knowing Ms G couldnt afford the repayments Drafty said it couldnt stop 
the interest, fees or charges from being added until a suitable repayment plan was agreed.
 
Given industry regulations, the adjudicator thought, at this time, it wouldve been reasonable 
and proportionate to have frozen the interest on the account. So, she concluded, that Drafty 
hadnt treated Ms G fairly or with forbearance. 
In order to put things right, she recommended Drafty remove from the outstanding balance 
any interest charged after 29 June 2022 and pay Ms G £150 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
Ms G appears to have agreed with the proposed outcome by the adjudicator. 
Drafty didnt fully agree, and Ive summarised its response below;
A repayment plan wasnt put in place because it was clear one wasnt affordable to 
Ms G and couldve put her into further financial difficulties. 
It was reasonable for Drafty to have accepted the information provided to it by Ms G 
as part of her income and expenditure information when she requested a repayment 
plan. 
Drafty sign-posted her to seek third party debt advice. 
Interest can only be stopped on the facility if an alternate payment arrangement is 
made. 
The facility wouldve terminated once a certain level of arrears were met. Drafty says 
on 10 July 2022, it sent a default notice to Ms G and the facility was terminated on 
30 July 2022. After this date, no further interest was charged. 
Had Drafty sent a default notice on or before 29 June 2022, then Ms G wouldve 
been treated differently to other customers. The same could be said, if the account 
was terminated before 30 July 2022. 
However, as a matter of discretion Drafty offered to remove the interest added to the facility 
from 29 June 2022 until the account was defaulted on 30 July 2022. Drafty said, this will 
reduce Ms Gs outstanding balance by £55.80. However, Drafty declined to make the 
distress and inconvenience payment because We did precisely what we should have done 
in this case.
The offer was put to Ms G and the adjudicator explained the refund Drafty had offered. She 
also explained the information about the default, and why she thought, given what Drafty 
knew it wasnt unreasonable for the default to have been applied.  
Ms G didnt accept the offer and asked for the case to be escalated. She also explained 
shed recently obtained a new loan from Draftys parent company. But I say no more about 
that here as this complaint is solely to do with Draftys actions or inactions. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to issue a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
In practice, before any lending was advanced, Drafty had to take proportionate steps to 
ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable 
manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had 
to gather enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Ms G was given an open-ended credit facility. Overall, I think that this means the checks 
Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether Ms G would 
be able to not only service but also repay her facility within a reasonable period of time. Drafty also needed to monitor Ms Gs repayment record for any signs that she may have 
been experiencing financial difficulties.
But for completeness, and in summary, I do agree given the income and expenditure 
information Ms G provided when she applied for the facility along with the credit check 
results which Drafty obtained, it couldve been confident shed be able to afford the 
repayments that she was committed to making in order to repay the facility within a 
reasonable period of time. 
I also dont think Drafty was wrong to have increased the credit limit in March 2022, as there 
were no signs of financial difficulties. So, I do not uphold Ms Gs complaint about the 
approval of the facility as well or the credit limit increase. 
Ive also considered what Drafty says about why it doesnt consider it made an error after 
finding out that Ms G didnt have any disposable income to either afford her monthly 
repayments or enough for her to be put on a payment plan that wouldve stopped further 
interest fees and charges. 
However, Drafty has now offered to refund any extra interest added to the balance from 
29 June 2022, I therefore, no longer need to make a formal finding on this, but I have 
included, at the end of the decision, the offer in the putting things right section. 
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Drafty should or should not  given the 
circumstances of the complaint, make a payment for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Ms G. 
Below, Ive provided a timeline of key events in this case, which is useful in understanding 
what has happened.
On 29 May, Ms G emailed Drafty asking to pay £50 per month towards her balance  
presumably as part of an agreed repayment plan. On 30 May 2022, Drafty responded 
outlining that before it would agree a repayment plan it would need to see Ms Gs income 
and expenditure details. 
On 1 June 2022, Ms G emailed asking Drafty to stop the interest on the account. Clearly, 
from this email, Ms G was aware of the situation with regards to the interest and was trying 
her best to prevent the account balance from increasing any further. 
Drafty responded on 7 June 2022, reminded her that she needed to return the income and 
expenditure information to set up a payment arrangement. At this point, I agree that Drafty 
had treated Ms G fairly and with forbearance.  
On 29 June 2022, Ms G must have spoken to someone on the phone, because it is 
referenced in an email on the same day. Ms G said:
I have called up and done my income an expenditure. The woman on the phone said 
they were unable to freeze the interest on the account even though I am at -£5 on my 
income and expenditure and I am in financial hardship so this seems very 
irresponsible. To be seen to be placing more debt on someone who is already 
showing that I am getting snowed under isnt right. Can I request any information you 
hold on my account to be sent to myself.
Drafty responded on 4 July 2022, out lining why it couldnt freeze the account, but it did 
signpost Ms G to a third-party money advice service. Which isnt necessary an incorrect 
course of action to take  but it still left Ms G knowing she had a sizeable balance with Drafty, and that balance was continuing to increase even though she knew she had no 
money to service it. 
I do think its unlikely, at this point that Drafty did all it couldve done. After all, it knew Ms G 
was in financial difficulties following a review of her income and expenditure information, and 
its response to that, was it couldnt freeze the interest because a plan couldnt be set up. 
There were of course other options available to it. 
Drafty then defaulted the account from 30 July 2022, which meant Ms Gs balance wouldnt 
increase any further. However, I have had to consider, whether because of what happened 
had Ms G been caused distress and inconvenience after in effect being told that there wasnt 
anything Drafty could do to assist her at the time to prevent the balance from increasing, 
given what it knew of her situation.   
I do think its debatable, at this time, whether Drafty was really treating Ms G fairly. But, as 
Ive said above, I dont need to make a finding about this because although Drafty has 
explained why it doesnt consider an error has been made, none the less it has offered 
redress in line with what the adjudicator recommended. 
Clearly, Ms G knew that she was having financial difficulties  because she raised a 
complaint. She was also clear, at least from the start of June 2022 that she wanted the 
interest to be stopped on the facility. Presumably, because she didnt want to get any further 
into debt with Drafty than what she already was. Indeed, this was reinforced by the contents 
of the above email. 
She gave Drafty the income and expenditure information as requested, and the response to 
this was that it couldnt stop the interest. So, Ms G, knew she was in difficulties, asked for 
help and assistance and was in effect told, that the balance will carry on going up. I have no 
doubt, after being told this, that she wouldve likely been worried about her ever increasing 
balance that she owed Drafty and compounded her situation. 
I accept Drafty has provided a full explanation as to why it took the steps it did, but 
ultimately, none of this was conveyed to Ms G at the time, and she clearly has been left 
worried about her balance and why the interest couldnt be stopped. 
So, by the end of June 2022, Ms G has approached Drafty for assistance to limit her 
indebtedness and to stop the debt from growing and instead, Drafty said she could seek 
independent help and explained why it couldnt freeze the account at this time. 
The adjudicator suggested a payment of £150 in recognition of the distress and I consider 
the suggested sum to be fair and reasonable. So, I will be directing Drafty to make that 
payment to Ms G. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Drafty should carry out the below:
As it has already agreed to do, Drafty should reduce Ms Gs outstanding balance by 
removing the interest that was added after 29 June 2022. Drafty says this amount is 
£55.80. 
In the individual circumstance of the case, pay Ms G directly £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience that was caused. 
I would remind both parties that an outstanding balance remains due and Drafty has an 
obligation to treat Ms G fairly and with forbearance moving forward. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Gs complaint in part.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Ms G as directed 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman