DRN-3064150
The complaint
Mr K complains that UK Credit Limited (UKC) lent to him in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mr K was given a single loan by UKC in August 2019. He borrowed £2,500 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 42 monthly instalments. The loan was guaranteed by Mr Ks friend. Mr K 
repaid the loan earlier than planned, in June 2020.
Mr Ks complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the results 
of UKCs checks should have led the lender to decline Mr Ks loan application. So he thought 
the complaint should be upheld and asked UKC to pay Mr K some compensation.
UKC didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr K accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ks complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time UKC gave this loan to Mr K required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so UKC had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr K. In practice this 
meant that UKC had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr K undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for UKC to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr K. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether UKC did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr K.
UKC gathered some information from Mr K before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure. It checked his credit file to assess how much he 
was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past. And it asked 
Mr K for a copy of his bank statement from the month before so it could verify some of the 
information hed provided.
Mr K was entering into a significant commitment with UKC. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of more than three years. So I think it was right that UKC wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ks financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above 
were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that UKCs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.  
The information that Mr K initially provided to UKC about his expenditure wasnt entirely 
supported by the bank statement that he supplied. There were a number of items where 
UKC decided to use an amount different to what Mr K had declared when considering the 
affordability of the loan. Of most concern was that Mr K appeared to have overstated his 
income. I accept that UKCs third party check supported the level of income Mr K declared. 
But the evidence from his bank statement suggested that he actually earned much less.
The credit check showed that Mr K was already making extensive use of other credit. He 
had a large hire purchase loan, and another guarantor loan, that together had a combined 
outstanding balance of almost £25,000. Both the loans had been taken less than four 
months earlier. The repayments on those two loans took up more than one third of the 
income that UKC saw on Mr Ks bank statements. The credit check also showed that Mr K 
was using a credit card, that had exceeded its agreed credit limit. It also showed that Mr K 
had been late, or had missed, making some repayments on that card in the past year.
UKC discussed the loans and credit card account with Mr K before it gave him the loan. It 
accepted the explanations that he gave. On balance I find what Mr K said to be less than 
satisfactory and I think it should have caused concerns to UKC.
Mr K said that the large guarantor loan had been taken to fund the purchase of a 
conservatory for the property where he was living. But hed previously told UKC that he was 
living in a flat above the restaurant in which he worked  and that his accommodation and its bills were paid for by his employer. UKC did question why Mr K would spend such a large 
amount on improvements to a property that he didnt own. Mr K said that he intended to stay 
in the property for a number of years, and that if he left his employment sooner, his employer 
would reimburse him for the cost of the conservatory. I find that explanation stretches the 
bounds of reasonableness and think, at the very least, it should have been explored in far 
more detail by UKC.
Mr Ks credit card was over its limit. He explained that his girlfriend had used the card, 
spending more than hed anticipated. But that didnt explain the repayment problems that 
were shown earlier in the year.
Once Mr K began repaying the loan from UKC, alongside his other borrowing and what he 
said he normally repaid on his credit card, Mr K would be using around half of his income to 
repay debt. Despite what Mr K had said about his relatively low living expenses I dont 
consider that to be a sustainable position. By providing further borrowing UKC simply added 
to the financial pressures that Mr K was already facing in managing his debts. So I dont 
think UKC should have agreed to lend to Mr K and needs to pay him some compensation.
 
Putting things right
I dont think UKC should have agreed to lend to Mr K in August 2019. So UKC should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr K paid on the loan 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires UKC to take off tax from this interest. UKC must give 
Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to put things 
right as detailed above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman