DRN-2834184
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, increased the credit 
limit on her credit account, which she feels was unaffordable for her at that time.
What happened
In February 2017, Barclays increased the limit on Mrs Rs credit account from £9,300 to 
£10,800. Mrs R continued to make payments towards the account until August 2020, when 
her repayments stopped. This ultimately resulted in Mrs Rs account being defaulted by 
Barclays in January 2021.
In November 2020, Mrs R raised a complaint with Barclays as she felt that the credit limit 
increase on her account in February 2017 had been unaffordable for her at that time.
Barclays looked at Mrs Rs complaint. They explained that theyd conducted checks into Mrs 
Rs financial position at the time of the credit limit increase, and that these checks hadnt 
demonstrated that the credit limit increase would be unaffordable for Mrs R. So, they didnt 
uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Mrs R wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that, from the information that 
they had available to them, it wasnt possible to conclude that the credit limit increase had 
been unaffordable for Mrs R. So, they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be that the business would 
undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to confirm that any credit limit increases 
being provided to a customer were affordable for that customer at that time.
Barclays say that they did that here. They assessed Mrs Rs management of her credit 
account up to that point and obtained information from credit refence agencies to gain an 
understanding of Mrs Rs wider financial position at that time, including her calculated 
monthly income and expenditure. And Barclays have confirmed that there was nothing 
resultant from these checks that gave them causes to consider that the credit limit increase 
might not be affordable for Mrs R at the time that it was provided.
This service hasnt been provided with a copy of Mrs Rs credit file, which means that Im 
unable to determine whether there was anything visible to Barclays within Mrs Rs credit file 
that should have given them cause for concern.
Furthermore, while Mrs R has stated that Barclays assessment of her income and 
expenditure wasnt correct, this service hasnt been provided with sufficient evidence to allow 
Mrs Rs position to be corroborated.
This means that its very difficult for me to conclude that Barclays assessment of the 
affordability of the credit limit increase for Mrs R was flawed, and I say this because there 
isnt the information available to me to reach such a conclusion.
However, this service has been provided historical statements for Mrs Rs credit account, 
which means that Ive been able to check Mrs Rs usage of the account in the months 
leading up to the credit increase and beyond. 
Having done so, while Mrs Rs account balance was relatively close to the credit limit, Mrs R 
was making the necessary payments to the account to keep that balance reasonably stable, 
even though she continued to use the account for occasional spend.
Its also the case that in the period after the credit limit increase was applied Mrs R didnt 
immediately use the additional credit available to her. And its notable that when Mrs R did 
use the additional credit, she did so to fund an overseas holiday. This means that it wasnt 
the case that Mrs R used the additional credit on essential spend or on paying off other 
debts, such that it would provide an indication that she was in financial difficulty at that time.
And, while its evident that Mrs Rs financial position did deteriorate, as evidenced by her 
being unable to continue with the account repayments from August 2020 onwards, it doesnt 
necessarily follow from this that the credit limit increase on her account was unaffordable for 
her in February 2017.
All of which means that, from the limited information thats been made available to me, its 
very difficult for me to conclude that Barclay acted unfairly or unreasonably in offering, and 
then implementing, the credit limit increase on Mrs Rs account.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs R was wanting here, but if follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action at this 
time. I hope that Mrs R can understand, given everything Ive explained, why I have made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman