DRN-4124712
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as B, is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt send
correspondence about its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) to the correct address, which meant B
wasnt notified that its BBL was in arrears before it was defaulted.
Bs complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr P.
What happened
In May 2020, B successfully applied to Lloyds for a £16,000 BBL. B received the BBL funds
that same month, and its obligation to begin making monthly payments towards the BBL
began in June 2021.
But while B did make the first payment required of it in June 2021, the next payment  in July
2021  was returned unpaid. Lloyds sent letters to B about the missed payment. But B didnt
take any action to clear the missed payment arears, and further payments werent made by
B in both November and December 2021.
In January 2022, with the arrears on Bs BBL still unpaid, Lloyds sent a formal demand
notice to B which confirmed that the BBL agreement had been broken because of non-
payment and that B was now required to repay the full outstanding BBL balance within 14
days. Mr P wasnt happy about this, especially as he hadnt received any prior letters from
Lloyds about the BBL arrears, and so he raised a complaint on Bs behalf.
Lloyds responded to Bs complaint. They acknowledged that, while the formal demand notice
had been sent to an address where it had been received by Mr P, they had incorrectly
updated the address they held for B and had sent the arrears notification letters to that
incorrect address. Lloyds apologised for this, and they made a payment of £30 to B as
compensation for any inconvenience it may have incurred as a result.
However, Lloyds didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by terminating Bs BBL agreement for non-
payment as they had, and so they didnt uphold that aspect of Bs complaint. Mr P wasnt
satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred Bs complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that B would most likely have
cleared the arrears on the BBL had it received notice of those arrears from Lloyds and so
recommended that this complaint be upheld in Bs favour and that Lloyds should remove the
default from Bs credit file and reinstate the BBL. Lloyds accepted our investigators
recommendation  on the provision that B cleared the arrears that had accrued on the
account and made a payment to Lloyds equal to the payments it should have paid on the
BBL up to this time. Our investigator felt this was a fair way to resolve this matter.
Mr P wasnt happy with the payment arrears requirements and felt that Lloyds should be
instructed to reinstate the BBL with the balance outstanding as it was, including the arrears,
and that an interest only payment option should be applied to the BBL moving forwards. So,
the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 April 2023 as follows:
While I can appreciate how Mr P would be unhappy that B didnt receive the arrears 
notification letters from Lloyds, I dont feel that this absolves B of its responsibility to
have managed and monitored its BBL account and to have made the payments to 
the BBL that were required of it. And so, I do feel that B bears some responsibility for 
whats happened here.
However, while I do feel that B had breached its obligations in regard to the BBL by 
not making the payments that were required of it, I also feel that Lloyds have 
breached their obligations in regard to the BBL by failing to provide notice to B both 
that it had missed payments and also the potential consequences of missing these 
payments. And I feel Lloyds obligations to provide such notices to B are covered in 
the BBL Facility Letter, and specifically the following section:
3. Obligations on your lender
Your lender has agreed in connection with the BBLS to certain obligations in 
respect of their relationship with you, including making certain information 
available to you in relation to your loan.
This requirement to provide arrears information is also backed up by good industry 
practice, including the LSB Standards of Lending Practice for Business Customers.
Additionally, under the terms of the BBL agreement, where B has breached the 
agreement  as it has by not making the required payments  Lloyds are obliged to 
give B reasonable notice and an opportunity to remedy any breach within a 
reasonable period of time before exercising any of its recovery rights arising from 
that breach. And, in this instance, Lloyds havent done this.
So, I do feel that Lloyds have made an error here which has resulted in an unfair 
outcome for B for which corrective action should be instructed  in line with the remit 
of this service to return a complainant to the position they should reasonably be in, 
had the error never occurred.
In their discussions with our investigator, Lloyds suggested reinstating the BBL on 
the condition that B makes a lump sum payment covering all payments that should 
have been made on the BBL by B up to this time.
However, matters are complicated here by Mr Ps confirmation that B hasnt 
recovered financially to a position where its able to make such a large one-off 
payment, as well as a further claim made by Mr P that B was unfairly denied access 
to the Pay As You Grow
(PAYG) payment deferment options on the BBL because of Lloyds unfair defaulting 
of it - which Mr P states would have been utilised by B so that the total amount B 
would have been required to repay up to this point would have been significantly 
reduced.
But it must be noted that while B were benefiting from a PAYG arrangement for the 
time that the payments were missed and while the account was in arrears, that PAYG arrangement ended before Lloyds terminated Bs BBL for non-payment. This 
means that Bs BBL payments had reverted to the full contractual amount before the 
loan agreement was terminated, and it was Bs responsibility to have applied for a 
further PAYG arrangement to be put in place, when the old one ended  which B 
appears not to have done.
In short, things here are very messy, with fault for the present situation lying with both 
sides. And, while I endorse Lloyds attempts to find a reasonable way forwards, I feel 
that a more balanced approach would be fairer here.
Accordingly, my provisional decision is that Lloyds should reinstate Bs BBL on a 
tailored basis with a monthly repayment amount calculated as the sum of two parts  
with the present BBL arrears being kept separate from the remaining amount due on 
the BBL. This would take the following structure:
1. Lloyds should reinstate Bs BBL and calculate the first part of the 
repayment structure on the basis of total that B has left to pay, not including 
any accrued arrears. B should then be allowed to avail of any PAYG options 
that should reasonably remain of it. And Lloyds should instruct the removal of 
any record of the default that it registered with the credit reference agencies.
2. The total amount of the accrued arrears to date  as they presently stand, 
and not in amendment of any potentially missed PAYG options  should then 
be spread equally over the remaining term of the BBL, with interest calculated 
on the arrears amount at the same rate as the BBL.
Assuming that a PAYG deferment option is put in place immediately upon the 
reinstatement of the BBL, this would result in B having to make monthly payments of 
the interest payments as per the PAYG option as well as a further amount relating to 
the arrears repayment  although, if possible, Lloydss should calculate this so that B 
only makes one repayment.
My intention here is to make it more feasible for B to repay its BBL arrears  for 
which I feel it should bear some responsibility, along with Lloyds  rather than B 
being asked to repay a significant arrears lump sum that its presently unable to do. 
And should such an arrangement be put in place, it would be expected, moving 
forwards, that Lloyds would treat any failure by B to meet the arrangement in line with 
their standard arrears processes, including that they would accurately report Bs 
repayment of the arrangement to the credit reference agencies.
Mr P responded to my provisional decision and asked whether Lloyds shouldnt be instructed 
to write off Bs outstanding BBL balance. However, where a borrower has received and had 
the benefit of borrowed funds  as B did in this instance  it will almost always be the 
position of this service that its fair that the borrower should repay the money that it 
borrowed, usually on the agreed terms. And I see no reason why this shouldnt be the case 
in this instance. 
Mr P has also explained how this ongoing situation has caused him a great deal of distress 
which he feels he should be compensated for. But this complaint has been raised in the 
name of B as a limited company. And given that a limited company cant experience 
distress, this service is unable to award compensation for upset or distress to a limited 
company. Additionally, as explained in my provisional decision letter, I feel that B and Lloyds 
both bear some responsibility for what happened here, and it isnt the case that Im finding 
solely against Lloyds in this instance. Lloyds also responded to my provisional decision and explained that they agreed in principle 
with it but that there may be an alternative way forwards that theyre able to offer which may 
be preferable to B, rather than the instructions I provisionally gave. 
Ive considered the alternative proposal put forwards by Lloyds. But I feel that the remit of 
this service  to return a complainant to the position it should have been in, as much as 
reasonably possible, had the incident being complained about never occurred  is better met 
by my provisional instructions in this instance. 
However, this isnt to say that Lloyds shouldnt contact B and put their alternative offer to it. 
Indeed, I encourage Lloyds to do so, in a timely manner. But it is to say  should B formally 
accept this final decision such that it becomes binding on Lloyds  that Lloyds must follow 
the instructions given in this final decision if B declines the alternative offer that they make.
All of which means that I remain satisfied that the outcome as outlined in my provisional 
decision is a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. And so, it follows that my final 
decision is that I uphold this complaint in Bs favour on that basis accordingly. 
Putting things right
Lloyds must reinstate Bs BBL and calculate the first part of the repayment structure on the 
basis of the total that B has left to pay, not including any accrued arrears. B should then be 
allowed to avail of any PAYG options that should reasonably remain of it. And Lloyds must 
instruct the removal of any record of the default that it registered with the credit reference 
agencies.
The total amount of the accrued arrears to date  as they presently stand, and not in 
amendment of any potentially missed PAYG options  should then be spread equally over 
the remaining term of the BBL, with interest calculated on the arrears amount at the same 
rate as the BBL.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman