DRN-3463378
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is that Evolution Insurance Company Limited didnt insist on an Insurance 
Backed Guarantee (IBG) for flat roofing before activating a latent defects insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, and have been summarised by 
our investigator, so I wont repeat them here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded that I have jurisdiction to consider 
the actions of the developer regarding the sale of the policy. This is because those 
actions happened between it and Evolution, and Mr W wasnt involved. So, under our 
rules hes not an eligible complainant. I also include Mr Ws concerns about the due 
diligence carried out here, as this was prior to the policy inception.
Mr W is a beneficiary of the policy. But he isnt party to the rules and technical 
requirements (handbook) which exist between the developer and the warranty 
provider. Evolution has said the handbook had no bearing on the underwriting and 
acceptance of the policy and having reviewed the handbook, I agree.
Evolution has added that the responsibility to follow the handbook and any purchase 
of an IBG is the sole responsibility of the developer. It adds that the absence of an 
IBG has no effect on the acceptance and validity of a policy. Therefore, it says any 
issues concerning the lack of an IBG are between Mr W and the developer.
Mr W says Evolution shouldnt have issued the policy without an IBG. And if it had 
refused to do so, the developer wouldve had to obtain alternative insurance covering 
water ingress from flat rooves. Evolutions policy has an endorsement excluding this 
damage. So, he now doesnt have the level of cover he should be entitled to expect 
from a new home warranty.
Ive thought about what Mr Ws said here. And I can understand his unhappiness at 
not having this cover. But Im satisfied the evidence shows that the underlying 
responsibility for obtaining an IBG is between Mr W and the developer. So, I cant 
fairly conclude Evolution has done anything wrong in adding the endorsement to its 
policy.
I accept Mr W strongly feels that the handbook says obtaining an IBG is a condition 
precedent to liability issuing the policy. And he says he only agreed to the 
endorsement excluding flat roof water ingress under duress from the developer. Ive 
not seen any evidence to link an IBG as a condition precent to Evolution issuing a 
policy. And whilst Ive no reason to doubt what Mr W has said in relation to the 
developers actions, I dont find it affects the merits of his complaint about Evolution 
as it wasnt party to this conversation either. It simply provided a policy and risk it was 
willing to underwrite to the developer.
In conclusion, Ive not seen any evidence that would lead me to require Evolution to 
do anything differently. Im satisfied it provided policy terms to the developer in line 
with its responsibilities and is administering the policy in line with the terms and 
conditions.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Evolution Insurance Company 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman