DRN-2738947
The complaint
Mr K complains about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) for seeking to change the terms under 
which he agreed safe storage with them. He wants Lloyds to honour an earlier promise to 
waive fees for Mr K in perpetuity, and to pay him compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience. 
What happened
In the mid-1990s, Mr K entered into a safe custody agreement with TSB which was later 
subsumed into Lloyds.
He signed an agreement, which showed a section to be completed with an annual fee. This 
was struck through to indicate no fee. 
In 2018, Mr K was visiting a branch of Lloyds when a member of staff advised him that the 
safe custody items were to be relocated to a central location. The staff member asked Mr K 
if he wanted to continue using the service and explained that items would be returned to 
branch for required access. The staff member made no mention of fees applying. 
Mr K agreed to continue using the service. 
In early 2019, he noticed an unauthorised debit had been made to his account for £48.40. 
He identified that this was for the safe custody agreement and contacted Lloyds to complain 
that he should not have been charged.
Lloyds upheld his complaint and refunded the charge. They also paid to him £100 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience.  
Lloyds then wrote to Mr K explaining that it would continue to waive fees on his account in 
perpetuity. 
For a period, Lloyds then continued to charge Mr Ks account approximately 6 monthly, and 
these fees would then be refunded to Mr K, either by Lloyds acting on the promise, or in 
response to Mr K contacting Lloyds. 
In November 2020, Lloyds wrote to Mr K indicating that it could no longer manually refund 
the fees charged to his account. Lloyds gave Mr K the option to remove his items from 
storage, or to continue using the service on the understanding that he would thereafter be 
charged for it, and not refunded. Lloyds offered Mr K £300 compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience. 
Mr K was not happy and contacted us. He feels that Lloyds should be held to its promise to 
continue to provide the service free of charge, indefinitely. He feels that this change will cost 
him more than £4500 over the rest of his life.  
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out their view to the parties. This 
was that Lloyds had acted reasonably in bringing an end to the arrangement. This was 
because the agreement signed allowed for Lloyds to end the arrangement by giving one 
months notice. The investigator felt that the compensation offered was reasonable and in 
line with awards we would make. 
Mr K did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate why Mr K is upset and disappointed by Lloyds change in stance.
Understandably, he relied upon the letter from Lloyds in early 2019 and believed that the 
arrangement of waiving or refunding fees would continue indefinitely. To have this then 
change would be disappointing and potentially upsetting. 
I do, however, have to look at whether Lloyds has done anything wrong in seeking to change 
the terms of the agreement and, if it has, decide what is a reasonable way for it to put things 
right.
I have looked, in particular, at the written agreement Mr K entered into. This gave the bank 
(and successor bank) the option to end the agreement by giving one months notice to the 
consumer. 
It also made clear that it was able to vary the terms of the agreement by giving notice to the 
consumer in a way which the bank considered appropriate.
On this basis, I agree with the investigators view that Lloyds was entitled to draw the fee-
free relationship to an end, or to vary the terms (including the fees) by giving appropriate 
notice to Mr K. 
Lloyds has done this, and has offered Mr K the choice between continuing at a fee, or 
collecting his items. I cannot say that this is unreasonable.
I realise that Mr K thinks that Lloyds gave an undertaking in its letter in early 2019, in which it 
said that the arrangement would continue in perpetuity. This was not, however, part of the 
agreement reached between Mr K and Lloyds, and was said in resolution of a complaint. 
I agree that Lloyds changing this stance would be disappointing and upsetting, but Lloyds 
has made clear that it is not able to sustain the arrangement of manual adjustments further. 
In those circumstances, I cannot require Lloyds to continue the arrangement when it was 
entitled to bring it to an end.  
I think Lloyds was right to offer compensation to Mr K for the distress and inconvenience of it 
breaking its assurance, and I think that the overall sum of £400 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience is reasonable to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Consequently, I agree with the investigators view and do not uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
My final decision
For these reasons, whilst I understand Mr Ks upset, I do not uphold the complaint and do not ask Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman