DRN-4225310
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint
This complaints about a further advance that Miss O applied 
for on the buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage she holds with The 
Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW). There are several strands 
to the complaint, which Ive summarised below, in my own 
words.
TMW initially told Miss O it wouldnt lend for debt 
consolidation at all, which wasnt true.
After she found out it could lend for debt consolidation if 
she applied through a broker, the application she then 
made was refused.
TMW froze access to her mortgage account in the 
mistaken belief she had converted the mortgaged property 
to a house of multiple occupation (HMO). After she 
provided evidence this was not the case, TMW delayed 
unfreezing the account access and failed to communicate 
with her in a timely fashion.
Miss O has raised concerns about the valuation carried out 
on the mortgaged property before she bought it; she thinks 
the valuer missed a defect that has cost her a lot of money to 
put right. This was raised after TMW had issued its final 
response referring Miss O to our service. Accordingly, weve 
set that up as a separate complaint and asked TMW to look 
into it first. 
If Miss O isnt happy with how TMW deals with that separate 
complaint, she can let us know, and well look into it.
For the avoidance of doubt, my decision here does not cover 
the valuation issue in any way; it is confined to three bullet 
points listed above.
What Ive decided  and why
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Miss 
O and TMW. Im also aware that the investigator issued a 
comprehensive response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the 
details here.
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont 
include any information that might result in Miss O being 
identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the 
outcome of the complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, 
Im required to reach my decision on the basis of what I 
consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of 
probabilities. Thats broadly the same test used by the courts 
in civil cases.
It seems to me that the real crux of the complaint is TMWs 
decision not to grant the further advance Miss O wanted. 
I appreciate how disappointing that must have been for her, 
and her sense of frustration will only have been made worse 
by the various shortcoming in what TMW told her (and 
occasionally didnt tell her). Ill deal with the communication 
aspects shortly, but as far as the lending decision is concerned, its important to keep in mind that no one is 
entitled to borrow money.
Even where someone has borrowed before, whether or not 
further borrowing will be granted is a matter for the lenders 
commercial judgement. Its accepted that TMW will lend for 
debt consolidation purposes (as Ive said, Ill deal separately 
with the incorrect information it gave about this initially) but 
that doesnt mean every application for debt consolidation 
lending will be approved. Each application is assessed 
according to its individual circumstances, and by reference to 
TMWs lending criteria, which are commercially sensitive. 
Here, TMW has said that it was concerned about the amount 
of existing debt exposure involved, and took the view that 
Miss Os application didnt meet its appetite for risk. Thats a 
legitimate exercise of commercial judgement, and not one 
that I consider it would be appropriate for me to second-
guess or otherwise interfere with.
TMWs failure in Miss Os case was all about communication 
and customer service. Firstly, it shouldnt have told her that it 
didnt lend at all for debt consolidation purposes. Secondly, 
it was slow and unresponsive in dealing with the query about 
the mortgaged property having allegedly become an HMO, 
after Miss O provided evidence to the contrary. That said, 
I dont find it at all likely that it fabricated a reply to Miss O on 
this point after the event.
None of this changed the overall outcome, which was that 
Miss O was refused a further advance for what Im 
persuaded was legitimate reasons consistent with TMWs 
lending policy. But it took far longer to reach that stage than it 
should have, and Miss O was put to a degree of time, trouble 
and upset by the poor service and communication. That said, 
in all the circumstances, I find TMWs offer of £125 
compensation to be broadly fair.Miss O has told us she never cashed the cheque she 
received, and it will now be out of date in any event. 
Accordingly, a fair outcome to this complaint is for TMW to 
issue a fresh payment to Miss O for the same amount, 
assuming of course that she accepts my final decision.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every 
single point, and I havent. I have, as I said I would, confined 
myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect 
on the outcome. I can see from her submissions how 
important this is to Miss O. Thats a natural reaction, and 
entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation 
as she has been here. This is very much a subjective area; 
everyone reacts to and perceives things differently, 
especially in the moment, when subject to the stresses that 
are inherent in a financial transaction.
But I have a different remit. I have to be objective, and 
impartial, and sometimes that means stepping back from the 
fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, 
reasonable and pragmatic in all the overall circumstances of 
the case. It also means that Im not required to provide 
answers to every specific question that comes up if I dont 
consider doing so will affect the overall outcome.
My final decision
The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc has agreed to pay Miss O 
£125, and I think that is fair in all the circumstances. 
Accordingly, my final decision is that The Mortgage Works 
(UK) Plc should pay Miss O £125 in full and final settlement.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any 
further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept or reject my decision 
before 1 August 2023.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman