DRN-3757201
The complaint
Mr U feels that NewDay Ltd, trading as Amazon MasterCard, has treated him unfairly with 
regard to his credit card account.
What happened
Mr U had a credit card account with NewDay. Mr U has asked NewDay to challenge some 
transactions he made with a Merchant over a period of years. Mr U says that NewDay has 
managed his account badly for a protracted period. So he complained and then later closed 
his account in December 2021. However it later transpired that there was still some dispute 
in relation to transactions on his account after he wanted to close his account.
NewDay answered his complaint and felt it hadnt done much wrong in relation to the actual 
transactions Mr U disputed, but felt it could have done more in relation to the customer 
service it had provided Mr U. So it paid him £40. But Mr U remained unhappy, so he brought 
his complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator felt overall that NewDay should refund one particular transaction, 
specifically £276.09 plus 8% simple interest, that it should remove any associated interest or 
charges, remove any impact to Mr U's credit report relating to this and pay £100 
compensation in light of the trouble and upset caused. NewDay never responded to our 
Investigators assessment of the matter. Mr U says he wants £1000 for the trouble hes had 
in this whole matter. As Mr U remains unhappy, this complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered this case in December and had the Investigator put my thoughts on this case to 
NewDay in early January with a deadline in mid-January. That deadline passed and I asked 
the Investigator to chase NewDay which was done, and a new deadline set. That deadline 
has long since passed and still nothing from NewDay. Ive considered that NewDay have 
had repeated opportunities to respond to this service since September 2022 on the 
Investigators position and has been asked for comments in October 2022 and in January 
2022 with regard to my thoughts on the matter. All of which has been to no avail. 
I have considered the matter afresh in light of NewDays silence and I must bear in mind the 
importance of finality to both parties. I must also consider that it would be unfair on Mr U to 
not bring this matter to a close considering this dispute has been going on for so long just 
because NewDay remain silent on the matter. So having considered the matter in the round I 
think it fair and reasonable to issue this final decision at this point.
Mr U has said in October 2021 that he NewDay should issue compensation of £100 for all 
the inconvenience, stress and disruption caused by such incompetency. In April 2022 Mr U 
said I am also seeking compensation of £1,000 for injuries to feelings, anxiety, time, loss 
and inconvenience caused over a two-year period, all completely avoidable. Im sorry to 
hear Mr U say that hes been suffering injured feelings and anxiety as a result of what 
happened here, and Ive kept it at the front of my mind whilst considering these matters.
Mr U has pointed to a number of transactions which he feels are in dispute. NewDay has 
provided the statements of the account which also show it was closed in December 2021. So 
although there has been a continuing dispute, it is clear that Mr U hasnt been using the 
account for day-to-day use since December 2021. 
Ive considered the statements to see when transactions are recorded (debited) and when 
they on occasion have been reversed (credited). I note Mr Us comments about some of the 
comments made by NewDay about such transactions and it seems clear to me that NewDay 
hasnt been as clear or accurate as it could have been in relation to these matters. I think the 
statements showing the transactions through the account are more persuasive of the true 
standing of his account. So clearly there is merit in some of Mr Us comments about what 
NewDay has said to him in the course of the matter. Although I do note that it seems the 
Merchants comments to NewDay havent been as helpful as they could have been, which 
hasnt helped the dispute between NewDay and Mr U.
The investigator has clearly set out the net position in monetary terms regarding the various 
credits and debits relating to these transactions with this merchant. Ive considered the 
evidence available and have decided that this is an accurate summation of the situation. And 
I note that NewDay has tacitly agreed to this net position in its email of 24 August 2022. And 
I see that although Mr U has made many thoughtful and well explained arguments since he 
received the assessments of the investigator, hes not disputed the net position of his 
account but rather focussed his arguments on the impact on him of whats happened and 
pointed to broader failings of NewDay as he sees them. So, having considered it all, overall 
Im satisfied the correct position is to uphold this complaint and put Mr U back to where he 
should be and thus Newday should refund the £276.09, plus 8% simple interest from the 
date the merchant responded as the Investigator explained.
I shall now turn to Mr Us other arguments. Mr U has pointed to substantial impact on him by 
these events. However I note that in October 2021 he put the figure commensurate with his 
distress and inconvenience at being £100, but by April 2022 he said it was £1000 despite the 
account having closed in December 2021 and without explaining why such a substantial 
increase on the impact on him other than the continued inconvenience of dealing with the 
matter and the frustration alongside that. Mr U has referred to several calls, several emails, 
several chase up, and we've already had numerous exchanges and discussions between 
us. This is the case here as I see it and it is not for this service to award punitive awards in 
situations where more modest awards are appropriate.
Mr U has pointed to an amount which would be commensurate to situations such as serious 
disruption to daily life over a sustained period which would include examples such as having 
to move out of a consumers home, lack of water and heating or similarly distressing events 
caused by businesses over protracted periods. I dont think what Mr U has described here 
approaches this level of distress and inconvenience so Im not persuaded that I should 
award such amounts here.
Mr U has talked about injured feelings and anxiety but given very little support or detail to 
these very important issues. And although Im mindful of these important issues, Im not 
persuaded that his health has been substantially impacted by what happened here, which 
would necessitate such a substantial award for this.
Mr U says that NewDays decision to adjust the account after he settled the account was an 
aggravating factor. However such an adjustment after closing an account is fair if the money is actually owed (or indeed to be credited). And if Mr U hadnt closed the account it seems 
likely the same adjustment would have been made, so Im not persuaded this makes a 
substantial difference or is sufficient to push the award to the higher levels of award.
Mr U has noted that this service hadnt asked NewDay to review what happened here as 
part of our assessment of the matter and said without this, you're missing a key benefit to 
your review and an opportunity to stop others having the same problems. However this 
service is set up to be an informal, efficient dispute resolution service between complainants 
and firms. It is not for me to comment on how NewDay meets its obligations or indeed its 
commercial decisions as to it administers its business broadly. My role is to come to a fair 
resolution on the matter at hand with consideration of what happened in the individual 
disputes specific circumstances informally and fairly.
Having said all of that I do think Mr U makes a valid point about the amount not reflecting the 
inconvenience suffered more generally and I also think asking for clarity to his account is not 
unreasonable in these circumstances particularly given NewDays silence for a protracted 
time. So I think an increased award is required from the £100 originally awarded to better 
reflect the time spent dealing with these matters and the distress resulting from Mr U having 
tried to bring the matter to an end and not being able to due to NewDays failing here. 
Putting things right
Accordingly I direct NewDay to take the following actions within 28 days of being notified of 
Mr Us acceptance of this decision.
Refund the £276.09, plus 8% simple interest from the date the merchant responded 
to when it settles this matter to be paid directly to Mr U 
Mr U paid off the balance on the account so any associated interest or charges 
related to the above refund should also be refunded to Mr U
Remove any negative impact to Mr U's credit report relating to any transactions 
involving this particular merchant
Pay £250 compensation in light of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against NewDay Ltd, trading as 
Amazon MasterCard, and direct it to redress the matter as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman