DRN-4194616
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt change a Direct Debit in line with 
his instructions. He says this caused his account to become overdrawn on more than one 
occasion and caused him a great deal of distress and anxiety over a period of months.
What happened
Mr T held a loan account and a current account with HSBC. He had a Direct Debit in place to 
collect the monthly loan payments from his current account at the beginning of each month. 
Mr T wanted to change the Direct Debit so that the loan payments would be collected from 
an external account instead of his HSBC account. He contacted HSBC in January and it sent 
him an email containing a link to the Direct Debit mandate form.
Mr T says he completed the form and sent it to HSBC by post on 20 January. But, at the 
beginning of February, the loan payment was collected from his HSBC account. Mr T 
contacted HSBC and gave instructions over the phone for the Direct Debit to be updated. He 
also raised a complaint. HSBC sent him another Direct Debit mandate form. Around two 
weeks later, it responded to his complaint by email. It said that the mandate hadnt been 
updated on its systems due to a processing error on its part. It paid Mr T £100 as an apology 
for the inconvenience caused and sent him a further Direct Debit mandate. Mr T says he 
responded to HSBCs email but didnt receive a reply.
He says he also sent two completed mandate forms to HSBC by post in early February. But, 
at the beginning of March, the loan payment was collected from his HSBC account again, 
causing it to become overdrawn. This caused him a great deal of distress and anxiety and 
he had to put money into the account urgently. He contacted HSBC again.
HSBC responded a few days later. It said it hadnt heard anything from Mr T after its 
February email and said it hadnt received the Direct Debit mandate forms. During the email 
contact between Mr T and HSBC in March, Mr T attached a copy of the completed mandate 
form. HSBC said this was the first time it had received it. 
On 8 March, HSBC told Mr T that it would arrange for the future loan payments to be 
collected from his external account and that he would receive confirmation of the change. It 
told him that any Direct Debits which fell due before he received this confirmation would be 
debited from his HSBC account.
At the beginning of April, the loan payment was collected from Mr Ts HSBC account, 
causing it to become overdrawn again. He contacted HSBC to complain. HSBC apologised 
and said there had been a bank error in the processing of the request. It said it would 
contact Mr T again when the Direct Debit was in place. On 12 April, HSBC confirmed that 
the Direct Debit was now set up to collect payments from his external account from May. It 
apologised for the delay in this being actioned and paid Mr T £100 as compensation. 
But Mr T remained very unhappy about the situation and asked this service to look at his 
complaint. He said that HSBC had lied and been abusive towards him by purposely ignoring 
his instructions. He said it had refused to change his Direct Debit for three months in a row, 
continuing to collect payments from his HSBC account and causing it to become overdrawn. 
He said this had forced him to spend time complaining and meant he couldnt close the 
account. He said that HSBC should pay funds into his account to clear the overdraft, clear 
his remaining loan balance of approximately £8,500 and compensate him for the great 
distress and anxiety hed suffered, which had negatively affected his health.
Our Investigator didnt think HSBC needed to clear the loan balance or overdraft. But they 
thought it should pay Mr T £300 in total for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
Mr T agreed to this, believing he would receive a further £300. But, as HSBC had already 
paid £200 to Mr T, our Investigator was actually recommending that it pay a further £100. Mr 
T wasnt happy with that and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here, Ive reached my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have 
happened, in light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Its agreed that Mr T first contacted HSBC in January about changing the Direct Debit. Its 
also agreed that the Direct Debit wasnt changed until mid-April. So, the first payment to be 
collected from the external account was the May payment. HSBC accepts that it made some 
mistakes here. But I dont think its responsible for all the delay or distress which Mr T 
experienced. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that HSBC needed a completed mandate form before it could change the Direct 
Debit. I dont doubt that Mr T posted the form on 20 January. But I find that HSBC hadnt 
received it by the time the February payment was due. So, I dont think it did anything wrong 
by not changing the Direct Debit in time for that payment.
Mr T called HSBC on 2 February. HSBC accepts that its agent made a mistake during this 
call. It says that they followed the wrong process and incorrectly informed Mr T that his 
request could be processed on the basis of his verbal instruction. I think this delayed Mr Ts 
instruction being implemented.
But I think this mistake was corrected in mid-February when HSBC responded to Mr Ts 
complaint. It acknowledged the mistake and paid him £100. Mr T knew at this point that the 
Direct Debit still hadnt been changed, because HSBC sent him another copy of the mandate 
form to complete.
Mr T says he posted two completed forms to HSBC in early February. HSBC says it didnt 
receive them. I have no reason to doubt that Mr T posted the forms. But I dont think HSBC 
received them. HSBC needed the completed mandate form to change the Direct Debit. It 
didnt have the form. So, I dont think it did anything wrong by not changing the Direct Debit 
in time for the March payment. I can understand how frustrating this was for Mr T. But, from 
the evidence available, I cant conclude that HSBC is at fault for the non-receipt of the forms.
HSBC says the next it heard from Mr T was after the March payment had been collected. At 
that stage, Mr T provided a copy of the mandate form by email. I find that this was the first 
time HSBC received the completed form. I think it should have been able to change the 
Direct Debit in time for the April payment, but that didnt happen. HSBC accepted that Mr Ts 
request wasnt actioned in a timely manner. It apologised and paid him a further £100. Im satisfied that Mr Ts instructions have now been implemented and the May payment was 
collected from his other account. But Mr T doesnt think HSBC has done enough to 
acknowledge the impact of its mistakes. He says it had no intention of complying with his 
instructions and that it purposely ignored his requests. HSBC says that processing errors 
caused a delay in actioning Mr Ts request. It says these were human errors and not 
deliberate attempts to ignore his instruction. I know Mr T feels very strongly about this, but I 
havent seen anything which suggests HSBC deliberately ignored his instructions or 
intended to cause him any distress. 
There was a series of unfortunate incidents, some of which were HSBCs fault and some of 
which werent. HSBC couldnt act without the completed forms. But I think its 
communications with Mr T could have been clearer and it accepts that it caused delay. Mr T 
suffered distress and some inconvenience as a result and I think HSBC needs to pay him 
some compensation to reflect that. 
I dont find that Mr T incurred any costs in relation to his account becoming overdrawn, so I 
dont think HSBC needs to do anything about that. And Im not going to ask it to pay off his 
loan as I dont find that the loan account was impacted in any way.
Putting things right
I think a total of £300 would be a fair amount of compensation here. HSBC has already paid 
£200 to Mr T (£100 in February and £100 in April). So, Im going to ask it to pay him a further 
£100 to bring the total compensation for the complaint to £300. I understand that HSBC may 
have already paid this additional £100 following our Investigators view, in which case it 
wont need to do any more to comply with my award.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already done so, HSBC UK Bank 
Plc should pay a further £100 to Mr T, to bring the total compensation for this complaint to 
£300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman