DRN-3660854
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lowell Portfolio I Ltd (Lowell) was unfairly chasing him for debts he
doesnt believe were his.
This complaint relates to three different accounts which for the purpose of this decision I will
refer to as S, L and T.
What happened
I issued my provisional findings on this case on 8 August 2022. I planned to uphold Mr Fs 
complaint as the investigator had but wanted to award different redress. So, I wanted to give 
both parties the chance to respond with anything additional they wanted me t consider 
before I reached my final decision. Im now in a position to make my decision.
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision.
What happened
Across 2018 Lowell purchased accounts S, L and T from the original lenders. These
accounts were all opened in Mr Fs name at address it says were linked to him. On
purchasing the accounts Lowell issued Notice of Assignment (NOA) letters explaining 
it now owned the accounts and payments should be made to it going forward. It 
made numerous efforts to contact Mr F but was unable to reach him.
On 13 June 2019 Lowell received a letter from Mr F saying he was not aware of 
these accounts and required some evidence to show that he owed money on them. 
His letter also advised Lowell that he had various physical and mental disabilities and 
was vulnerable. He also explained he had a limited income and was reliant on 
benefits.
Lowell continued to try to reach Mr F by phone, making six calls out to him between 
13 June 2019 and 13 August 2019. None of the calls connected.
On 13 August 2019 Lowell wrote to Mr F saying it would refer back to the original 
lenders for the evidence he required. The letter notes that Mr F has mentioned his 
current circumstances in his letter of 13 June 2019.
In September and October 2019 Lowell wrote to Mr F providing him with information 
about the accounts to help him identify them.
On 9 October 2019 Lowell wrote to Mr F telling him it had placed the accounts on 
hold for 30 days and asking him to update it about his circumstances, by calling or 
emailing it. Mr F didnt respond. Lowell wrote to him again on 7 November 2019 
telling him the 30-day hold had ended and again asked for an update on his 
circumstances. Mr F didnt respond to this either.
After this Lowell wrote to Mr F asking for him to contact it to set up payment plans 
seven times; twice in February 2020, twice in March 2020, twice in August 2020 and 
once in December 2020.
Between 20 December 2019 and 11 March 2020 Lowell made four attempts to 
contact Mr F by phone, one call was connected but hung up, the others didnt 
connect.
In November 2020 T became statute barred and so Lowell decided to stop chasing 
Mr F for payment of this account and closed it writing off the balance of 
approximately £6,400.
In December 2020 L became statute barred and so Lowell decided to stop chasing 
Mr F for payment of this account and closed it writing off the balance of 
approximately £7,900.
Lowell referred account S to solicitors to review in January 2021, and legal fees were 
added to the account in April 2021.
At this point Mr F contacted the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB), who in turn contacted 
Lowell. In June 2021 S was returned to Lowell from the solicitors and legal action 
was stopped. Mr F raised a complaint saying:
Lowell hadnt proved any of the debts were his, and so had been chasing him 
without carrying out any due diligence.
S was showing as defaulted on 7 November 2018 but should have been 
defaulted much earlier like L and T were  making it statute barred also.
Lowell upheld Mr Fs complaint in part. To summarise, it explained it had carried out 
various checks and traces on the accounts and it was satisfied the accounts 
genuinely belonged to Mr F and that it had acted fairly in contacting him to pay them. 
But it agreed with him that S should have been defaulted by the original lender back 
in 2015 and had that been done the account would have been statute barred along 
with the others. To put things right Lowell removed the default from Mr Fs credit file 
and closed the account writing off approximately £4100.
Mr F remained unhappy with Lowells response and so brought his complaint to this 
service. When he did, he told us he was also unhappy that Lowell had ignored him 
when hed advised it of his disabilities and vulnerability.
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Fs complaint. In summary he said:
The checks Lowell had carried out were sufficient for it to be able to pursue Mr F 
for the moneys owed on accounts S, T and L. And Lowell had not misled Mr F 
about the enforceability of the accounts
If Mr F thought the defaults applied in 2015 by L and T had been so incorrectly, 
he would need to take that up with the original lenders as they applied the 
defaults. (Although these should no longer be showing on M Fs credit file as 
more than six years has passed since they were applied.)
Lowell had acted fairly when removing the default relating to S and writing the
account balance off, in recognition of the original lenders mistake of defaulting 
the account later than it should have.
Lowell should have taken more care to communicate with Mr f once he advised it 
of his vulnerabilities and so to put things right here it should pay Mr F £150.Lowell said although Mr F hadnt raised the point about ignoring his vulnerabilities in 
his original complaint, it agreed that we could look at this under the same complaint 
reference and agreed to the investigators findings.
Mr F disagreed he raised multiple points including, but not limited to:
The addresses he has been linked to arent all correct some are by association 
only. He provided GPS data from his phone to show he was out of the country 
during the time he was linked to them.
He didnt agree that Lowell had proved the accounts were his and felt it didnt 
matter that it had now written them off. As he felt they werent his in the first place 
hed like £19,000 to compensate him for Lowells persistent hounding over two 
years.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the 
information provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. Mr F and Lowell have 
sent this service a lot of information for me to consider during the course of this 
complaint. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in this decision its not 
because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the 
complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every 
question raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I appreciate Mr F has told us that he suffers from memory loss and has no 
recollection of the accounts Lowell was asking him to pay, but that doesnt 
automatically mean they werent genuine or that Lowell wasnt entitled to contact him 
about them.
Account T was opened in 2008, S opened in 2010 and L opened in 2011. Lowell 
wasnt able to provide copies of the original credit agreements that related to these 
accounts, but I dont think thats unreasonable due to the passage of time since they 
were opened.
Lowell has however, provided details of when Mr F opened the accounts and 
transactions that were made on them. It has also been able to show how it traced Mr 
F through address searches carried out by external tracing companies using the 
information provided about Mr F by the original lenders. The original lender of 
account T also provided Lowell with the email address that was linked to the account 
when it was opened, and Lowell was able to reach Mr F when emailing to it. Based 
on this, I think Lowell has done enough to show it reached the correct person and 
that the accounts genuinely did belong to Mr F, even if he is unable to remember 
them.
I have considered what Mr F has said about him living in another country at the time 
some of the address traces showed him to be in the UK. He has provided some GPS 
data from a phone showing its location as being in that country at different times between 2016 and 2022. But I dont think that shows Mr F isnt responsible for the 
accounts and overall, Im satisfied Lowell was entitled to contact Mr F to ask for 
payment on these accounts, regardless of where he was living at the time.
Ive also considered what Mr F has said about Lowell hounding him for payment over 
a two-year period and I dont agree that has been the case. From the evidence Ive 
seen communication from Lowell has been sporadic  there has been months that 
have passed with no contact at all and then a flurry of contact in short waves, none of 
which I would consider to be excessive in the circumstances. So, Im not intending to 
uphold this aspect of Mr Fs complaint.
When Mr F notified Lowell of his disabilities and vulnerabilities it took two months to 
write back to him and when it did it said:
Thank you for your recent letter. We apologise for the delay in responding.
You write that you have no knowledge of these accounts, ask for evidence 
and mention your current circumstances.
This was the only acknowledgement that Mr F had explained his circumstances to 
Lowell, it didnt ask if Mr F would like any adjustments to help him deal with things. 
Lowell did place a 30 day hold on his accounts and moved them to a specialist 
support team which are both things, Id expect it to do but it didnt advise Mr F of 
either of these things.
Lowell did ask for an update on Mr Fs circumstances in October 2019, but this was a 
very generic letter saying his accounts were on hold, and I dont think it was clear 
that this related to Mr Fs personal circumstances. So, I can understand why Mr F felt 
that his notification of his disabilities and vulnerabilities had been ignored and I 
appreciate that this would have caused him to feel upset and worried.
However, when considering compensation, I have taken into account that Lowell did 
act on the information it had received and transferred the complaint to its specialist 
support team and placed the account on hold for 30 days, while it sought to gain 
further information from Mr F about the support he required. But unfortunately, its 
didnt make it clear thats what it was doing and so when considering the impact this 
had on Mr F I have looked at the worry and concern that was caused to him in 
thinking his vulnerabilities and disabilities hadnt been taken into account as opposed 
to Lowell not acting on the information, he had provided to it. Because of this I think 
Lowell should pay Mr F £250 for the upset it has caused.
I know that Mr F believes Lowell should pay much more than this, but I have taken 
into account all of the circumstances here, including Mr F not always engaging with 
Lowell. As well as Lowells decision to write off the balance all three of the accounts it 
was seeking payment for, which was approximately £18,400. Given this Im satisfied 
the award I am recommending is appropriate in the circumstances.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold Mr Fs complaint. I intend to direct Lowell Portfolio I Ltd to put 
things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Lowell responded accepting my findings.Mr F also responded; he didnt agree with my findings, Ive summarised, in my own words, 
his main points below:
Because of his health issues he does not remember the accounts and he doesnt 
agree that Lowell showed they belonged to him.
The email address Lowell used to contact him was not active when the accounts 
were opened  he provided evidence by way of an online chat where the email 
provider says the account has been active for ten years.
He stopped communicating with them because of his health issues, but he feels that 
Lowell sent more letters than they are claiming they did. And this to him felt like 
hounding  and he says unless I am a specialist psychologist, I cannot judge how 
this felt.
The debts were unenforceable and so Lowell should not have been pursuing him for 
them.  
He would now like £25,000 in damages to reflect the seriousness of the fraud Lowell 
have committed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about Mr Fs points and reconsidering all of the evidence that has been 
provided by both parties, I have to tell Mr F that I wont be changing my findings from those 
of my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
I understand that Mr Fs health issues affect his ability to remember things and he has my 
greatest sympathy as this must make it very difficult to deal with everyday matters and cause 
him great frustration. But just because he isnt able to remember the accounts it doesnt 
mean that he didnt take them out. As I explained in my provisional findings above, although 
Lowell was not able to provide the original credit agreements it was able to provide details of 
the accounts, including when they were opened and transactions that had been made on 
them. Alongside this it was able to show how it had traced Mr F using an external company. 
So, Im satisfied it did enough to entitle it to make contact with Mr F and show the accounts 
were, more likely than not, to have been his.
Mr F says the email address provided to Lowell by T did not exist when the account was 
opened in 2008 and that T only came to have that because he was disputing the debt, later 
on. But Lowell have shown that T provided that information to it when it purchased the 
account from them in January 2018. It then used the information to contact Mr F, so T could 
only have come by the email address if Mr F provided it to them at some point. Mr F says it 
was when he contacted T to dispute the debt, but he didnt start disputing the debts until 
after Lowell contacted him to try to arrange payments of them. So, Im satisfied that at some 
point Mr F provided his email address to T and it later gave the details to Lowell when it sold 
the account on. Im also satisfied that Lowell acted reasonably when using it to contact Mr F. 
And I think this further supports that T was his account.
Mr F feels that as the debts were unenforceable, he should not have been chased for them. 
My role here is not to decide the enforceability of the debts, that is the role of the courts, but 
to say if Lowell acted fairly in trying to arrange a payment plan for them and I think it did. I 
say that because a debt being statute barred does not automatically mean its no longer 
owed. It merely means it would not be enforceable in a court of law. And while business may 
choose not to pursue a debt, once it is statute barred, it doesnt have to.
I fully understand why Mr F felt he could no longer communicate with Lowell, because of the stress the situation was causing him. And I appreciate that I dont know how it feels to suffer 
with the health issues that Mr F does. But my role is to decide if I think Lowell acted 
reasonably in the circumstances. I have taken into account what it knew about Mr Fs 
vulnerabilities and disabilities, and when it knew that information. And as I explained in my 
provisional findings, I think it could have done more to acknowledge his situation and explain 
what it could do to assist. But taking into account the things it did do such as moving his 
accounts to its specialist support team and placing a hold on them and writing off all of the 
debts I still think £250 is a reasonable amount in the circumstances.
I know Mr F will be disappointed with this as he feels very strongly about it and has 
expressed that he would like £25,000 in damages. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Lowell  can do for him.
Putting things right
If Mr F accepts this decision Lowell should pay him £250 for the upset, it has caused. It is 
entitled to deduct from this any payment it may have already made.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint about 
Lowell Portfolio I Ltd. I now require Lowell to pay Mr F the compensation as described in the 
putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman