DRN-2901398
The complaint
Mr W complains about Sanderson Drake Limiteds (SDL) handling of his claim for 
irresponsible lending. Mr W wants SDL to pay compensation for the calls hes had to make 
and for the distress caused to him. 
  
What happened
Mr W instructed SDL to pursue a claim for irresponsible lending by Lender W. Mr W says a 
number of issues occurred during the handling of his claim which led him to complain. He 
says SDL didnt give him updates and didnt call him at the times agreed. He says they didnt 
comply with his request for documents and gave him misleading information. And, he says 
they didnt verify his details during a call.   
SDL responded and said they had provided Mr W with updates and had also provided him 
with the forms he needed to complete for them to comply with his General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) request. And, while SDL understood Mr W had issues completing the 
form he didnt contact them until some time later to discuss this. They also said Mr W had 
been provided with their complaints handling procedure. And they didnt uphold the part of 
his complaint relating to their acceptance of the offer from Lender W. In relation to Mr Ws 
complaint about a data protection breach during a phone call, SDL said there hadnt been 
any breach. The final part of the complaint related to phone calls and call back requests. 
SDL acknowledged there had been an error with their phone lines which meant Mr W was 
left in a holding queue. They apologised and offered compensation of £10. SDL said there 
had been a breakdown in relationship so further offered to release Mr W from the contract 
with them with no fee payable.   
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Mr W and SDL on 4 June 2021. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Phone calls and response to enquiries 
Mr W says he requested numerous call backs and at specified times, but his 
requests were ignored. I can see Mr W emails SDL at 2.59pm on 16 December and 
notes his mobile number for SDL to contact him on if they have any issues. He also 
notes his availability as being between 12.00pm to 1.00pm weekdays and after 
5.30pm. Mr W asks for a call at 5.40pm that day or alternatively, if the office is 
closed, then a call at 12.15pm the following day. SDL respond the same day but I 
cant see they reply to Mr Ws request for a phone call. Mr W replies and asks for a 
response to his request for a phone call. SDL reply on the same day and say they 
have attempted to contact Mr W by phone but the number isnt in use. They ask for 
an updated phone number. 
Mr W replies the same day and asks SDL to confirm what number they called and 
the time they called. SDL reply and note the number they called and the time they 
called as 4.54pm. The number they note isnt the same mobile number noted by Mr 
W in his earlier email. Mr W replies and asks why SDL tried to call him at 4.54pm 
when his previous email set out his availability. He also asks why SDL have tried to 
call him on his old mobile number. Mr W asks for a call on the mobile number he has 
provided at 5.45pm. SDL reply to say they dont have a telephone appointment 
system but they will try and call him at or around 5.45pm. They say theyve noticed 
Mr W tried to call them twice that day but both calls had a connection issue which 
meant Mr W was unable to hear them. They apologise for this. SDL send another 
email, this is at 6.16pm and apologise for the delay  the member of staff says they 
were on a call to another customer. They say they have tried to call Mr W but it went 
to voicemail. They ask Mr W to call them back as they are open until 7.00pm. 
Mr W replies at 7.27pm and asks why SDL havent responded to his question about 
them using an old number to call him and also calling him outside his available times. 
He says he called SDL at 6.57pm and was on hold for 14 minutes. He says it was 
while he was on hold that he read their email about the office closing at 7.00pm. He 
asks why theres no automated message saying the office is closed as this led to him 
being on hold while the office was closed. Mr W asks for a phone call between 
12.00pm to 12.30pm the following day. Mr W says he received a phone call from 
SDL at 12.56pm. Mr W says during this call he made a request for the claim handler 
to call him after 5.30pm and he was told they would. Mr W complained to SDL two 
days later and part of his complaint says he hasnt received a return call from the 
claim handler. 
I can see from a letter of authority form completed by Mr W, he notes a mobile 
number  this is the number which SDL used to contact him at 4.54pm. I can see 
however that, at 2.59pm Mr W did let SDL know what mobile number to contact him 
on. It might well be the case that SDL have taken the number noted on the letter of 
authority and recorded this on their system and then used this number to contact 
him. However, the information shows Mr W did make SDL aware of the number to 
call him on and this wasnt used. So, I think SDL have made an error here. While this 
is the case, I cant see there has been an impact. Mr W asks for the claim handler to 
call him to go over a few points. While a call doesnt then take place at the time Mr W 
asks due to SDL using the incorrect number, I can see SDL do provide a detailed 
response on the same day to the points hes raised.   
I can see however there have been other occasions where Mr Ws calls havent been 
returned. I can see SDL email Mr W in January 2020 and apologise for not contacting 
him at the agreed time even though an advisor said they would. They also note they 
have on more than one occasion agreed to contact Mr W but havent. And they 
apologise for this. SDL agree to contact Mr W in line with his request. A few days 
later Mr W emails to say SDL have again failed to contact him at the agreed time and 
he asks them to contact him the following day between a specified time. SDL 
respond and apologise for not contacting Mr W again and agree to call him at the 
requested time the following day. Mr W emails the following day to say he didnt 
receive a call at the agreed time. 
Theres also been occasions where Mr W has had to chase for responses to his 
enquiries. For example, hes had to chase for an answer when querying why SDL 
called him on an old number and outside his available hours. Hes also had to chase 
for an answer to his query about whether another professional person other than a 
solicitor is able to certify his documents. Having not received a response to these 
queries, this formed part of Mr Ws complaint to SDL.  
Taking this all into account, I think there have been errors here. SDL acknowledge Mr 
W was left waiting on a call after their offices had closed and I think their offer of £10 
to cover Mr Ws phone call is fair and reasonable for that part of the complaint. There are further errors which I have identified so I think SDL do need to take further steps 
to put things right.     
Complaints handling 
I can see Mr W raises a complaint and then chases after he doesnt receive a 
response within four weeks. Mr W refers to SDLs complaints handling policy which 
says they will acknowledge a complaint within five working days and then respond 
within four weeks or send a holding response. I cant see this was sent to Mr W 
within four weeks so he chases and a response is then sent the following day. While, 
strictly, SDL havent followed their complaints process in acknowledging Mr Ws 
complaint and not providing a response within four weeks, I dont think they have 
acted unreasonably. I say this for two reasons. 
Firstly, SDLs complaints policy says they will send a final response within eight 
weeks of receiving a complaint  and they have done this. This is also in line with the 
timeframe we would expect. Secondly, complaint handling isnt a regulated or other 
covered activity. So as a general rule, and in line with the law, if the complaint is 
solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to look into things. Where 
complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, then we can take into 
account complaint handling when looking at the overall customer experience. In this 
case, I cant say the issues which Mr W raises about the complaints handling are an 
extension of the issues which relate to regulated activities, so I cant look into the 
complaint handling part of the complaint.      
  
Updates
Mr W says his request for updates were ignored. In December 2019, Mr W asks for 
an update and also raises a number of other queries. SDL respond the same day but 
I cant see they provide an update on the claim. Mr W emails back and chases an 
update. Theres further exchanges in emails the same day and SDL do then provide 
an update on his claim. They say theyre waiting an assessment from Lender W as to 
the value of the claim. SDL then email Mr W two days later and explain his claim has 
been assessed and it has been partially accepted. They explain payments will only 
be made once all claims against Lender W have been received and assessed. They 
say they expect payments to be made by the end of January 2020. They provide a 
breakdown of Mr Ws loan history. Mr W replies and provides his bank details for his 
refund from Lender W to be paid. So, in relation to Mr Ws claim, I think SDL have 
kept him updated so I dont uphold this part of the complaint.  
Misleading information
Mr W says he was told by a member of staff at SDL that he had the right to reject any 
offer from Lender W. He says, during a later call, he was told he couldnt reject the 
offer. SDL say they are aware Mr W was told by a member of staff that he would 
have the right to reject the offer received from Lender W. They say, in normal 
circumstances this would be correct, however as the payment was going to be made 
by administrators for Lender W and Mr W had provided his bank details in 
acceptance, the offer had been accepted and the calculations were being processed. 
I can see weve asked for this call but neither of the parties have been able to provide 
it. I dont think this prevents me from determining this part of the complaint as Ive 
listened to a call between Mr W and SDL where they accept Mr W was told by a 
member of staff that he could reject the offer. SDL say training will be provided to that member of staff but they say that doesnt change the fact that Mr W had already 
accepted the offer prior to that phone call. So, he couldnt now reject the offer as the 
administrators dont allow a further review. 
I think there has been an error here in that the member of staff had given incorrect 
information but I dont think there has been any impact here. Mr W had already 
accepted the offer by providing his bank details so I cant say Mr W made his 
decision to accept the offer based on the incorrect information given by the member 
of staff. So, while I agree an error has been made, I think the steps suggested by 
SDL to provide feedback is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I wont be 
asking them to take any further steps. 
 
GDPR request 
I can see Mr W and SDL exchange correspondence about his GDPR request. That 
request has been resolved by SDL. There was initially issues which led to Mr W 
raising queries. For example, Mr W makes a GDPR request and SDL respond the 
same day and attach the form he needs to complete. Mr W emails back the same 
day enclosing some documents and SDL respond and ask Mr W to refer to the 
documentation they sent as the information he has provided wouldnt be accepted as 
they arent certified originals. Mr W replies and asks for confirmation on what 
documents arent certified originals. SDL reply and say they require certified originals 
and a wet signed document for GDPR requests. There is then further discussion 
around who is able to certify the documents and I can see Mr W is concerned about 
having to chase for clarity on whether a solicitor, or other professional person, is able 
to certify the documents. And, Ive addressed this part above. Aside from this, I dont 
think SDL have been unreasonable in how they handled Mr Ws GDPR request.   
Staff behaviour 
Mr W says, on a number of occasions when he called SDL, staff were rude and 
hostile towards him. Ive listened to the phone calls but I dont think staff were being 
rude or hostile. There is a call during which Mr W says to the call handler he feels 
theyre being patronising. The call handler is explaining the terms of the offer set out 
in SDLs final response letter but I havent noted any point during that call where I 
think the call handler was being patronising. So, I dont uphold this part of the 
complaint.  
Data breach
Mr W says, on one occasion when he called SDL, he wasnt asked questions for data 
security purposes to identify him. When he questioned this, he says he was told SDL 
staff dont need to carry out checks if a customer calls in within one hour of a 
previous call. I can see SDL email Mr W and say, at the start of the call, Mr W 
confirms his name and gives the name of the agent he had spoken to moments 
before. 
SDL say, as the call handler was aware of those colleagues, and also having noted 
that Mr W was calling from the confirmed number on file, no data breach had 
occurred. They also say, no data breach has occurred as sensitive information hasnt 
been shared with a third party. 
Ive listened to this call and, at the start of the call, Mr W does give his name and also 
refers to a conversation he had with other staff at SDL. The conversation continues 
with Mr W and the call handler discussing his GDPR request form. At the end of the 
call, Mr W raises a concern about the call handler not asking any data security questions at the start. The call handler says he doesnt need to as Mr W called back 
within one hour from the previous call. The call handler does then go on to say that 
he was aware it was Mr W as he called in on the number they have on file. 
Mr W calls again and speaks with another call handler. The call handler explains she 
needs to ask some data security questions and Mr W asks whether he has to do this. 
The call handler says she needs to do this otherwise she cant discuss details of the 
claim. And, when Mr W asks whether they do this for all calls, she confirms they do. 
If Mr W does feel there has been a data breach here then he can refer the matter to 
the Information Commissioners Office. My role is to consider the service provided. Mr 
W is told by a call handler that he doesnt need to carry out data security checks as 
Mr W called back within an hour of a previous conversation. Mr W is then given 
conflicting information during a later call when the call handler says data security 
checks are carried out on all calls. I havent been provided with any policy which 
shows what SDLs data security process is, but I think the information given to Mr W 
did cause uncertainty. So, I uphold this part of Mr Ws complaint.  
Acceptance of SDLs offer to resolve complaint   
Mr W says he felt SDL were bullying him into accepting their offer to resolve his 
complaint. He says he asked for an extension to the timeframe for acceptance of the 
offer to enable him to listen to call recordings but his request was refused. He says 
SDL told him if he didnt accept the offer they would look to recover their costs from 
him for breach of the contract. 
Ive looked at email exchanges between Mr W and SDL in January 2020 during 
which they discuss SDLs offer. There is a concern raised by Mr W about why SDL 
are seeking his agreement to the offer when it hasnt yet been agreed by a director at 
SDL. I understand Mr Ws point here but I dont think SDL have acted unreasonably. I 
can understand Mr Ws reasons for wanting the director to agree the offer before he 
gives his decision but I cant say its unreasonable either for SDL to want Mr Ws 
agreement first. 
Ive also looked at the email exchanges and listened to the phone calls and I cant 
say SDL have tried to bully Mr W into accepting the offer. They do set a timeframe for 
acceptance and theres a number of exchanges over a period of a few days. I can 
see SDL do say to Mr W they consider his comments towards members of staff 
amount to a breach of the contract. I can see from the Conditional Fee Agreement 
signed by Mr W, Section.8 does refer to cancellation fees being payable if SDL 
terminate the agreement on the basis of abuse or malicious communication towards 
employees. So, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for SDL to refer to this as 
they felt Mr W had acted in a way which was in breach of the contract. And I dont 
think this is an attempt at bullying Mr W into accepting the offer.   
In summary, there are areas where I think SDL have made errors. They have made 
an offer for compensation. I think its right they compensate Mr W but I dont think 
£10 is fair and reasonable here. 
Mr Ws emails show he was becoming increasingly frustrated at having to chase for 
answers to his enquiries and about occasions when his calls werent returned despite 
SDL agreeing to call him. Mr W was also left frustrated when given conflicting 
information about security questions SDL ask at the start of calls with customers. Taking this all into account, I think £50 compensation is fair and reasonable  this 
sum includes the £10 already offered by SDL.     
So, subject to any further comments from Mr W or SDL, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold this complaint and require SDL to pay compensation of £50 to Mr W. 
Following my provisional decision, Mr W responded to say he wasnt given any option apart 
from accepting the offer. And, he was told he would be liable for fees if he doesnt accept the 
offer. Mr W also says he wasnt aware the offer had been made by administrators. Mr W 
says he could have made a complaint directly to the administrators himself and he says it 
appears SDL do nothing more than a cut and paste email on behalf of customers. Mr W 
says he feels £75 compensation would be reasonable. 
SDL have replied and say they feel the £10 offered for the issue which led to Mr W 
remaining on the phone line beyond 7.00pm is reasonable. They say Mr W remained on the 
phone line for 11 minutes longer than he ought to have been but their phone service does 
provide a message which lets customers know their office closes at 7.00pm. They accept 
though there was an error in that the phone line did allow customers to stay on the phone 
even after the office is closed. They say the offer of £10, which they say is reasonable, was 
rejected by Mr W. SDL also say they offered to terminate Mr Ws contract without charge but 
he refused. SDL say they aim to respond to all emails within three working days. And, 
request for call backs the same day arent always possible. SDL say they acted as fairly as 
they could in attempting to respond promptly. SDL ask for clarity on when confirmation has 
been given to Mr W that he would receive a call back but didnt within a reasonable amount 
of time. 
SDL say they did acknowledge Mr Ws complaint within five working days and then provided 
an update within four weeks. SDL have provided an email which shows they gave Mr W an 
update on the same day they responded to the complaints. SDL say there has been no data 
breach as Mr W spoke with the same department prior to the first call disconnecting. They 
say, if a customer speaks to one department and then calls in shortly after and speaks with a 
separate department, then security questions will be asked. They say that wasnt the case 
here and the Compliance department were satisfied they were speaking with Mr W again 
when he called back and provided details of the previous call. SDL dont believe 
compensation should be payable here. 
SDL say they went above their contractual terms by allowing Mr Ws compensation to be 
received before requiring payment. And, they say they were within their rights to cancel Mr 
Ws contract and issue a cancellation fee  which they say wouldve been higher than the 
success fee they took. But they say they decided against this and continued with the claim. 
SDL also say the invoice for their fee was overdue but they didnt charge an arrears fee so 
they exceeded their obligations.      
SDL have asked for a summary of the errors I have found so they have an opportunity to 
respond to each point. SDL say they have suffered harassment from Mr W and feel it would 
be inappropriate to compensate him. They say they have already taken steps above and 
beyond what is expected and not charged Mr W late charges and fees which they could 
have. They say the cost in processing the claim has been several hundred pounds yet they 
have only received £18.16 for their fee. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.
In relation to Mr Ws comments, I understand why hes concerned about the advice he says 
he received from SDL about the offer. I dont think the information given by SDL is 
unreasonable though as the offer was made by administrators for the lender  and not 
directly by the lender. This would mean that any offer was subject to potential reductions as 
it would be based entirely on how much the administrators were able to recover from selling 
the lender companys assets. I don't think there was much room to compromise on this. And 
this is supported by an email SDL sent to Mr W saying As the lender is in administration, we 
expect the value to be a small proportion of the amount expected In relation to Mr Ws 
comment that he wasnt advised about the offer being from the administrators, I can see 
SDL have made reference to the administrators in various emails to Mr W. In one email they 
say All [Lender W] cases are updated with the administrators on a regular basis And, I 
can see the offer letter sent to Mr W makes it clear the claim has been assessed by the 
administrators  and the offer has also been made by them. 
I understand Mr Ws point about SDL saying he could be liable for costs if he doesnt accept 
the offer. SDLs terms and conditions do make provision for fees to be claimed if they deem 
a claim successful. And, its not unreasonable for them to consider the administrators 
acceptance of the claim and the resulting offer to mean Mr Ws claim has been successful. 
So, I dont think it was unfair for SDL to say any rejection of the offer could lead to them 
charging Mr W fees.
In relation to Mr Ws point that he couldve raised a complaint directly with the administrators, 
I can see SDL have set out this option in their conditional fee agreement. It says, You are 
able to complain directly to your lender with the ability to refer your claim to the Financial 
Ombudsman Serviceat no cost So, Im satisfied Mr W was informed about the option of 
being able to pursue his complaint directly. I understand Mr Ws concern about what he feels 
is only a limited amount of work being carried out by SDL. I can see SDL have charged      
Mr W fees of £18.16. SDL charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the 
amount of work they actually undertook. This means that any work done on any 
unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a claim was successful, SDLs fee may 
be more or less than the value of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all 
parties in this type of agreement. Just because SDLs fee might be higher or lower than the 
value of the work they have done for Mr W, it doesnt make their fee unjustified.
 
I note SDLs points about the phone line and I agree with their view about the £10 being 
reasonable to reflect any impact on Mr W for this part of the complaint. 
In response to SDLs request for clarity on the occasions when Mr Ws calls werent returned 
despite agreeing a time, I can see SDL email Mr W on 10 January 2020 at 1.42pm to say 
apologies we did not contact you at the agreed time and can see from this end you did 
speak with our advisor who did confirm they could contact you back so apologise for this. I 
can also see we have agreed to contact you on more than once [sic] occasions and have not 
so [sic] again I apologise for this. SDL then say they will look to contact Mr W in line with his 
request at the agreed time. Mr W then emails on 14 January to say he hasnt been contacted 
as agreed. SDL respond on the same day at 3.44pm and say apologise [sic] we did not 
contact you as agreed again this is not the level of service we normally look to provide. I will 
ensure that you will be contacted tomorrow between 12-2 as agreed. 
Mr W then emails the following day at 4.55pm to say he hasnt received a call at the agreed 
time. So, taking this into account, I can see there have been occasions where SDL havent 
called Mr W when they agreed to. I do acknowledge SDLs point about updates  and I agree they have kept Mr W updated. But this part of the complaint doesnt specifically relate 
to updates, it relates to SDL not contacting Mr W at the times they agreed. I do understand 
SDLs point that call backs cant always be made the same day. But, in this case, SDL have 
agreed to call Mr W at specified times set out in their emails but then failed to contact him. I 
also cant see that SDL have emailed Mr W before the agreed call time and explained they 
wont be able to call. So, this wouldve left Mr W expecting a call. And, he has then been left 
frustrated at not receiving a call as agreed. 
I have noted SDLs comments about the complaints process, and I dont uphold this part of 
the complaint as set out in my reasoning in the provisional decision. In relation to the 
complaint about the data breach, I agree with SDLs point that no sensitive or confidential 
information was disclosed to a third party as it was Mr W who called back in after the first call 
got disconnected. However, Mr W is then told why no security questions were asked and, 
while I dont think the explanation given to him is unreasonable, he is then given 
contradictory information when he later spoke with another member of staff. At this point hes 
told security questions are asked at the start of all calls. This did cause confusion for Mr W 
as he later complains about the inconsistent information he was given.  
I accept SDL have decided against applying certain charges such as a cancellation fee and 
also a late payment fee. I agree the conditional fee agreement allows SDL to charge such 
fees but SDL have themselves decided against charging these fees. I note SDL say they 
decided against taking the cancellation route and instead charged a success fee to avoid 
financial distress to Mr W. I do understand SDLs intentions here were to act in a manner 
which they feel best serves Mr Ws interests but I dont think its fair to treat this as part of the 
action taken to resolve the complaint. In their complaint response, SDL offer £10 
compensation and also to release Mr W from the contract with no fee payable. So, while 
there is reference to SDL offering to avoid the cancellation route, this doesnt materialise as 
Mr W rejects the offer. SDL then continue to progress the claim and charge a success fee. 
Had SDL cancelled the agreement and issued a cancellation fee and then decided to waive 
this in order to resolve the complaint, then I couldve taken that into account. And, in relation 
to the arrears fee, I cant see SDLs decision to not charge this has been made as a 
resolution to the complaint. And, apart from the issue with the phone line, the errors I have 
identified  and for which I feel compensation is reasonable  havent been identified in 
SDLs complaint response. So, while I accept SDL have taken steps to help Mr W and to act 
in his best interests, I cant take those into account when deciding on a reasonable remedy.   
I note SDLs request for a summary of all the errors to allow them to respond to each point. I 
have however set this out in my provisional decision and have identified where I think there 
have been errors. And, SDL have been given an opportunity to provide their response to 
those points  which they have. I note SDLs comments about events which have occurred 
outside of the service they have provided. But, my role is to look at the service SDL have 
provided to Mr W and, while I do note SDL are concerned about the events they feel amount 
to harassment, I cant comment on them. 
I understand SDLs point about their fees being £18.16 even though the costs in processing 
the claim is much higher. That is the risk all parties take when entering into a conditional fee 
agreement. There might well be occasions where a businesss fees are lower than the value 
of the work carried out. SDLs fees amount to 36% of the compensation received  and the 
compensation was lower due to it being handled by administrators and therefore dependent 
on the amount they were able to recover from selling Lender Ws assets.     
I wish to reassure the parties I have considered all of their comments and if I havent 
specifically commented on any point, that doesnt mean it has been ignored. Rather, it 
means I dont feel its relevant to my decision. Having considered all of the information and 
comments, I have decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think £50 compensation  which includes the £10 already offered  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I note Mr W 
feels the compensation should be £75 but I dont agree. While there has been frustration and 
confusion, this has been over a very short period of time. And, theres no evidence any of 
the errors had a wider impact on Mr W or his claim.    
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that there have been errors in the service SDL have provided to Mr W. 
So, SDL should pay compensation to Mr W. I feel £50 compensation is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances and reflects the frustration caused to Mr W. This sum includes the £10 
which SDL have already offered to Mr W.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Sanderson Drake Limited must pay 
compensation of £50 to Mr W. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman