DRN-4018025
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that their instructions to CMME Mortgages and Protection Limited 
(CMPL) to progress a product rate switch with their mortgage provider were not acted upon, 
resulting in the rate they were ultimately able to secure being higher and causing them a 
direct loss. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L spoke with CMPL in April 2022 as their fixed rate mortgage was coming to an 
end on 31 July 2022. The advisor (X) they spoke to emailed Mr and Mrs L a product rate 
switch illustration on 3 May 2022. This was for a five-year fixed rate mortgage of 2.64% until 
31 August 2027. X told Mr L in an email dated 16 May 2022 that the 2.64% rate was still 
available and the following day Mr L replied that he wanted to do the product switch and 
asked how to proceed from there. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt receive a response and so telephoned CMPL to learn that X no longer 
worked at CMPL and had left on 17 May. They were told that they would be contacted by 
another advisor in due course, but they made it clear that they were keen to secure the rate 
they had discussed with X before she left.
Mr and Mrs L chased matters on 18, 19, 24 and 1 June when an appointment was made for 
them to see another advisor (Z) on 6 June. Mr L contacted the lender directly on 1 June and 
found out that the 2.64% rate was no longer available. When Mr and Mrs L met with Z he 
was unable to produce a product rate switch illustration for them and so on 9 June they 
applied by telephone directly to the lender securing a fixed rate of 2.94% for 5 years.
CMPL has confirmed that the five-year fixed rate mortgage of 2.64% was withdrawn on 
25 May 2022. It has also confirmed that when X left the business the email Mr and Mrs L 
sent to her on 17 May was lost in the transfer of her email inbox to the new advisor. CMPL 
feel that there was still further work that needed to be done and several stages and 
questions to go through before matters could have been fully finalised and an application 
made to the lender. Because of that it did not think the 2.64% rate X had provided to 
Mr and Mrs L could be said to have been secured and so did not accept it should be 
responsible for any losses they might have incurred by virtue of the rate increase. It did 
however accept that Mr and Mrs L had had to make repeated telephone calls following the 
departure of X and so offered compensation in that regard of £250.
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with CMPLs final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there had been 
poor service by CMPL, and the amount of compensation offered was insufficient. He thought 
that CMPL were responsible for the loss Mr and Mrs L incurred as a result of the rates 
increasing. As such his view was that CMPL should compensate Mr and Mrs L the difference 
between the amount they would have paid over the five-year fixed mortgage of 2.64% and 
the amount they will have to pay on the 2.94% rate they were able to secure. In addition, he 
thought CMPL should pay £250 compensation for the inconvenience and distress caused. 
Mr and Mrs L agreed with our investigators view, but CMPL didnt and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my Provisional Decision on the 12 February 2022 and both Mr and Mrs L have 
responded to say they accept it. CMPL has not responded, and in these circumstances I 
have no reason to change my provisional decision.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
There are certain accepted facts here, the first being that Mr and Mrs L gave clear 
instructions to proceed with the product rate switch for a five-year fixed rate at 2.64% on the 
17 May 2022. That rate was withdrawn by the lender eight days later on 25 May. When 
Mr and Mrs L learned from Z on 6 June that he couldnt provide them with an illustration they 
were able to contact the lender and make the arrangements themselves by 9 June. Also, on 
28 April X emailed Mr and Mrs L to confirm that if they were choosing to stay with their 
current lender then she would only need ID and address proof, which she went on to say she 
may already have.
From this I find the clear intention of Mr and Mrs L was that they wanted to proceed with the 
product rate switch at 2.64%. I think it also demonstrates that it is more than likely that had X 
followed Mr and Mrs Ls instructions to submit an application to their current lender on 
17 May that they would have secured the product switch at the rate of 2.64%. I do 
understand that X left CMPL on the very day that Mr and Mrs L gave that instruction, but I 
would expect a business to have in place procedures to ensure a swift and seamless 
transition in the event that an advisor leaves, becomes ill, or is otherwise unable to deal with 
their clients. Had that been the case here, I find the product rate switch would most likely 
have gone through.
I know CMPL have argued that the application had not actually commenced by 17 May and 
had X remained at the business or another advisor picked up the case immediately, there 
were other steps to go through such as Mr and Mrs L paying any applicable fees, accepting 
the terms of the illustration through DocuSign, and agreeing to any other relevant conditions 
including electronic ID checks. However, I am not persuaded that any or all of this would 
have delayed matters so as to prevent an application being made before the rate changed. 
Those steps seem to me to be relatively straightforward, and I conclude that there would 
have been ample time in the eight days before the rate changed for CMPL to have secured 
the mortgage Mr and Mrs L wanted.
Putting things right
So, although CMPL will probably be disappointed with my decision, I do find that Mr and 
Mrs L have suffered a direct financial loss, which can be calculated by applying the 
difference between the two rates of 2.64% and 2.94%, to the mortgage they instructed X to 
apply for over the five-year period.Ive also given some thought as to what might be a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs L. When this service 
considers what an appropriate level of compensation might be, we consider a variety of 
factors, including the trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience that may have been caused. 
We categorise awards and examples of these can be found on our website. 
In my view I do not consider that £250, as offered, is sufficient in the circumstances of this 
case. Mr and Mrs L suffered immediate inconvenience and distress for the period when a 
replacement advisor was not found. There was a period of two weeks before they found out 
another advisor had been appointed to them and then a further six days before they were 
able to meet with him. When they did meet he was unable to provide a mortgage illustration 
for them which may or may not have been entirely CMPLs fault. They then had to make 
their new mortgage arrangement themselves with the lender directly. Beyond that, having 
made their complaint to CMPL, it was not accepted by CMPL requiring them to expend 
further time and effort in bringing the matter to this service.
All of that leads me to the conclusion that the impact of CMPLs mistake has caused 
considerable distress, upset and worry requiring a lot of extra effort to sort out over many 
months. I will therefore be suggesting an increase in the ex-gratia award to £400.
My final decision
My final decision is that CMME Mortgages and Protection Limited shall 
(a) pay Mr and Mrs L £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused to them
(b) calculate the additional cost Mr and Mrs L will incur as a result of their mortgage 
being at the higher rate of 2.94% beyond the rate they would have had on the 
mortgage they instructed X to apply for at 2.64%, and over a period of five years.
(c) CMME Mortgages and Protection Limited shall then pay the sum calculated at 
paragraph (b) above to Mr and Mrs L by way of further compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman