DRN-2445591
The complaint
Mr W complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly rejected a claim under 
his car insurance and cancelled his policy.
What happened
Mr W had a car insurance policy with Advantage. In December 2019, he was driving home at 
around 4am, fell asleep at the wheel, and hit a parked car. Police attended the scene and 
breathalysed Mr W, whod admitted drinking beer the previous evening. He passed the test 
and the police took no further action at the time. However, Mr W was later charged with 
driving without due care and attention.
Mr W reported the accident to Advantage and made a claim on his policy for the damage to 
his own car. He told Advantages claims handler the same thing hed told police: hed had 3-
4 pints of lager while out with friends the evening before the accident, driven home in the 
early hours of the morning, fallen asleep at the wheel, and hit a parked car.
Advantage rejected Mr Ws claim and cancelled his policy. It said that while Mr W wasnt 
over the legal drink drive limit, hed drunk a considerable amount of alcohol. It told him: it 
is likely that this alcohol has been a large contributory factor to you falling asleep at the 
wheel and losing control of the vehicle; at which point you would be considered unfit to be 
driving. It told Mr W that he would be liable to pay the cost of settling the third partys claim. 
Mr W didnt accept this and complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. She found that 
police had determined that Mr W wasnt over the drink drive limit, and while Mr W admitted 
hed fallen asleep at the wheel, she didnt think this was enough for Advantage to conclude 
that he was unfit to drive. She recommended that Advantage settle his claim in line with the 
policy terms and conditions.
Advantage disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage highlighted Section 4 of the General Exceptions in Mr Ws policy booklet 
(Alcohol and drugs). This says:
You're not covered if an accident happens while you or anyone entitled to drive under 
your current Certificate of Motor insurance:
Is found to be over the prescribed limit for alcohol in the country where the 
incident happens
Is driving while unfit through alcohol, drugs or other substances, whether 
prescribed or not
Doesn't provide a sample of breath, blood or urine when required to do so, 
without lawful reason.
Mr Ws policy goes on to say that, in these circumstances, Advantage may seek to recover 
from you any sums paid by the Insurer to discharge that persons liability. In other words, 
Mr W would have to pay for the damage to the parked car.
Advantage relied on the second bullet of the policy term  driving while unfit through alcohol 
 to reject Mr Ws claim. It acknowledged that Mr W wasnt arrested or charged with drink 
driving but said his alcohol consumption the evening before the accident meant he was unfit 
to drive.
I dont think thats fair. Mr Ws policy doesnt define unfit through alcohol as distinct from 
being over the legal drink drive limit or explain how Advantage would determine this. In the 
absence of this, I think its reasonable to rely on the polices judgement.
Mr W was breathalysed by officers at the scene and he wasnt over the drink drive limit. 
They didnt arrest him or charge him with any alcohol-related offence. I think its reasonable 
to conclude that if the police took no action, they were satisfied that he was fit to drive. 
As far Im aware, Advantage didnt get a police report of the accident or a statement from the 
attending officers. So it looks like it reached its conclusion based on the same account Mr W 
gave police, plus the results of the breath test. Thats the same information that the police 
used to determine that Mr W wasnt unfit to drive. In the circumstances, I dont think its 
reasonable for Advantage to decide something different.
Advantages arguments  that three or four pints is a considerable amount of alcohol, that 
alcohol is a depressant, and that a breathalyser reading of 27mg per 100ml of breath would 
put some in an unfit state to drive their vehicle  are broad and dont persuade me that Mr 
W was unfit to drive that morning. Again, I think the best judges of this were the police 
officers who attended the scene.
Mr W was later charged with driving without due care and attention. But thats not the reason 
Advantage rejected his claim, or why it cancelled the policy and asked him to pay its third 
party costs. It did so because it said Mr W was unfit through alcohol. I dont think 
Advantage has shown this, so I dont think its reasonable for it to rely on this term.
It follows that I dont think Advantage acted fairly by rejecting Mr Ws claim. I think it should 
reinstate the claim and settle it in line with the remaining policy terms. It should also remove 
any record of the policy cancellation, including any information shared with other insurers.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to:
Reinstate Mr Ws claim and settle it in line with the remaining policy terms. 
Remove any record of the policy cancellation from internal and external databases.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 Simon Begley
Ombudsman