DRN-1955716
The complaint
Ms M says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with a credit card.
What happened
Ms M took out her credit card in 1999 and declined PPI. In 2004 PPI was added to her 
account after a phone call with Barclays.
The policy cost 79p for each £100 of the balance on Ms Ms credit card. If Ms M had made a 
successful unemployment, accident or sickness claim, the policy wouldve paid 10% of its 
outstanding balance for up to 12 months for each claim.
Ms M says she didnt know PPI had been added to her account.
The adjudicator who looked at Ms Ms complaint didnt uphold it. Ms M disagrees and so her 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken it into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays had to make it clear to Ms M she had a choice about taking the policy and get her 
agreement to it. The policy was sold over the phone some years after Ms Ms credit card 
account was opened. I dont know what Barclays told Ms M about the PPI at the time she 
was sold it  Barclays says is doesnt have a call recording or a call script from the time. But 
it has shown us evidence a call with Ms M took place.
Because PPI was added to Ms Ms account years after it was opened and following a phone 
call, I think its likely Ms M wouldve known at the time it was being added to her account  
even though she no longer remembers this. And I think its likely this happened because she 
agreed to it during the call, knowing she didnt have to (and having previously turned it 
down). 
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Ms M. This means not only did it have to give her 
information about the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading, so she could make an 
informed choice about whether she wanted to buy it. But also it had to make sure it was right 
for her needs and circumstances. 
I dont know if Barclays took all the steps it shouldve here. But, from what I know of Ms Ms 
circumstances at the time and the policy details Ive got, I think it was right for her. I say this 
because, from what Ive seen:
She was eligible for the policy. And it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult for her to make a successful claim (and it seems Ms M did make a 
successful claim).
At the time of the sale Ms M says she was got some sick pay (six months full pay 
and three months half pay) which she could use to make her repayments if she 
couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of this and also covered her if 
she lost her job, for up to 12 months. So I think the policy gave Ms M a useful benefit. 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to her at the time. 
Its possible Barclays didnt give Ms M information about the PPI that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. But, as Ive said, I think its likely she agreed to it and it was right for her. So I 
dont think clearer information wouldve changed Ms Ms decision  I think its likely she 
would still gave taken it out. 
So I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Ms M about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms M.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Ms M any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman