DRN-1801331
The complaint
Mr N complains that Equifax Limited wont agree to remove his data from its records. He 
also wants compensation for his data being leaked.
What happened
Mr N wrote to Equifax to request that it delete his name from all marketing lists and 
databases. He said it didnt have his permission to share his personally identifiable 
information with third parties. And it didnt have his permission to share information about his 
creditworthiness.
Equifax said it would delete all the marketing service data it held for him and it would also 
delete his membership details. But it wasnt able to erase his personal data. It told Mr N that 
credit reference agencies hold and process this information under the legitimate interest 
grounds and do not rely on an individuals consent for this. 
Mr N complained that Equifax wouldnt agree to delete all the data it held about him. He said 
it was wrong to hold it without his consent. He referred to Equifax having recently been fined 
by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) for a massive data breach. Mr N said he 
wanted compensation for the data loss. 
In response, Equifax said it couldnt remove Mr Ns personal data because it had a legitimate 
business interest to hold it and support financial institutions in areas such as promoting 
responsible lending and helping to prevent over-indebtedness. The use of data by credit 
reference agencies would have been explained in the terms and conditions of any relevant 
products and services, such as an application for a loan Mr N might have made in the past. 
Equifax said it couldnt find any evidence that Mr N was impacted by the Equifax 
cybersecurity breach in 2017. Customers who were had been sent a letter advising them 
that their details had been compromised. But it would consider any genuine request to be 
compensated for loss. It asked Mr N to provide a breakdown of his financial losses along 
with any supporting documents to show these were caused by Equifax.
Mr N remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. He said Equifax had 
been fined £500,000 for a data breach following a cyberattack in 2017. His financial records 
had been hacked and his financial details werent correct. Hed lost trust in Equifax handling 
his data. Equifax was in breach of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) by 
refusing to delete his data.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ns concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
He explained the role of our service and the ICO, as well as the relevant laws and guidance 
hed taken into account when reaching his conclusions. He said Equifax had a legitimate 
reason to hold Mr Ns data and he didnt think it had acted unreasonably by continuing to 
hold his financial data after Mr N told it he was withdrawing his consent. Mr N disagreed with our investigators view. He said Equifax was holding his data on 
commercial grounds to sell it to other companies and leak it to data hackers. So, his 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive taken into account the relevant law, regulations, guidance, standards and 
good industry practice. Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr N says Equifax are breaching the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA) and General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR) by continuing to hold his data when hes not given it consent 
to do so.
The UK data protection regime is set out in the DPA 2018, along with the GDPR (which also 
forms part of UK law). Organisations must have a valid, lawful basis for storing personal 
data. These are set out in Article 6 of the GDPR. Equifax is relying on article 6 1 (f) which 
allows data to be processed if:
processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the 
controller or by a third party, except where such interests are overridden by the interests or 
fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject which require protection of personal 
data, in particular where the data subject is a child.
Equifax doesnt need Mr Ns consent to store Mr Ns date if its allowed to store it on the 
basis of legitimate interests. But Mr N says Equifax doesnt have a legitimate interest for 
holding his data. He says its a commercial one. 
The ICOs guidance on GDPR says organisations storing data on the basis of legitimate 
interests must balance your interests against the individuals. If they would not reasonably 
expect the processing, or if it would cause unjustified harm, their interests are likely to 
override your legitimate interests.
Equifax says it has compelling, overriding grounds to carry on processing personal data 
following an objection from a data subject. It says the role of credit reference agencies is 
important to the UKs financial system (for example supporting responsible lending, 
preventing over-indebtedness, fraud and money laundering).
I can understand Mr Ns concerns about the safety of his data, particularly in light of the 
cybersecurity breach of 2017. Im aware the ICO fined Equifax £500,000 for failing to protect 
the personal information of up to 15 million UK citizens during a cyberattack. But Im mindful 
that the Financial Conduct Authority has continued to give Equifax permission to provide 
credit references. In order to do so, it needs to be able to store personal information and 
provide relevant data to businesses who require it to support lending decisions. I also think 
Mr N is likely to have given the companies who have passed information about him to 
Equifax his permission to do so, when he agreed to their terms and conditions.
So, I think Equifax has shown that it has a legitimate interest in holding Mr Ns data. It 
follows that I dont think Equifax has acted unfairly or unreasonably by refusing to delete all 
of Mr Ns personal information.Mr N does have the right to withdraw his consent for Equifax to use his data for marketing 
purposes. But Equifax says it has deleted all the marketing data it held for him along with his 
membership details. And I havent seen anything to show it hasnt done this.
Mr N has also complained about his data being breached. Equifax says its unable to locate 
any evidence that Mr N was impacted by the cybersecurity breach in 2017. And I havent 
seen any other evidence a breach of Mr Ns data has occurred. Mr N has also told us hes 
part of a court case relating to this issue. So, I dont think it would be appropriate for me to 
comment further on this part of his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman