DRN-1554774
 The complaint
Mr H complains about the way that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as 
Skoda Finance, has dealt with some parking fines for a car that was supplied to him under a 
hire agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator - so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H agreed in the hire agreement that he would be liable for all fines associated with 
his use of the car;
Skoda Finance accepts that there was a delay in it processing the parking fines that it 
received as a result of Mr H's use of the car so it paid them to stop the costs 
escalating - it has apologised for the delay and says that it feels: "... there was an 
extensive delay from our side and therefore, as a goodwill gesture I have waived the 
£25 admin fee for each fine and I will reduce the fines to the minimum £60 each";
it collected £240 from Mr H for four fines and has asked him to pay it £120 for two 
other fines;
Mr H has provided an e-mail from the landlord of the building where he works which 
says that it issues permits to his employer permitting its employees to use some of 
the parking spaces on the site and it has: "... an agreement in place that any fines will 
be cancelled once forwarded through to me, as long as payment has not been 
made";
I consider that Mr H has provided enough evidence to show that the parking fines 
would have been cancelled if he'd been notified about them before they were paid; 
and
as a result of the delay, which it admits, Skoda Finance paid the fines and by doing 
so prevented Mr H from arranging for them to be cancelled.
 
Putting things right
I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Skoda Finance to 
refund to Mr H the £240 that it's collected from him for four of the parking fines and to waive 
the £120 that it's charged him for the other two parking fines. I don't consider that it would be 
fair or reasonable for me to require it to pay any compensation to Mr H - or to take any other 
action in response to his complaint.My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr H's complaint and I order Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Skoda Finance,to:
1. Refund to him the £240 that it's collected from him for the parking fines.
2. Waive the £120 that it's charged him for the parking fines.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman