DRN-3865418
The complaint
Mr A complains HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (HSBC) didnt do enough to 
protect him when he fell victim to an investment scam and lost money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr A says he saw what purported to be an online article from a well-known news outlet 
regarding crypto investment opportunities. Mr A explained that he had wanted to invest in 
crypto for some time but hadnt known how to go about it. He followed a link attached to the 
article and completed an enquiry form for a company (Ill refer to as B). Mr A said he had 
looked for online reviews of the company and had reviewed the website. He said he was 
reassured that the website appeared to carry features he expected from a legitimate 
company  for example an About us section as well as a Complaints and Support 
Section. Mr A said he was particularly reassured because the website stated the company 
was regulated by the FCA.
Having reassured himself the company was genuine, Mr A provided a copy of his photo ID 
and proof of address as part of an application process. He was later provided with welcome 
documents and paid a £250 deposit to start investing. Mr A was later contacted by an 
individual presenting himself as an account manager with B who persuaded Mr A to 
download software, which allowed them access to his computer.
Between 14 and 17 September 2021, Mr A made two payments, totalling £8,000, to a crypto 
exchange platform. Mr A said he was given access to a trading platform and could see how 
his trades were performing. He said some trades werent successful, but overall, they were 
producing a profit.
Mr A said he was finding it difficult to keep up with trading and wanted to withdraw his funds 
from his trading account. He says he was told he needed more money in his trading account 
to make a withdrawal. When he told the account manager he could not afford to make any 
further payments, Mr A said he was advised to take out a £11,000 loan to cover the funds 
which could then be repaid once his money was released. Scared that he would lose all his 
money, Mr A says he applied for a loan from a regulated loan provider and then transferred 
the money on to the crypto exchange.
Mr A says he saw funds leave the crypto exchange account. The scammers then asked him 
for more money, he says it was at this stage he realised he had been scammed and that B 
was not a legitimate company.
Mr A contacted HSBC and told it hed been the victim of a scam. HSBC advised that it could 
not recover the money and would not be refunding Mr A as hed authorised the transactions.
In March 2022 Mr A instructed solicitors (who Ill refer to as C) who complained to HSBC that 
it had failed to protect Mr A from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. C said HSBC should 
have identified that Mr As transactions were unusual and out of character for his account. It 
said it also failed to provide him with effective warnings that could have prevented the scam 
from taking place.
HSBC considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. It explained that as Mr A had transferred 
money from his account to another account in his name (what it referred to as a me to me 
transfer) it wasnt covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) and so it 
wouldnt look to refund the money lost. It also noted that Mr A may also have recourse with 
the loan provider.
Mr A complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He said HSBC hadnt done enough 
to protect him. He said he wasnt aware that the scam had typical scam hallmarks  for 
example the use of software to access his computer. He said HSBC should have recognised 
the payments were out of character for his usual account usage, particularly the last 
transaction where he received a £11,000 loan payment and immediately transferred it to 
another account. He argued that it had therefore failed in its duty of care to him.
Our Investigator partially upheld the complaint. She thought Mr As receipt of the £11,000 
loan payment immediately followed by a transfer of the same amount to another account 
was unusual and uncharacteristic for his usual account usage. Our Investigator concluded 
this transaction should have triggered on HSBCs systems and prompted some intervention 
before the transaction was processed. She said HSBCs automated, generic warnings were 
not sufficient in the circumstances.
Our Investigator concluded that had HSBC taken the steps it ought to have, its likely Mr A 
would have become aware of the scam and wouldnt have gone ahead with the transaction. 
She recommended HSBC put Mr A back in the position hed have financially been in had he 
not transferred £11,000 from his account.
Mr A accepted our Investigators opinion and recommendation. HSBC disagreed. In 
summary it said:
The payments Mr A made went to an account in his own name and under his control, 
so the scam took place from that account, not the one held with HSBC. HSBC should 
therefore not be held responsible for his loss. 
The loan company that provided Mr A with the £11,000 loan should accept some 
responsibility. 
Mr A was, at least in part, responsible for his loss, as he failed to carry out due 
diligence before investing and failed to follow the advice in the warning that was 
presented to him before he completed the payment.
Our Investigator considered HSBCs points but remained of the view that the complaint 
should be upheld. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me. On 
23 November 2022 I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend on partially upholding this complaint and for largely the same 
reasons as our Investigator.
Im sorry to hear Mr A was the victim of a sophisticated and targeted scam and has lost a 
considerable sum of money as a result. I understand this has had a significant impact on his life and finances. In the circumstances, I can appreciate why he wants to do all he can 
to recover the money he lost. But I can only direct HSBC to refund Mr As losses if it can 
fairly and reasonably be held responsible for them.
It is accepted that Mr A authorised the scam payments totalling £19,000 from his HSBC 
account. So, although he didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr A is 
presumed liable for his loss in the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of 
the account, where a valid payment instruction has been received HSBCs obligation is to 
follow the instructions that he provides.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be 
appropriate for a bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before 
processing a payment in order to help protect its customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. This service has referenced the relevant rules, codes of 
practice and good industry practice in many previous decisions published on our website.
While HSBCs first obligation is to follow Mr As payment instructions, if an instruction is 
sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id reasonably expect it to 
intervene and ask more about the reasons for making the payment before processing it. 
Id also expect it to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help its customers 
make an informed decision whether to continue with the payment. There might also be 
cases where it would be appropriate for a bank to refuse to follow a payment instruction if 
there were good grounds to believe it was being made because of a fraud or scam.
I should note that this duty applies whether the loss occurred from HSBCs account, or at 
some later point in the payment journey. So, while I understand that HSBC has 
suggested it is not responsible for Mr As loss as the funds were transferred to an account 
in his own name, this does not absolve HSBC of its responsibility to intervene if it had 
grounds to believe its customer was at risk of financial harm from fraud. Mr As losses, 
though not arising from the initial transfer, ought to have been within the contemplation of, 
and reasonably foreseeable to, HSBC. So, Im satisfied it can be held responsible for the 
loss Mr A suffered.
Did HSBC do enough to identify the risk of financial harm from fraud?
Neither party seems to have disputed our Investigators conclusions that Mr As 
transaction on 21 September 2021 was uncharacteristic for his usual account usage, and 
HSBC should therefore have intervened at that point. For clarity, I agree.
While the initial scam transactions (those made between 14 and 17 September 2021) 
were not completely in keeping with Mr As day-to-day account use, he had made at least 
one similar sized transaction in the preceding 12 months. So, I cant reasonably conclude 
that the first two payments were sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic where it would be 
fair to say that HSBC ought to have intervened. But I agree with our Investigator that 
Mr As instruction to pay £11,000 on 21 September 2021, should reasonably have stood 
out to HSBC as it was an unusually high value payment that was not in keeping with the 
usual account usage. I think the fact that the payment went to a crypto exchange, having 
just been received from a loan provider, should also have stood out as potentially 
suspicious. As such, I consider that HSBC should have contacted Mr A and satisfied itself 
that he was not at risk of financial harm from fraud before it processed his payment 
instruction.
Would appropriate intervention have affected Mr As loss?While HSBC has provided evidence to show that Mr A was presented with automated 
fraud warnings before making his initial payment on 14 September 2021, there has been 
no suggestion that it intervened in anyway before he made the payment on 
21 September 2021. Ive therefore considered what I consider appropriate intervention 
would have looked like and whether its likely this would have made a difference to Mr As 
decision to make the payment or not.
Had Mr As payment instruction on 21 September 2021 flagged up as being unusual and 
uncharacteristic with HSBC  as I think it reasonably ought to have done  Id have 
expected HSBC to have contacted Mr A to ask him about his intended payment before 
the payment instruction was processed. At that point, questions should have been asked 
about the nature and purpose of the payment Mr A was proposing to make.
Theres been no suggestion that Mr A was given a cover story by the scammers, so I 
think its reasonable to assume hed have answered honestly and explained he was 
seeking to make a transfer as part of an investment. Given the prevalence of investment 
scams, particularly those involving crypto, I think it would have been prudent for HSBC to 
have asked Mr A meaningful, probing questions about the transaction and his intended 
investment.
For example, I think it should reasonably have asked Mr A how he was introduced to the 
investment, what he was investing in and what checks hed already carried out to confirm 
its authenticity.
I think Mr A would have most likely explained he:
had been enticed by an article hed found online; 
had been advised to purchase crypto from a legitimate crypto exchange before 
transferring it to the wallet details provided to credit his trading platform; 
had been unable to withdraw his funds; and 
was told to draw down a loan to invest further sums to release existing funds.
I also think reasonable and proportionate questioning would likely have uncovered that 
Mr A had downloaded software that allowed his broker access to his computer.
All of this should have been clear indicators of the real possibility that Mr A was likely 
falling victim to an investment scam.
I think had HSBC provided Mr A with clear scam warnings and encouraged him to carry 
out more thorough checks such as checking the regulators website he would have done 
so, and hed have discovered that B didnt have the authorisation its website suggested it 
had. While this alone wouldnt have confirmed that it was a scam, I think had Mr A been 
made aware his proposed investment bore the hallmarks of a scam and that his money 
would be at risk if he completed the payment, I think its most likely he would have 
decided the risk was too high to accept  so he wouldnt have proceeded, and his future 
losses would have been prevented.
I appreciate that HSBC has pointed to the fact that Mr A failed to follow the advice or 
warning that was presented in its automated pop up when making the first transaction, 
and so it could be argued he wouldnt have followed the advice had HSBC intervened. 
But I think an interaction with his bank would have been far more effective than a pop-up 
box that he may not have fully engaged with  and for the reasons above had HSBC 
spoken to Mr A before processing the payment I think he wouldnt have proceeded with 
the payment. And even if I were wrong, I think the information he wouldve shared when 
questioned could have been enough on its own to prompt HSBC to refuse the payment instruction, which would have prevented Mr As loss.
Should Mr A bear some responsibility for his loss?
I have thought carefully about whether Mr A should bear some responsibility for his loss 
by way of contributory negligence (which might justify a reduction in compensation). 
And overall, I dont think he should.
HSBC considers Mr A failed to carry out due diligence before investing. It argues that as 
Mr A works within the finance sector, he should have understood investments. It said that 
given Mr A took confidence from the fact Bs website made multiple references to the 
FCA, he should have checked the register himself. It also considers his online research 
should have uncovered negative reviews that highlighted B was likely a scam.
Ive carefully considered HSBCs position, but I dont think Mr As actions, or inactions, fell 
far below the standard expected of a reasonable person. While Mr A works in the 
financial industry theres nothing to suggest he had any specific knowledge or skill in 
relation to investments, nor should he be expected to have any greater understanding of 
scams or their associated risks. As such, I dont think I can reasonably hold him partially 
responsible for his loss.
Unfortunately, Mr A fell victim to a highly sophisticated and well-orchestrated scam. As 
with many scams of this type, B employed an array of tactics to persuade prospective 
investors that the company was legitimate. Overall, I think a reasonable person could 
similarly have been persuaded to invest in what, on the face of it, appeared to be a good 
investment opportunity.
Ultimately, HSBC was best placed to warn Mr A of the risks associated with his proposed 
payment, but it failed to do so.
What should HSBC do to resolve the complaint?
Overall, I think HSBC should have intervened before processing Mr As payment of 
£11,000. Had it done so, I think its more likely than not Mr A would have decided not to 
go ahead with the payment and his losses from that point could have been prevented.
Mr A has provided evidence to show that, having initially kept up with repayments, he 
decided to repay the £11,000 loan early with funds taken from his mortgage. Im satisfied 
the available evidence supports that Mr A took out the £11,000 loan purely to finance his 
investment. Had HSBC intervened - as I think it should have - I think its more likely than 
not Mr A would have repaid the loan immediately (or within the cancellation period) and in 
doing so would have avoided all interest and charges connected to the loan. Given that 
Mr A has attempted to mitigate his losses by repaying his loan early and avoiding higher 
interest rates associated with the loan, I think it would be reasonable for HSBC to cover 
all interest and charges Mr A has incurred as a direct consequence of repaying this loan.
To put things right I am currently minded to tell HSBC to refund the payment of £11,000, 
plus any interest or charges Mr A has incurred directly as a result of HSBC failing to 
intervene before processing the payment. This does not include any wider costs Mr A 
incurred such as arranging the mortgage. These are costs Mr A was always going to 
incur so are not included in this redress. Its only the interest and charges associated with 
the loan.
Mr A accepted my provisional decision. HSBC asked for evidence of the interest and 
charges Mr A incurred when repaying the loan. Having received this, it confirmed that it did not disagree with the recommended redress. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party has provided any further evidence or raised any further 
points for my consideration, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion.
So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
HSBC should now refund the payment of £11,000, plus any interest or charges Mr A has 
incurred directly as a result of HSBC failing to intervene before processing the payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund £11,000 plus
All interest and charges Mr A has incurred directly in relation to repaying the £11,000 
loan from the date HSBC ought to have intervened to date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman