DRN-3816327
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice given by Pi Financial Ltd trading as Countrywide Estate 
Planning IFA (Countrywide) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice may have been 
unsuitable for him and believes this could have caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ls employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices 
was 11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr L approached Countrywide in October 2017 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. 
He was concerned that having seen many changes within the company that his pension may 
be reduced in the future. 
Countrywide completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ls circumstances and 
objectives. This showed that Mr L was aged 45 and lived with his partner who was aged 39. 
They had two dependent children. Both Mr L and his partner were employed full time and 
their income was above their outgoings. Mr L had cash savings of £5,000 and a loan of 
about £10,00. Mr L and his partner owned their own home which was subject to a mortgage. 
Countrywide also carried out an assessment of Mr Ls attitude to risk, which it said was low 
medium. 
In respect of Mr Ls pension arrangements: 
Mr L had received two cash equivalent transfer values (CETV) from the BSPS. Ive not 
seen these documents. But I understand that Mr L had two periods of service. Period one 
was between September 1988 to July 1998 and period two was between September 2002 
and May 2016. He was entitled to an annual pension at the date of leaving of about £2,600 
from period one and £12,600 from period 2. The total CETV was about £421,150.  
Mr L had also joined his employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme. The fact find 
shows he was contributing 6% of his salary into this and his employer was contributing 9%.
On 6 November 2017, Countrywide advised Mr L to transfer his pension benefits into a 
personal pension and invest the proceeds in line with his attitude to risk. The suitability 
report said the reasons for this recommendation were, in summary: 
Mr L wanted to retire at age 60 without any reduction factors.
He wanted to control his own pension fund, and he intended to use the funds while 
he was fit and healthy. He wanted to access the funds as and when he needed to, 
perhaps to go part time. 
He wanted to ensure that on his death any remaining funds could be passed to his 
partner and children. 
Mr L had concerns about the stability of his employer and the DB scheme. 
Mr L complained in 2022 to Countrywide about the suitability of the transfer advice. Hed 
received information that led him to believe that the transfer might not have been right for 
him and requested that compensation was calculated and paid if this was the case. 
Countrywide didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said that the advice was suitable for him as he 
understood investments and was concerned about the DB scheme. The personal pension 
was financially strong, and the funds used met his attitude to risk. It didnt think that Mr L had 
any grounds for complaint. 
Mr L referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An Investigator upheld the 
complaint and recommended Countrywide pay compensation. He said that Mr L was likely to 
receive lower retirement benefits due to the advice. And whilst he was attracted to the 
improved death benefits, and the flexibility the personal pension offered, these werent 
enough to outweigh the reduction in pension benefits he was likely to receive. Particularly as 
Mr L had a relatively long time until he retired over which he could build up a significant fund 
that he could use flexibly and to provide a lump sum on his death. He thought that Mr L 
should have been advised to join the BSPS2. 
Countrywide disagreed, saying that:
Mr L wasnt unhappy with the advice, but as his colleagues had received 
compensation the felt he should also give it a go. 
The critical yields were artificially high as they were based on the BSPS, and this was 
made known to Mr L. But he didnt want to purchase an annuity, so they werent 
really relevant. 
Mr L could meet his income requirements through other sources and he did want to 
manage his pension fund himself. 
Mr L wasnt married and so he may have lost his pension fund in its entirety on his 
death. He wanted to provide for his partner and family if this happened.  
Mr L did not want to wait to transfer due to the inherent risk of the loss of his whole 
pension fund.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
The industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has since developed, and now 
provides, a BSPS-specific redress calculator. All parties to the complaint have been 
informed that I may award compensation based on a loss assessment using the FCAs 
BSPS calculator.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Countrywide's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The FCA states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Countrywide should have only considered a transfer if it 
could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ls best interests. And having looked at 
all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that Countrywide was required to carry 
out by the regulator, calculated the critical yield, that is how much Mr Ls pension 
fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his 
DB scheme. Ive not seen a full copy of the TVAS although the suitability letter 
contains information from it. It said the critical yield was 8.32% and 7.15% to match 
the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 65 from each of 
the two periods of membership. As far as I can see Countrywide didnt perform the 
same calculations for the PPF, which it should have done as this was one of the 
options open to Mr L. These critical yields are usually slightly lower than those based 
on the BSPS. There wasnt any analysis done for retirement at different ages either, 
or if Mr L took tax-free cash. 
And despite the fact it was known by the point Countrywide instructed the TVAS that 
continuing in the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr L, the information I 
have indicates that the analysis was based on the BSPS benefits. And Countrywide 
didnt undertake any analysis of the benefits hed have been due under the BSPS2, even though details were available. I think it shouldve done this. In any event, given 
what we know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to match the benefits the 
BSPS2 wouldve provided from age 65 were likely to be slightly lower than those in 
the BSPS but likely higher than those from the PPF. 
Given Mr Ls recorded low-medium attitude to risk, the discount rate of 4.4% for 19 
years to retirement and the regulators low and middle projection rates, I think Mr L 
was always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 65, of a lower value that 
those hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and 
investing in line with that attitude to risk. Whilst I dont have these calculations the 
critical yield for the BSPS is high enough for me to say this is likely to be the case. 
And if Mr L wanted to retire early its likely that these critical yields would be higher 
still and he would be even more likely to receive lower benefits than either the 
BSPS2 or the PPF. 
And the suitability report noted that there was a material risk of the transfer providing 
lower benefits for Mr L when it said that There is no guarantee of future growth and it 
is possible that your eventual pension would be under this growth rate and so your 
benefits would be less than in your current scheme. Whilst this is correct, I think it 
understates the likely reduction in benefits for Mr L at the time. And I think the 
transfer wasnt in his best interests for this reason alone. 
Countrywide said the transfer was suitable for Mr L as it allowed him to potentially 
retire early and to access his pension flexibly. And he was prepared to receive a 
lower income to do this. It is true to say the personal pension could be more flexible, 
as from the DB scheme Mr L would have to take any tax-free cash he wanted at the 
same time as he took an income. He wouldnt have had to do this in the personal 
pension. 
It was noted that at age 67 Mr Ls retirement provision met his needs without risk. He 
and his partner wanted around £2,000 a month or, say, £25,000 a year. The BSPS 
would provide a pension of just under £30,000 at his age 65. Added to this, Mr L and 
his partner would receive state pensions of £16,000 a year his partner would receive 
a DB scheme pension of around £9,600 a year. So, I agree that at their scheme 
retirement ages their provision met their needs. And having a greater income than 
they need at retirement would allow them to enjoy it fully, or for example, save for 
their children in a tax efficient way such as through a trust. 
As far as I can see Countrywide didnt find out what the DB scheme would provide if 
Mr L retired earlier and its not clear why, as this seems to be one of his main 
objectives. That said the FCAs BSPS specific calculator said that it can be assumed 
that at age 60 Mr L would have received about 85% of his pension. This would still be 
over £25,000. Again, this still met their needs. And I think this would likely be similar 
from the BSPS2 or the PPF. 
Countrywide consistently referred to the reduction if Mr L took his benefits early from 
the DB scheme. But this isnt the right way to look at this. The starting pension is 
lower when benefits are taken early but this is to reflect the longer time in payment. 
And these changes are usually made on the basis that the pension will pay the same 
amount overall, given assumptions about life expectancy and so on. 
Added to this, I understand that Mr L and his employer had begun contributing to a 
recently set up DC pension scheme. They were together contributing 15% of Mr Ls 
salary to that pension. Given the amounts that were being invested, that his salary and contributions would likely increase over time and investment returns would 
increase all of this, Mr L would likely build up a significant amount of money in the DC 
scheme. 
This would provide Mr L with flexibility  he wasnt committed to take the benefits in a 
set way. He could have taken lump sums as and when required and adjusted the 
income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr L retained his DB 
pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, would have likely given him 
the flexibility to retire early - if that was what he ultimately decided to do. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr L needed to transfer to increase the flexibility in 
how he took his pension benefits at this time.
It was documented at the time of sale that the spouses pension the DB scheme had 
would not pass to his partner, as they were not married. And Mr L said he wanted to 
provide for her and his children on his death. And he was concerned that the fund 
would be lost if this happened before he retired. I dont doubt that Mr L was 
concerned about this. 
But the priority here was to advise Mr L about what was best for his retirement, and 
lower or less secure pension benefits could also negatively affect him and his 
partner. Essentially Mr L had a need to provide capital to a financial dependent on his 
premature death. And this is the kind of situation that term assurance is usually used 
for. Or a whole of life policy could have been considered. But there's little evidence 
Countrywide did so. I dont think the advice to transfer was suitable when this option 
wasnt properly considered in first instance. 
And while the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential 
lump sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different after Mr L retired. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it 
wouldve also been reduced by any income Mr L drew in his lifetime. And so may not 
have provided the legacy that Mr L may have thought it would. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr L. I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative. And ultimately Countrywide should not have 
encouraged Mr L to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
I think Mr Ls desire for control over how his pension was invested was overstated. 
I cant see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his 
pension funds on his own. And the recommendation seems to have been given on 
the basis hed receive, and pay for, ongoing support with his pension. So, I dont 
think that this was a genuine objective for Mr L  it was simply a consequence of 
transferring away from his DB scheme.
Mr L may have legitimately held concerns about how his employer had handled his 
pension and the prospect of entering the PPF. But it was Countrywides role to 
objectively address those concerns. At the time of the advice, all signs pointed 
toward the BSPS2 being established. But even if not, the PPF still provided Mr L with 
guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free cash. Mr L was unlikely to 
improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interest.Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ls best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension. And I also havent seen anything to 
persuade me that Mr L wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the DB 
scheme. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr L received from 
Countrywide was unsuitable for him.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr L, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr L would most 
likely have opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
Countrywide must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Countrywide should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
If Countrywide does not yet have access to the calculator it should contact the supervision 
department of the FCA to seek access to it as soon as possible. A copy of the BSPS 
calculator output should be sent to Mr L and the Financial Ombudsman Service upon 
completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Countrywide based 
the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr L has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ls 
acceptance of my decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Countrywide should:
calculate and offer Mr L redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr L before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr L receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr L accepts Countrywides offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr L for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ls end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr L as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Countrywide may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Ls likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay 
Mr L the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that Pi 
Financial Ltd pays Mr L the balance.
If Mr L accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Pi Financial Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr L can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman