DRN-3026025
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act (CCA) in respect 
of a mis-sold holiday product.
What happened
In January 2017 Mr and Mrs M purchased trial membership of a holiday product from a 
company I will call C at a cost of £3,995. This was funded by a loan from BPF in Mrs Ms 
name. In October 2017, while abroad they upgraded their membership at a cost of £9,276. 
This was also funded by BPF and this time the loan was in Mr Ms name. The membership 
gave them 10,000 points which they could use over seven years for holidays in a variety of 
places featured in Cs directory. A separate complaint has been made about the trial 
membership and in this decision I am only considering the purchase made in October 2017.
In 2018 they complained to C that they were unable to book a suitable holiday. BPF says it 
has been advised by C that Mr and Mrs M contacted it on two occasions to make bookings. 
It says that none of the accommodation was suitable for Mr and Mrs M and no bookings 
were made. Mr and Mrs M say they made a number of calls to C and that the 
accommodation offered was very limited and either too expensive or not suitable for their 
family of five. 
Mr and Mrs M asked for a refund of their money. C didnt agree and explained how the 
membership worked. BPF also considered the claim but concluded that there werent 
sufficient grounds to uphold the S 75 claim.
A complaint was made to this service and it was considered by one of our investigators who 
didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that the documentation signed by Mr and Mrs M set 
out that the products were subject to availability, maintenance fees were subject to increases 
and that the product should not be viewed as a financial investment. Instead, they were to be 
viewed as an investment in their holidays.
She also considered whether there was sufficient evidence to show that there had been 
either a breach of contract or misrepresentation. Mr M didnt agree and said C had not been 
able to offer any suitable holiday accommodation and the clause stating it was subject to 
availability should not be regarded as acceptable. He said that they had no access to the 
booking platform until the 14 day cooling off period had expired and the only available 
accommodation was either unsuitable or too expensive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under S 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
S 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make purchases of 
goods or services. Under S 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim against the provider 
of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part. 
For S 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
 Debtor-creditor-supplier agreement and 
 A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain. 
The is no dispute that the chain is intact and so I have to consider if there has been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation. 
Breach of Contract
The contract sets out what C was offering and while Mr M doesnt consider it to have 
delivered I cannot say that the contract was breached. I have read the contract and it sets 
out what is offered and from the evidence of Mr M and of C I am satisfied that it was able to 
provide holiday accommodation. I appreciate this may not have been to Mr Ms liking and it 
may not have met his expectations, but that does not mean that the contract has been 
breached.
Misrepresentation 
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
A claim can for misrepresentation can also arise where one party allows the other to proceed 
under a misunderstanding, although such cases are rare and generally limited to situations 
where there is a duty to disclose certain facts  for example, where legislation requires it or 
there is a duty of utmost good faith.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mr M and his wife were 
induced into entering into the trial membership agreement by a misrepresentation made by 
C. 
The documentation which was signed by Mr M sets out the terms and conditions and in 
particular the members declaration explains the key elements of the membership. This 
includes amongst other things that the transaction booking fee is £0.40 per point and their 
prices will be comparable but not necessarily cheaper than others. There is no guarantee 
that the accommodation sought by Mr M would be available.
I am aware that they may have been subjected to a hard sell by the agents acting for C, but 
that does not, of itself, mean that there was misrepresentation. They had the benefit of the 
trial membership and had one holiday under that agreement. I presume they would have had 
some appreciation of how C worked and were able to make an informed decision when 
entering into the second agreement. 
Our investigator also considered whether there was an unfair relationship with BPF under S 
140A of the Consumer Credit Act  but I dont consider that a complaint has been made that 
there was an unfair relationship between Mr M and BPF so Im unable to consider that issue 
as part of this complaint (and, although I make no finding on this issue, my view is that no 
evidence has been provided to show that there was an unfair relationship between them.)
I dont believe BPF had the opportunity to respond directly to Mr M, but it has explained to 
this service that it would not uphold any S 75 claim because it didnt consider there hadnt 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by C of that agreement;I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require BPF to 
refund to Mr M any of the money that he paid for the trial membership, to pay him any 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman