DRN-4230662
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) allowed his account to become 
overdrawn and that this has had an impact on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr E opened a bank account with Co-op in September 2022. Although the account didnt 
come with an arranged overdraft facility the terms and conditions of the account say that:
If you have not agreed an overdraft with us in advance and do not have sufficient funds to
cover payments due, we may either refuse the payment or allow it and agree to an 
unarranged overdraft. When you use an arranged or unarranged overdraft you will be 
charged debit interest. Any arranged or unarranged borrowing will show on your credit file. 
Unarranged borrowing will show as arrears, which can negatively impact your credit file and 
make it harder for you to obtain credit in the future.
On 4 October 2022 a payment to a merchant put Mr E into unarranged overdraft. Co-op sent 
Mr E a text alert about the unarranged overdraft the following day. Mr E continued to 
transact on the account and the account remained overdrawn until Co-op wrote to Mr E on 
28 and 30 March 2023 about the status of his account being in unarranged overdraft and 
confirmed that this may impact his credit file.
Mr E complained to Co-op that he never received the text alert and was unaware his account 
was overdrawn  he doesnt think it is fair that his credit file will be impacted.
Co-op didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. It says it acted within the terms and conditions of the 
account and no error had been made on its part.
Mr E was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mr Es concerns but didnt think Co-op had done anything wrong.
Mr E disagreed, although he accepts that he should have managed his finances better due 
to him working away he has limited connectivity and so wasnt able to check his phone 
messages or balance online. Mr E has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Mr E has experienced and see if Co-op has done anything 
wrong or treated Mr E unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr E back in the 
position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr Es main complaint point is that he didnt know he was in unarranged overdraft and that it 
is unfair that this has impacted his credit file. He says as soon as he found out he paid the 
balance. 
Firstly, as outlined above the terms and conditions of the account do say if there are 
insufficient funds in the account to cover payments than Co-op may agree an unarranged 
overdraft and that this can negatively impact your credit file. So I dont think that Co-op made 
a mistake when it allowed Mr Es account to become overdrawn and then reported this on 
his credit file as this was allowed under the terms and conditions of the account.
And I dont think Co-op treated Mr E unfairly either. When his account became overdrawn it 
alerted Mr E to this by text message the following day. I accept that Mr E may well have not 
received the text alert, but this is not due to an error on Co-ops behalf. And even without 
receiving the text message as Im sure Mr E is aware having a bank account comes with 
responsibilities  one of which is ensuring you have enough money in your account to meet 
the payments you wish to make. Mr E was registered for online banking so I would expect 
that he would be reviewing his statements when able.
I accept that Mr E may well have - at times  had difficulty with accessing his account online 
and / or receiving text messages. But again, this wasnt due to an error on Co-ops behalf. 
And Co-ops records show that Mr E transacted on the account on 11, 12, and 14 October 
and that he withdrew £250 from an ATM on 16 October and then paid it back in the same 
day. This suggests to me that Mr E was likely aware of the balance on his account and that it 
was overdrawn and that he chose not to do anything about it for almost five months.  Indeed, 
the statements show that the most Mr E ever had in his account was £150 when he opened 
it the month before  so why did he think hed be able to withdraw £250 without his account 
becoming overdrawn.
I understand that Mr E is concerned about the impact this has had on his credit report, but 
Co-op has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit 
reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate  and I think its reasonable to 
assume if you let your account go into unarranged overdraft and you do nothing about it that 
this will be reflected on your credit file. 
It might assist Mr E to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his credit record. 
The purpose of such a notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add any explanatory 
circumstances that they would like prospective lenders to take into consideration when 
making lending decisions. If he wishes to do this, he should contact the credit reference 
agencies directly. 
So I dont think Co-op have done anything wrong or treated Mr E unfairly. It acted within the 
terms and conditions of the account and alerted Mr E to the status of his account when it 
went into unarranged overdraft.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman