DRN-3554973
The complaint
Mrs Y complains about the quality of a car supplied to her by Blue Motor Finance Ltd 
(BMF).
Mrs Y has been represented. For clarity, Ive only referred to Mrs Y throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs Y acquired a used car under a hire purchase agreement with BMF for £15,400 in       
July 2021. The car was around four years old and had covered around 58,500 miles when it 
was supplied to Mrs Y. Under the agreement, Mrs Y was required to make 60 payments of 
£355.14. The car was supplied by a dealership Ill refer to as D.
Mrs Y says when she acquired the car, it had some scratches and chips. She says at the 
time, BMF agreed to repair these issues for her. Mrs Y took the car to D in August 2021, and 
it carried out repairs to the car. It repaired the window and carried out an alloy wheel refurb. 
It also said it mopped and polished the scratches to the car as best as possible. When the 
car was returned to Mrs Y, she says she let D know that the windscreen hadnt been 
repaired and the service was still showing as overdue. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs Y complained to BMF. She said there were scratches and chips on 
the paint, the windscreen was scratched, the tyres had chips, the window wasnt working 
and there was no handle on the back door. She says that D agreed to book the car in to 
repair the issues, but later said they didnt advise they would carry out repairs. 
Mrs Y also complained to D and said whilst some existing problems remained, further 
problems had occurred with the car. She said there was an issue with the drivetrain, the 
steering wheel shook heavily after 60mph, the windscreen scratches remained and the 
system stated a service hadnt been carried out, despite D telling her it had. She said there 
were other minor problems too that she hadnt mentioned. 
BMF issued its response to Mrs Ys complaint in October 2021. It said D had confirmed they 
had carried out repairs to the car and addressed all the issues raised by Mrs Y. BMF said it 
requested that Mrs Y provide it with evidence to show the repairs had failed, but she hadnt 
done this. And so, it didnt uphold her complaint.
Following this, Mrs Y obtained diagnostic evidence in November 2021. She provided this to 
BMF. In December 2021, BMF asked Mrs Y what she would like as a resolution to her 
complaint. Mrs Y explained she wanted to reject the car and hand back the car to the dealer. 
BMF responded and said it would arrange an independent inspection. Because Mrs Y hadnt 
received any communication to arrange an independent inspection, later that month, she 
wrote to D and said she wanted to reject the car as she had provided it with three 
opportunities to repair the car, but it failed to do so. She asked to exercise her final right to 
reject.  
BMF appointed an independent expert who Ill refer to as M in January 2022, to carry out 
an independent inspection. BMF issued a further response to Mrs Y after it received Ms 
report. It said there was damage to the front bumper and the headlamp wasnt working. It 
said this may have been caused due to an accident and so it wasnt responsible for this 
repair. It said the windscreen scratch wasnt obscuring the drivers view and D had carried 
out a polish on the windscreen to make it more appealing. So it said it wasnt responsible for 
the scratch. It said D carried out an oil and filter service and it could mean they didnt reset 
the light or a different service may be due. It suggested that Mrs Y contact D to resolve this 
matter. Finally it said the independent engineer couldnt replicate the shaking with the 
steering wheel, but noticed that a code in the ECU relating to an electrical issue. It said this 
issue wouldnt have been present at the point of supply and because it was a new issue 
which had been raised more than six months after Mrs Y was supplied her car, BMF werent 
responsible for the fault.
Unhappy with this, Mrs Y referred her complaint to this service. She said when she initially 
inspected the car, it didnt have a handle and the left hand rear window couldnt be operated. 
She said when she went to collect the car the handle had been fixed, but the issue with the 
window remained. She also said she noted scratches on the windscreen and alloys. She 
said D agreed to change the alloys, but didnt agree to change the windscreen. Mrs Y said D 
should have serviced the car, but it didnt do this. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and he thought the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mrs Y. He said D had agreed to complete repairs on the car 
before it supplied it to Mrs Y and these hadnt been completed. He also said the car had fault 
codes present. So he recommended that BMF should allow Mrs Y to reject the car.
Mrs Y agreed. But BMF disagreed and provided a statement from D which said:
At the time the car was sold, the cosmetic and aesthetic imperfections would have 
been present and Mrs Y was given the opportunity to inspect the car prior to agreeing 
to acquire it. 
Mrs Y continued with the sale on the understanding that D would carry out a mop and 
polish to make the exterior more appealing. D said this didnt guarantee that every 
scratch and mark would be removed, as a perfect finish could only be achieved from 
a complete respray. 
The car was returned to D on two occasions and on both occasions the exterior was 
polished. The customer care report clearly stated Ds effort was to minimise the 
defect and it wouldnt disappear completely. D said Mrs Y accepted this upon 
collection of the car. It queried how many more scratches the car had been subject to 
since purchase.
A further issue has developed which hasnt been reported back to D and M has said 
this fault wasnt present at the point of supply. D confirmed the service was 
completed and queried the mileage of the car at that time. 
Our investigator reviewed the further comments provided. But he said his assessment 
remained unchanged. Our investigator said he thought it was unlikely that Mrs Y understood 
that a mop and polish would mean the scratches wouldnt be removed. He said Ms report 
confirmed the car could benefit from rectification to improve the appearance and D had 
already been provided with two chances to repair the faults, at the time M carried out its 
report. He said Ms report said it couldnt confirm whether the fault code was present or 
developing at the point of supply, but acknowledged that it occurred within six months of the 
car being supplied to Mrs Y. So overall, he thought it was fair that Mrs Y should be entitled to 
reject the car.
BMF disagreed. It said Mrs Y was aware that the work carried out to the car wouldnt rid it of 
the imperfections. It reiterated that when both repairs were carried out, the job sheets made 
it clear the work carried out was to minimise scratches. It said on both occasions Mrs Y was 
given the opportunity to say she was unhappy with the work, but she didnt do this.
As BMF remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mrs Y has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. The rules of this service allow me to do this. 
What I need to decide in this case is whether the car supplied to Mrs Y was of satisfactory 
quality. If I dont think it was, Ill need to think whats fair, if anything, to put things right.
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. So our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. BMF is the supplier of the car under this type of 
agreement and so is responsible for dealing with a complaint about its quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers hire purchase agreements. Under a hire 
purchase agreement, there are implied conditions that the goods supplied will be of 
satisfactory quality. 
Mrs Y acquired a car that was used  so there would be different expectations compared to 
a new car. Having said that, the cars condition at the point of supply, should have met the 
standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account its age, 
mileage and price. The CRA says the aspects of the quality of the goods includes their 
general state and condition alongside other things such as their fitness for purpose, 
durability, freedom from minor defects, safety, and  of particular relevance to this case - 
appearance and finish.
The CRA says goods are not of unsatisfactory quality if faults are specifically drawn to a 
consumers attention before purchase. BMF has referred to the relevant provisions in the 
CRA. In this case, both Mrs Y and BMF appear to accept that the scratches were drawn to 
the attention of Mrs Y before she agreed to acquire the car. So I dont think the scratches 
simply being present on the car make the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
However, the dispute in this case doesnt concern this point. This dispute centres around 
what was said about the extent to which D would rectify the scratches that were present with 
the car, before Mrs Y agreed to acquire it. So Ive considered all the available evidence and 
circumstances to decide what I consider is most likely to have been said by D, about the 
repairs it would carry out to the appearance and finish of the car, before Mrs Y agreed to 
acquire it.
Around four weeks after the car was supplied to Mrs Y, she took it back to D for it to carry 
out repairs. The mileage at this point was recorded as 58,867. The job sheet from the time 
confirms that there is a near side rear window motor fault which was repaired, an oil and 
filter service was carried out and the service indicator on the dashboard was reset. The job 
sheet also confirms that a mop and polish was carried out to minimize [sic] scratch on body 
work and a polish to the windscreen was carried out to minimize [sic] scratch. It said, 
scratch is still present unable to make cosmetically more appealing. This job sheet is 
unsigned.
A further job sheet has been provided which is dated three days after the previous job sheet. 
The mileage on this job sheet is 58,870. This job sheet appears to be an extension of the 
previous repair, as the visit date is the same on both job sheets. This job sheet confirms that 
D carried out further work to the near side rear window and carried out a near side front alloy wheel refurb. It also said, Scratches on vehicle mopped and polished as best as possible. 
The job sheet is unsigned.
BMF has said that on both occasions these repairs were carried out, Mrs Y didnt indicate 
that she was unhappy with the work carried out. 
However, Ive seen other versions of the same job sheets These are signed with some 
comments made by Mrs Y. The comments for the first job sheet say that the windscreen 
scratch isnt sorted and the wheel scratch and chips arent sorted. The comments on the 
second job sheet say, Windscreen lines/scratch not done. Servicing still shows overdue (not 
satisfied). Mrs Y says these were handed to D when they delivered the car back to her. This 
is consistent with Mrs Ys complaint to BMF shortly after the second repair was carried out. 
In this email, she said, Dealerships have fixed a couple of issues, however still have not 
fixed the windscreen. She reiterated this to BMF a couple of days later.
Having carefully considered this, Im satisfied that D more likely than not told Mrs Y that it 
would remove the scratch in the windscreen. I say this because Im persuaded by Mrs Ys 
testimony and it has been consistent throughout her complaint. Her testimony is supported 
by her actions when she returned the car to D, the comments she made on the job sheets 
from August 2021 and her complaint to both D and BMF. All of this coupled together 
suggests that Mrs Y was unhappy with the repair work carried out by D, as it didnt rectify the 
damage in the way D likely led her to believe it was  which I think was to remove the 
scratch.
But even if Im wrong about this and accept that D said that it only agreed to mop and polish 
to make the exterior somewhat appealing in discussions around the time Mrs Y agreed to 
acquire the car, I dont think that D has carried out what would be considered a reasonable 
mop and polish of the windscreen scratch. I say this because Ms report carried out following 
two opportunities to repair the scratch by D states that, whilst the car meets MOT standards 
as the scratch isnt obstructing the drivers view, the scratch is around 20cm long and the 
scratch on the windscreen would benefit from rectification to improve the appearance of the 
car. D said further polishing of the windscreen could result in distortion of the glass. But M, 
who is an independent party, has confirmed that further work is required to improve the 
appearance. 
Having considered this carefully, I dont think D completed a mop and polish or carried out 
repairs in the way they reasonably led Mrs Y to believe they would, as M has also said the 
windscreen requires a professional repair. As D has had two opportunities to repair the 
windscreen scratch but it still remains visible, Im satisfied that Mrs Y is entitled to reject the 
car at this point.
There have also been a number of other issues with the car such as damage to the 
bodywork, the service light being overdue, a drive train fault and fault codes being stored on 
the car. Ill briefly comment on these.
Mrs Y says as part of her agreement to acquire the car, she was told that D would service 
the car. There isnt an invoice or advert for the car, but Mrs Y has maintained that D told her 
it would service the car. She also commented on the August 2021 job sheet to confirm this. 
D confirmed it carried out an oil and filter reset service. But Mrs Y received notification from 
the manufacturer in October 2021, that a service was due on her car. The mileage at the 
time Mrs Y acquired the car was 58,455. When M carried out the independent inspection, 
the mileage was 61,051. This meant Mrs Y had travelled 2,596 miles in the car at the time of 
Ms report. However, Ms report confirmed that the oil service was overdue by 7,000 miles. 
This means the service fell due before Mrs Y acquired the car. And given Ms report was 
conducted after D said it carried out the service, it suggests that an oil service wasnt carried 
out by D and this remained outstanding.
In November 2021, Mrs Y had a diagnostic carried out. This showed a number of issues with 
the exhaust, the paddle operation, the electrical heater and the rear window defroster. The diagnostic test highlighted four fault codes relating to the engine, the transmission and the 
air conditioning. Ms report in January 2022 confirmed that the fault code relating to the 
paddle operation was present but the engine and transmission appeared to be performing as 
intended. M said the fault code required further investigation under workshop conditions and 
it couldnt say it was present or developing at the point the car was supplied to Mrs Y. Since 
then, Mrs Y says a drivetrain fault appears intermittently.
Having considered all these issues, whilst Ms report suggests that most of these werent an 
issue, it does confirm the issue with the windscreen remains outstanding. And it suggests 
the fault code requires further investigation. A further investigation doesnt appear to have 
been carried out. Given Im satisfied that Mrs Y is entitled to reject the car because of the 
windscreen scratch, I see no reason to further comment on these additional issues.
Ive gone on to think about what BMF needs to do to put things right. 
As Im satisfied Mrs Y is entitled to reject the car, BMF should collect the car from her and 
end the agreement with nothing further to pay by Mrs Y. It should also refund her deposit 
contribution of £1,500. BMF should pay Mrs Y 8% simple interest on this amount from the 
date of payment until the date of settlement.  
Ive also considered the impact of these issues occurring with the car on Mrs Y. I can see 
that Mrs Y has been going back and forth with D and BMF since shortly after acquiring the 
car. She has provided evidence to BMF and D and I can see at times this wasnt 
acknowledged and it was re-requested by BMF, despite Mrs Y sending this to it. Mrs Y has 
also described that it has been stressful driving the car with the intermittent lights appearing 
on the dashboard which she says state that it is dangerous to continue driving it. 
Having considered this, Im persuaded Mrs Y was caused distress and inconvenience as a 
result of the issues with the car and because I think the service BMF provided to Mrs Y fell 
short on some occasions. So, I think BMF should pay Mrs Y £200 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ys complaint. I direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
Collect the car at no further cost to Mrs Y;
End the agreement with nothing further to pay:
Refund Mrs Ys deposit of £1,500*;
Pay Mrs Y 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement;**
Pay Mrs Y £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused; and 
Amend any adverse information reported to credit reference agencies about this hire 
purchase agreement.
*If any of the deposit is made up of funds paid through a dealer contribution, then Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd is entitled to retain the proportion of the deposit that is made up of the dealer 
contribution.
**If Blue Motor Finance Ltd considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs Y how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs Y a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman