DRN-3198792
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly 
declined their claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S said that tiles fell off their bathroom wall one night. This broke the tiles and 
damaged the bath. They said they didnt know what had caused the tiles to fall.
Mr and Mrs S made a claim under their home insurance policy with Lloyds for the damage 
the falling tiles had caused. But Lloyds declined their claim as they said thered been no 
insured event. Mr and Mrs S hadnt taken out accidental damage cover with Lloyds. So they 
said they couldnt cover the claim under accidental damage.
So Mr and Mrs S complained to Lloyds. Lloyds issued their final response letter in March 
2021. They didnt uphold the complaint. They said that Mr and Mrs Ss policy provided cover 
for insured events, listed in their policy booklet. And that they couldnt cover the damage to 
the wall or to the bath as no cover was in place. Lloyds said that they couldve covered the 
damage to the bath if Mr and Mrs S had held the optional accidental damage cover on their 
policy. But that the tiles couldnt be covered in any event as no insured event had taken 
place. Lloyds said that if Mr and Mrs S wanted to provide them with a cause of damage 
report which confirmed what had caused the tiles to fall, they would ask their claims 
department to review it.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with this response. So they brought their complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Lloyds had acted 
fairly and reasonably when theyd declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They said that the tiles had appeared to be in good condition 
before they fell. And that nothing had happened to alert them to the fact that they might need 
maintenance. They also noted that the remaining tiles appeared to be in good condition. So 
felt that gradual deterioration could be ruled out. They felt that as no definitive  or even 
likely  cause had been put forward for the damage to the tiling, the claim shouldnt be 
excluded. They felt that the insurance was in place to cover unexpected events like this. 
They also said that they considered that the damage to the tiles and the secondary damage 
they caused to the bath should be considered as a single unexplained and unexpected 
event. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
For any insurance claim to be successful, the policyholder must establish that they have a 
valid claim. In essence, the policyholder must show that an insured event occurred which 
caused damage or a loss. Its not the insurers job to establish the claim on the policyholders 
behalf. If the policyholder is unable to meet this requirement the claim will fail at that stage. It 
is only once the policyholder has established a valid claim that the insurer is required to 
demonstrate that a policy exclusion applies to defeat it. Therefore, until and unless Mr and 
Mrs S have established a valid claim, it isnt Lloyds responsibility to establish what caused 
the tiles to fall off. 
Mr and Mrs Ss policy provided cover for damage caused to their property by a range of 
insured events. The events were listed in the policy and are commonly found in most policies 
on the market. 
The cost of repairing the tiling isnt covered by the policy simply because they fell off whilst 
the policy was in force. Its only covered if Mr and Mrs S can show that the tiles fell off due to 
an insured event. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs S have tried to work out what caused the tiles to fall off. They 
told Lloyds that the back of the tiles were dry, as was the wall they fell off. So they didnt 
know why the tiles had fallen off. Lloyds declined the claim as Mr and Mrs S hadnt shown 
thered been an insured event. But they said that if Mr and Mrs S wanted to provide a cause 
of damage report, theyd ask their claims department to review it. Im satisfied that this is a 
fair and reasonable approach for Lloyds to take.
After Lloyds declined the claim for the tiles as they could find no insured event, they 
considered whether they could cover the damage to the bath. They said that the only way 
they wouldve been able to cover this damage is if Mr and Mrs S had held the optional 
accidental damage cover. But they didnt. So Lloyds said they couldnt cover the damage to 
the bath.
Mr and Mrs S dont agree that their claim should be considered under accidental damage. 
They felt it wasnt an accident, but that it just happened. They feel that although they dont 
know what insured peril the falling tiles should be covered under, theyd seen other similar 
complaints upheld by this service. And that as the terms and conditions of their policy dont 
explicitly rule their claim out, it should be covered. They also said that there was only a 
single incident in their claim  the tiles coming off the wall and damaging the bath.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs S and Lloyds have said and the information theyve 
provided. From what Ive seen, the tile claim was correctly declined as Mr and Mrs S have 
yet to show there was an insured event. As I explained above, its their job to do that, not the 
insurers. The bath damage was also correctly declined as no accidental damage cover was 
in place.
Even if I agreed with Mr and Mrs S that their claim should be considered as a single incident, 
I dont have any evidence to uphold their complaint. This is because until they can show that 
there was an insured event, theres no cover under the policy. But I dont agree that the 
claim should be considered as a single event. The renewal documents Lloyds sent to Mr and 
Mrs S give a clear example of what the optional accidental damage would cover. It said: 
Accidental damage - like a TV failing from a wall bracket. I consider that this example is 
very similar to what happened to Mr and Mrs S. Something which would just happen, with no 
obvious reason for it. So Im satisfied that Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in declining the 
claim. 
I know this decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs S. But Im satisfied Lloyds didnt do anything 
wrong. So I wont be asking them to do anything. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman