DRN-1943136
 
The complaint
Mrs R is representing the estate of the late Mr H. Shes complaining about Liverpool Victoria 
Friendly Society Limited because it declined to pay a claim on his life insurance policy 
following his death.
What happened
In 2015, Mr H took out a term life insurance policy with Liverpool Victoria that was set to pay 
out if he died within the term of 30 years.
 
Sadly, Mr H died in 2019. When a claim was made against the policy, Liverpool Victoria 
declined to pay out because it said Mr H hadnt disclosed relevant information about his 
medical history when he applied. If it had been given the correct information, Liverpool 
Victoria said it wouldnt have covered him. So it cancelled the policy and refunded the 
premiums paid.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He felt Mr H should have 
answered parts of his application differently and was satisfied Liverpool Victoria wouldnt 
have offered him cover if he had. As a result, he said it was entitled to decline the claim and 
cancel the policy. 
Mrs R didnt accept the investigators assessment. In support of her complaint, shes made 
the following key points:
The causes of Mr Hs death werent necessarily related to alcohol consumption.
Alcohol can affect memory and this may explain why Mr H didnt complete the 
application accurately. But she believes he did so to the best of his ability and that 
any error was genuine.
Mr H was required to have a blood test before he was covered so Liverpool Victoria 
were aware of his physical condition.
Liverpool Victoria should be clear to customers that, if they ever go to a doctor, they 
need to record everything as it will be turned against them. Insurers like this will 
never pay and this should be stated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before going any further, I offer Mrs R my sincere condolences for her loss at what I realise 
must still be a difficult time.
When he applied for the policy, Mr H completed an application that included a series of 
questions about his health. In particular, he was asked if hed had any previous disorder of 
the digestive system, liver, stomach, pancreas or bowel, to which he answered no. In 
addition, Mr H was asked about his alcohol consumption and he stated how much he was 
drinking at the time and that this had been higher in the past. He was also asked if hed ever 
been advised to reduce or stop drinking alcohol for medical or health reasons, to which he 
answered no.
In my view, the questions asked were clear and should have been answered differently. 
Liverpool Victoria obtained Mr Hs medical records and these showed he had a history of 
drinking significantly more than he disclosed in the application, and also that hed been 
advised to reduce his intake or stop drinking altogether on a number of occasions. The 
medical records also showed hed suffered from gastroesophageal reflux disease.
Its also important to recognise that Liverpool Victoria has provided a copy of the welcome 
pack it sent to Mr H after receiving his application. This included a copy of the application 
form with the answers given to the medical questions. The covering letter said he should 
check the information carefully and let Liverpool Victoria know if anything wasnt right. The 
application also said:
The information provided in this application summary, is used to decide the basis of 
cover we are prepared to offer you. It is extremely important that you check all the 
information in this application summary is correct.
If when you make a claim we determine that you knowingly gave us false information, 
or deliberately withheld information, then we may not pay a claim, and your plan may 
be cancelled.
By sending Mr H a copy of his application to check, I think Liverpool Victoria made 
reasonable efforts to ensure the information it had, and on which it based its decision to offer 
cover, was correct. And when it didnt receive a response from Mr H, Im satisfied it was 
entitled to believe it was.
When an application doesnt include relevant information in response to a clear question, 
this is known as a misrepresentation. The relevant law, as set out in the Consumer 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), recognises different types of 
misrepresentation and details the actions an insurer can take depending on the type of 
misrepresentation that took place.
I can see Mr H did confirm in the application that he drank alcohol and I dont think he 
deliberately tried to mislead anyone. But if hed taken appropriate care and/or checked the 
application when it was sent to him, I do think he should have given different answers. In the 
circumstances, I think its appropriate to class the misrepresentation as careless.
 
In cases of careless misrepresentation, the law entitles the insurer to restore the position 
that would have existed if it had been given the correct information at the outset. In this case, 
Liverpool Victoria has provided evidence from its underwriters that shows a combination of 
factors, including Mr Hs existing conditions, alcohol consumption and height and weight, 
meant it wouldnt have offered him cover if
it had known the true position. In my experience, given the length of time the policy was to 
cover him, thats in line with what Id have expected an insurer to say.
On the basis Liverpool Victoria wouldnt have offered cover if it had been given the correct 
information, Im satisfied it was entitled to decline the claim and cancel the policy.
In response to the specific points raised by Mrs R:
I appreciate the causes of Mr Hs death werent necessarily linked to his alcohol 
consumption, but thats not a particularly relevant consideration here. The key point is rather that if Mr H had provided accurate information, he wouldnt have been 
offered a policy at all. I dont think it would be fair to require Liverpool Victoria to pay 
out on a policy that shouldnt have existed.
Nobody has suggested Mr H intentionally gave incorrect information. If I felt that were 
the case, I would have classed the misrepresentation as deliberate and Liverpool 
Victoria would have been entitled to keep the premiums paid. 
I note Mrs R says alcohol can affect a persons memory, but no medical evidence 
has been provided to show Mr Hs memory was impaired to this extent at the time the 
application was completed or when it was sent to him to check.
Liverpool Victoria did require Mr H to have a blood test before offering cover, but that 
was only to check certain issues raised by the information disclosed in the 
application. The results didnt provide a full picture of Mr Hs health in the same way 
as a review of his medical records or a full medical examination might have. Based 
on the information he disclosed in the application, the option of requesting his 
medical records or carrying out a more detailed examination werent deemed 
necessary. 
I understand why Mrs R may feel insurers are reluctant to ever pay out, but Im only 
dealing with this complaint. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Liverpool 
Victoria has done anything on this occasion.
 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs R and isnt what she was 
hoping to hear. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Liverpool Victoria was 
entitled to decline the claim on the policy, and I hope the explanation Ive provided at last 
helps her to understand the reasons for that view.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
James Biles
Ombudsman