DRN-2770097
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Claim Easy Ltd (CEL) and the settlement fees they are charging for 
successful payment protection insurance (PPI) claims where the refunds were used to offset 
her arrears.
What happened
In May 2019, Mrs W signed three separate letters of authority (LOA) for claims against the 
same lender, who Ill refer to as Lender B. CEL sent three LOAs as they provided authority 
for three different types of account Mrs W held.
Mrs W signed and returned all three LOAs at the same time. But on the LOA for her 
overdraft claim, she ticked the box to say she had previously been in an IVA. This is 
because Mrs W had been in a trust deed some years earlier and Lender B had been one of 
her creditors. But she didnt tick this box for the other two claims.
As this box was ticked for her overdraft claim, CEL closed this claim down and didnt 
progress it any further. But they pursued the other two claims. They submitted these claims 
to Lender B, and in December 2019 Mrs W received a PPI refund. As Mrs Ws claim had 
been successful, CEL invoiced Mrs W for their settlement fee, which was 20% + VAT of the 
gross refund Mrs W received.
But Mrs W didnt receive a cash settlement from Lender B. The refund was instead used to 
offset Mrs W arrears. Mrs W made CEL she had been in a trust deed previously and CEL 
asked Mrs W to obtain proof the refund had been paid to this deed. And if Mrs W did, CEL 
explained theyd direct their invoices to the trust. But Mrs W was unable to prove this. So 
CEL continued to invoice Mrs W for their fees. Mrs W was unhappy about this, so she raised 
a complaint.
Mrs W complained about the fees CEL were charging. She explained if shed known the 
refund would be used to offset her arrears, she wouldnt have continued with the claims. She 
thought CEL wouldve been aware no money wouldve been paid to her as shed been in a 
trust deed previously and didnt think shed been made reasonably aware. She explained the 
worry of paying CELs fees had impacted her mental health, as she couldnt afford it. So, she 
thought CEL should waive the fees they were chasing her for.
CEL didnt agree. They didnt think Mrs W had made them reasonably aware of her previous 
trust deed as it hadnt been declared on the LOAs or the questionnaire Mrs W completed to 
support her claim. They thought their terms and conditions made it clear their fee would be 
charged if a refund was used to offset arrears. So, they didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong by invoicing Mrs W and thought the fees remained payable. But they offered Mrs W 
£50 to recognise the contact shed received and how this may have caused her upset. Mrs 
W remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to The Claims 
Management Ombudsman, a Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She thought CEL shouldve been 
aware Mrs W had been in a trust deed, which is the equivalent of an IVA in Scotland, as she 
ticked this box on one of the LOAs. As all three of the LOAs related to Lender B, she 
thought CEL shouldve been aware this trust deed would apply to all accounts with that 
lender. Because of this, she didnt think CEL shouldve proceeded with the claims and so, 
she thought CEL should waive the outstanding fees linked to the refunds made by Lender B. 
Mrs W agreed with this outcome.
But CEL didnt. They maintained their view that it was Mrs Ws responsibility to disclose any 
trust deeds shed been under. And they didnt think she had on either the LOA or the 
questionnaire. And as the refund had been used to offset arrears, they thought theyd acted 
in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement Mrs W entered into when invoicing for 
their fees. So, they maintained their view that the fees were fair and remained payable. As 
CEL didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Ive seen the LOAs Mrs W signed when she first instructed CEL. And Ive seen that Mrs W 
ticked the box explaining shed previously been in an IVA, a trust deed in Scotland, on one of 
them. This was for her overdraft claim. And CEL have confirmed they closed the claim 
without progressing it any further because of this. 
CEL have explained that, as the box wasnt ticked for Mrs Ws other claims, they continued 
to progress them. And its not in disputed that the work CEL completed led to the refunds 
Mrs W has received. So, I can understand why CEL feel their fees should be due. Theyve 
secured a refund which is of financial benefit to Mrs W, even though she didnt receive this 
as a cash settlement like she expected. 
And Ive seen the terms and conditions of the agreement Mrs W entered into, which does 
make clear that CEL are able to charge a settlement fee when a refund is used to offset 
arrears. So, I cant say CEL have acted outside of this agreement when doing so. But, as 
well as considering whether CEL acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement, I must also consider whether I think theyve acted fairly and reasonably. And I 
dont think they have on this occasion, and Ill explain why.
Mrs W returned three signed LOAs. And all three of these LOAs were for the same lender. 
So, when she ticked a box on one of them explaining shed been in an IVA, which Ive 
already explained is the same as a trust deed in Scotland, I think its reasonable to assume 
this trust deed is likely to have been for any accounts with the lender; in this case Lender B. 
So, when CEL received a LOA stating Mrs W had been involved in an IVA/trust deed, I think 
it wouldve been fair for them to question Mrs W about this, to understand the scope the trust 
deed had. And I think if they had have done so, theyd have become aware that all of Mrs 
Ws accounts with Lender B were covered by the trust deed. And I think, based on the 
actions they took on the overdraft account where Mrs W did declare the trust deed, they 
wouldve closed the claims without taking any further action. 
And this wouldve meant Mrs W wouldnt be left in a position where shes owes CEL a 
significant amount of fees that shes unable to pay. I understand CEL feel it was Mrs Ws responsibility to provide accurate information about her 
trust deed before they submitted the claims. But I think she did enough to disclose there was 
an IVA/trust deed involved. And I cant see anywhere on the questionnaire where it provides 
Mrs W the opportunity to disclose information about this in any more detail. I think Mrs W 
instructed CEL to act on her behalf as she was unsure about the PPI process and how to 
claim a refund. So, I think CEL were the party who had the relevant knowledge about how a 
trust deed may impact a successful claim and Id expect CEL to ensure there wasnt an IVA 
or trust deed involved in the claims they were submitted. And I think they failed to do so 
reasonably on this occasion.
Putting things right
As I dont think CEL acted fairly, Ive then considered what I think they should reasonably do 
to put things right.
As Ive explained above, if CEL had acted fairly by asking Mrs W for further information 
about the IVA/trust deed when they received the completed LOAs, I think its likely they 
wouldve decided not to proceed with the claims. And if they hadnt, Mrs Ws claims wouldnt 
have been successful, and she wouldnt now be left in a position where she owes CEL fees 
she cant afford. Mrs W has explained how her mental health has been impacted by the 
stress and worry owing these fees has caused her. And I dont doubt this has been the case. 
But I have also considered the financial benefit Mrs W received, and the fact CELs work led 
to this. And I can appreciate why CEL feel its unfair not to receive payment for this work. I 
dont doubt that CEL acted in good faith on Mrs Ws behalf to secure a PPI refund. And I 
dont think they intended to progress claims that would leave Mrs W owing money she 
couldnt afford. But, crucially, I think it was CELs own failure to acknowledge the information 
Mrs W provided on the LOA that led to them completing this work. Had they asked Mrs W for 
more information before starting the claims, I think they wouldve prevented this.
So, to place Mrs W back in the position she wouldve been had CEL not made an error, I 
think CEL should waive the fees they are charging Mrs W for the successful claims against 
Lender B.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint against Claim Easy Limited are 
direct them to take the following action:
Waive all outstanding fees that relate to the successful claims against Lender B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman