DRN-3955428
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Revolut Ltd wont refund transactions he says he didnt make or 
otherwise authorise.
What happened
In September 2022, Mr M was mugged and his phone was taken. Around £900 was then 
spent from his Revolut account.
Mr M explained the muggers had helped him recharge his phone after the battery went 
dead. They talked to him for some time before then taking the phone, having watched him 
entering his phones PIN, which were the same digits as his Revolut PIN. They then took 
control of Mr Ms main online IDs and made payments across several of his financial 
accounts. Those other companies refunded those payments. Mr M had to buy a new phone 
to get access to his Revolut account again.
Revolut held Mr M liable for the payments in dispute. They noted his account had been 
accessed not just with the PIN, but with Face ID too. They found that even after Mr M had 
got his new phone and checked his Revolut account, hed waited 15 hours to tell Revolut 
anything was wrong, which allowed the fraudsters further use of his account.
Our investigator looked into things independently and partially upheld the complaint. They 
found the evidence supported that Mr Ms phone really was stolen. They explained it was 
likely that the fraudsters had changed the phones Face ID before using it to access the 
Revolut app. So they thought Revolut should refund the initial disputed payments. But they 
agreed that Mr M had unduly delayed reporting things, so they thought Revolut could not be 
held liable for any payments after the point Mr M checked his account. They also proposed 
that Revolut pay Mr M £150 compensation for the distress caused, and refund a late fee.
Neither side agreed. Revolut still felt the payments were authorised. Mr M felt he hadnt 
delayed reporting things unduly. The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revoluts technical evidence shows that the payments in dispute used Mr Ms mobile app, 
accessed from his old phone using his PIN and Face ID. But this is not enough, on its own, 
for Revolut to hold Mr M liable  they also need to be able to evidence that Mr M consented 
to the transactions, or that he failed to keep his account safe either intentionally or through 
acting with gross negligence.
I am satisfied from the evidence provided that Mr Ms phone was stolen. He reported this to 
the police straight away, gave them thorough information to trace the people who made the 
payments, the police took on the investigation, and theyve said theyve potentially identified 
the perpetrators. Mr M has also provided substantial evidence of his other accounts being 
taken over, including emails and screenshots of someone having changed his security 
details to lock him out. I can see the other financial institutions involved carried out their own 
investigations, and all except Revolut concluded that Mr M had been defrauded.
There is a plausible point of compromise for Mr Ms Revolut PIN: namely that the fraudsters 
watched him entering the phones PIN before taking the device, and that the digits matched 
those for his Revolut PIN. It is not unusual for fraudsters to learn PINs this way, and it fits 
with the length of time they spoke with Mr M beforehand. Its unfortunately also not unheard 
of for people to use the same digits for different PINs. Mr Ms testimony has been consistent 
and credible across the statements hes given to various organisations and the police, and 
Ive not found a good reason to doubt what hes told us.
Having the phones PIN would also explain how a fraudster could then use Face ID  as 
theyd be able to use the PIN to change the phones Face ID to their own face. I can see that 
before the disputed transactions, the person using Mr Ms old phone was unable to login 
using Face ID. They then repeatedly went into the settings for the Revolut app to disable 
Face ID, then enable it again after some time  at which point they could use it to log in. This 
fits well with the possibility that theyd changed the Face ID for the phone.
Lastly, the transactions follow a clear pattern of fraud, trying various methods to drain Mr Ms 
account quickly.
Taking into account everything thats been said and provided, Im not persuaded that Mr M 
consented to the disputed transactions. So I dont think Revolut can hold him liable for them 
on the basis of them being authorised.
Next, Ive considered the issue of negligence. Mr M was negligent in using the same digits 
for his phones PIN and his Revolut PIN. He does need to make sure he does not do this in 
future. But gross negligence is a much higher standard than normal negligence  it involves 
serious recklessness. So on its own, I dont think Mr Ms use of the same PIN digits was 
grossly negligent. I also cant see that Mr M was deliberately failing to comply with his 
obligations to keep his account secure in a way that was intentional.
However, I can see that Mr M checked his Revolut account after registering the app on his 
replacement phone. Yet he didnt tell Revolut about his account being used without his 
consent until much later. This meant that the fraudsters were able to spend further money.
I do understand that Mr M was dealing with a lot at the time, and going through a difficult 
ordeal. I appreciate he may have been in a more vulnerable position. Ive also taken into 
account his arguments that the most recent payments were declined, and that he couldnt 
remember his exact balance across his different accounts.However, at the point Mr M checked his Revolut account, he already knew that fraudsters 
had his phone, access to his sensitive details, and access to other key accounts of his. And 
he could now see for certain that they were using his Revolut account too, whether the most 
recent payments were declined or not. Even if Mr M didnt remember his exact balance, by 
that point hed lost a substantial amount of money from his Revolut account and the balance 
had been entirely drained. So it wouldve been very clear things had gone wrong. And Mr M 
had a responsibility to tell Revolut things were wrong. It would have only taken moments for 
him to have sent a quick message to Revolut to let them know someone was misusing his 
account, so that they could block any further attempts at fraud.
Because Mr M didnt do this at the time, it allowed the fraudsters to make further spending. 
I cannot fairly hold Revolut responsible for that. Im afraid I think that last spend happened 
because Mr Ms actions crossed over into gross negligence. And even if I didnt find that they 
constituted gross negligence: under the relevant rules, I find that the extra time he waited 
would count as an undue delay in reporting things  which would still mean that I could not 
fairly hold Revolut liable there. So I dont think Revolut need to refund the spending from 
after the point where Mr M checked his account on the new phone.
Ive also thought carefully about how Revolut handled things for Mr M. I understand it was 
frustrating for him that he had to answer questions repeatedly even when they didnt appear 
relevant. And since Revolut wouldnt give him a refund, I understand that Mr M was caused 
some real stress, as well as embarrassment at having to borrow money from people to pay 
his bills. Hes also shown us that he incurred a late fee because of this.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation, to account for 
their error and the impact it had. In terms of the amounts, I have taken into account that it 
was the fraudsters who primarily caused Mr Ms losses here, rather than Revolut. And its 
worth bearing in mind that were here to resolve complaints informally, but not to issue fines 
or to punish businesses. We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, 
and I need to be consistent with those. Taking everything into account, I agree with our 
investigator that £150 compensation is fair in this case. 
Putting things right
I direct Revolut Ltd to:
refund the disputed transactions from before Mr M accessed his account on the new 
phone, totalling £399;
pay simple interest to Mr M on those transactions, at the rate of 8% simple a year, 
payable from the date they were debited until the date theyre returned. This is to 
compensate Mr M for the time he didnt have his money.
refund the £7.50 late fee that Mr M incurred for one of his bills; and-
pay Mr M £150 compensation for the trouble and upset they caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Revolut to take off tax from this simple interest. Revolut must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one. Mr M may be able to 
claim the tax back from HMRC if he does not normally pay tax.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part, and direct Revolut Ltd to 
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman