DRN-3016004
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) didnt reimburse the money she lost 
after paying for an item she did not receive.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that Miss R was the victim of a scam after she made a 
faster payment of £286.50 (this was the cost of the item plus the cost of next day delivery) 
on 28 February 2021. The payment was made through Miss Rs mobile app to a seller on a 
social media platform believing she was purchasing designer trainers.
Miss R was in contact with the seller about the item prior to sending the funds and did ask if 
she could pay by PayPal. The seller told her that this was not possible due to PayPal fees - 
as this enabled it to keep their prices competitive. 
When Miss R hadnt received her item two weeks later and, the seller stopped responding to 
her messages, she realised shed been the victim of a scam and contacted Monzo on 
15 March 2021 to report it. 
Monzo didnt agree to refund Miss R, as it felt that she hadnt taken steps to check who she 
was paying and what she was paying for.
Monzo isnt a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (the CRM Code) but has explained that it is committed to applying the principles 
set out in it. The Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those 
exceptions applies in this case. It says Miss R made the payment without having a 
reasonable basis for believing it was genuine. In particular, Monzo says Miss R ought to 
have done more checks to make sure she was making a legitimate purchase from a 
legitimate seller.
 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Rs complaint and thought it ought to be upheld. 
She didnt believe Monzo had fairly assessed Miss Rs claim under the CRM Code and said 
it hadnt been able to establish Miss R didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was 
making a legitimate purchase from a legitimate seller.  
As Monzo disagreed the case has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I am satisfied that: 
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Miss R 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss R 
lost. 
The money was taken from Miss Rs current account, having first been transferred 
from her savings pot. Monzo should also pay interest on the money it should have 
refunded at the savings account interest rate from the date it declined the claim to the 
date of settlement.
 
Im satisfied that Monzo has not shown that Miss R lacked a reasonable basis for believing 
that the payment was legitimate because:
The seller had over 27,000 followers on the social media platform and numerous 
reviews on purchases from other customers which said items had been received. 
There was a large number of posts showing parcels which further created the 
appearance that the seller received large order volumes, along with photos of the 
parcels at the post office. When looking at the evidence provided of the sellers page, 
Im persuaded the photos posted would have appeared credible when thinking about 
other small retailers operating through social media platforms.
 
The seller had a frequently asked questions page and Miss R discussed with the 
seller the timeframe for an exchange or refund of the item. In addition, next day 
delivery was agreed with the seller which I think added credibility that Miss R was 
dealing with a genuine retailer in the particular circumstances of the case.
Im mindful the sellers page was recommended by a university friend of Miss R. 
And that her experience with the seller was consistent with her experience with 
another seller via a social media platform where she paid for the item to a personal 
account and had no issues. 
Monzo has raised the price of the goods was £280 when the item retails for around 
£650. Ive thought carefully about this. Miss R has told us she knew personal 
shoppers could obtain discounts and that she has a friend who sells trainers online 
for low prices due to bulk buying, and so she wasnt concerned by the low price. 
Monzo in its response to our investigator said the seller didnt indicate it was a 
personal shopper or that it was bulk buying items and therefore, was not a 
reasonable basis for believe it was genuine. However, given the features of the 
scam, which I think understandably added credence to Miss Rs belief that she was 
dealing with a legitimate seller, I can understand why she believed the price was 
reasonable; based on her past experience and positions her friends held. While I 
accept the goods were cheap, taking into account all the circumstances of the scam 
as well as Miss Rs experience of making purchases via social media, I dont find the 
price in and of itself enough to conclude Miss R lacked a reasonable basis for belief.
So with all the above in mind, I dont think, in this particular case that the absence of further 
checks means that Miss R didnt have a reasonable basis for belief that she was paying for 
genuine goods or transacting with a legitimate person.
Putting things right
Monzo will need to pay back £286.50 to Miss R, along with adding compensatoryinterest at the interest rate of the savings account the funds originated from.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Monzo Bank Ltd to:
 
Reimburse Miss R by paying her £286.50; and 
Pay compensatory interest at the interest rate of the savings pot (account) the funds 
originated from, from the date it declined the claim to the date of settlement. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman