DRN-1703673
The complaint
Ms F complains that Leeds Building Society acted unfairly and unreasonably by refusing to 
assist her with taking out a new mortgage product before her current one ended and shes 
required to pay more interest as a result. She wants matters put right, including a 
requirement that products should be offered in branch or by telephone and an extension of 
the product due to end so she can shop around for a better deal.
What happened
Ms F had a buy to let mortgage with Leeds and a product due to end 30 November 2019. 
Ms F wanted to take out a new product to ensure she didnt pay more interest than 
necessary and asked for telephone support. Leeds said that it couldnt give Ms F advice over 
the phone or in branch, but the available products could be viewed online. Ms F said that 
she couldnt install an application onto her phone and using the post caused delay. Ms F 
said that she was being forced to pay more interest when her product ended and there 
wasnt enough time to go to another lender.
Ms F complained to Leeds. It said that buy to let mortgage products were only offered on an 
execution only basis  this meant that the customer chose the product, and the lender didnt 
advise. Leeds said that there was an option to speak to an adviser who could run through 
the products available, but not give advice. Leeds apologised for Ms F initially being told this 
option wasnt available and said it would review the wording of its letters to make the position 
clearer, and noted Ms F did have an appointment booked for early November 2019. It 
offered £100 compensation for any trouble and upset caused by this issue and the costs of 
calls.
Leeds added that when Ms F let it know that she couldnt open the documents sent 
electronically, it sent them by post and there was time for her to choose a new product 
before the current one ended. Leeds also offered to backdate any interest paid on the 
variable rate for a month if there was an unforeseen delay. Ms F moved to a new lender in 
December 2019 as she felt the product Leeds offered was too expensive, and Leeds 
refunded the interest she paid on the variable rate.
Ms F complained to us. Leeds noted that Ms F had managed to take out a new product in 
2017, and knew then Leeds didnt offer advice for buy to let mortgages and how to get a new 
product. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said that a 
lender could decide to only offer products on an execution only basis using its commercial 
judgement. The investigator noted that Leeds letters did refer to speaking to a consultant 
about the options available, but it seems there was confusion about the difference between 
speaking to set out the products available and getting advice. He thought the £100 
compensation offered was fair and reasonable for this failing.
But the investigation pointed out that on 8 November 2019 Ms F was able to speak to a 
consultant, was told about the products available and offered one. He said that it was her 
choice not to accept it and to go elsewhere, but Leeds had acted fairly and reasonably to 
help her, including refunding the extra interest paid. The investigator noted that Ms F had 
agreed to pay exit fees when taking out her mortgage.
Ms F disagreed. She said the costs of moving to a new lender was due to the delays caused 
by Leeds. And she said her complaint should be upheld as Leeds had accepted fault and 
she believed that it would advise her about products in the future when she took out the 
mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Buy to let mortgages are commercial loans; the expectations and requirements on lenders 
dealing with such mortgages are different to those dealing with residential mortgages. The 
core of Ms Fs complaint is that she couldnt have advice from Leeds about which product 
was suitable for her needs, and that there was confusion on this point as she could (and did) 
speak to a consultant about the products available.
Lenders are able to use their commercial judgement to decide not to offer advice, and 
provided that it applies its decision fairly and reasonably to all affected customers, this 
service wont interfere; lenders can also change what they offer to customers again for the 
same reasons. Leeds has decided not to offer advice to buy to let mortgage customers and 
theres no evidence Ms F specifically was treated unfairly or unreasonably compared to 
others. I cant say that its refusal to give her advice is unfair or unreasonable.
But I note that Leeds was willing to allow staff to take Ms F through the products available 
over the telephone. And I also note it accepts that its letters were confusing as it didnt 
explain clearly the difference between giving advice and telling a customer what is available, 
and initially told Ms F she couldnt speak to a consultant which conflicted with the letters. But 
while money never truly compensates for trouble and upset, I think £100 compensation is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, particularly as Ms F is more upset that she 
couldnt have advice at all, something for which I havent found Leeds to be at fault.
And as Ms F couldnt access the information online, it was fair and reasonable for Leeds to 
send the information to her promptly through the post.
I dont think Ms F suffered financial loss due to any failing by Leeds. First, Leeds offered 
(and did) to repay the extra interest for up to one month if Ms F wasnt able to change 
products in time to avoid the variable rate. Second, the reason why Ms F didnt take out a 
new product wasnt due to lack of time but because she didnt like the products available as 
she felt that they were too expensive according to what she told the investigator. It was her 
choice to go elsewhere, but the products available werent affected by Ms Fs wish to be 
advised or the confusion about the support available.
Ms F says that she had to pay exit fees due to her issues with Leeds. I dont think this is 
correct. Ms F had to pay the exit fees because they were part of the terms and conditions of 
the mortgage when she first took it out (having been advised by a broker). She chose to 
leave as she didnt find the products attractive, but this has no connection to any failing on 
Leeds part. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for these fees to be refunded.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Ms F whether to 
accept the £100 compensation offered by Leeds Building Society. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or reject my decision 
before 16 November 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman