DRN-2065826
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim he made on his travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr O had a travel insurance policy with URV, his wife was insured with a different insurer. In 
April 2017 Mr O booked a holiday with his wife and they were due to travel in June 2017. 
However, in May 2017, whilst on a holiday in the UK, Mrs O became very unwell with acute 
back pain. Mrs O was so unwell she was airlifted to hospital, after receiving a number of 
doses of morphine. Mrs O was released from hospital but continued to be unwell and was 
re-admitted to hospital with an acute attack of vertigo. 
Mr O claimed on his insurance policy as they were unable to go on their holiday in June 
2017. The claim was declined by URV because they said the cancellation was linked to 
Mrs Os pre-existing history of vertigo. Mr O says he thinks it was a side effect of the 
morphine Mrs O was given in relation to the first hospital admission. Mr O made a complaint 
to our service about the claim being declined and the length of time it had taken for URV to 
resolve the claim. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt 
think it was unreasonable for URV to decline the claim based on Mrs Os medical history and 
the relevant policy terms and conditions. And she said that the evidence shed been 
provided with didnt suggest that URV caused significant delays in handling the claim. 
Mr O didnt agree and he provided further comments in support of his position that URV had 
delayed the claims process. He asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about Mr and Mrs Os experience in May 2017  its clear that Mrs O 
became very unwell and Im sure it was a frightening and stressful experience for both Mr 
and Mrs O. 
Mr O has made a number of representations about why this complaint should be upheld. But 
Ill focus on those which I think are central to my decision and the outcome of this complaint. 
Declining the claim
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
 
The relevant policy terms and conditions say that URV will cover cancellation if a 
policyholder is unable to travel because a travelling companion is ill or injured. But the policy 
goes on to say that cover is only provided if a policyholder accepts: 
That we can only offer to medically screen and extend cover for existing medical 
conditions to our own policyholders so if any of the following people cause you to 
cancel because of a reoccurrence or complication of a medical condition diagnosed 
prior to booking, you will not be covered: 
A travel companion not insured by us.
A close relative of you or your travel companion.
A business associate of you or your travel companion.
Mr O booked the holiday in April 2017. So the key issue for me to decide is whether it was 
reasonable for URV to conclude that the holiday was cancelled because of a reoccurence or 
complication of a medical condition that Mrs O was diagnosed with prior to booking. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for URV to conclude that it was, for the reasons Ill go on to 
explain. 
Ive reviewed the medical information provided by Mrs Os GP which contains a number of 
references to symptoms including vertigo, dizziness, headaches and migraines from 2015 
onwards. She had a number of consultations with medical professionals which related to 
these symptoms.
I accept that the attack in 2017 was much more severe and Its also possible that it may 
have been linked to the administration of morphine as Mr O has suggested. But, taking into 
account Mrs Os medical history, I dont think it was unreasonable for URV to conclude that 
this was a complication or reoccurrence of an existing condition as there was frequent 
reference to similar symptoms and the condition in the medical notes and history. So, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for them to reject the claim on that basis, particularly given the 
policy terms Ive referred to above.
Delays 
Mr O says that there were delays in URV handling the claim. But Ive not seen persuasive 
evidence that URV was responsible for the delays. Mr O provided two email chains in 
response to the investigators opinion together with a timeline of events. His submissions 
focused predominantly on the earlier part of the claims process. 
Mr O says he submitted his claim in the summer of 2017 and theres a medical consent form 
which is dated around that time. But URV has no record of a claim being submitted at this 
time and Mr O has no evidence to show it was submitted to URV then. So, Ive not seen 
enough evidence to persuade me that a delay was caused by URV.  
Ive also taken into account the emails from March 2018. On the 2 March 2018 Mr O did 
forward information to URV but its unclear whether it included the claim form based on the 
evidence Ive seen. Mr O asked for an update on 23 March and URV responded on the 28 
March 2018 to say they hadnt received a claim form. Mr O replied to say that to the best of 
his recollection hed posted the forms and he only had copies of some  he went on to ask 
for new forms so he could resubmit them. A claim was logged on URVs system in May 
2018. URVs records indicate that the claim wasnt logged until May 2018, which is not long 
after Mr O says he chased up URV by phone.
Overall, I havent seen persuasive evidence that URV caused significant delays in the claim 
being progressed. URV has taken steps to identify whether there were duplicate complaints and has been unable to locate any. So, taking into account the available evidence, I dont 
think I can fairly conclude that there were delays on URVs part during the period that Mr O 
has referred to.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman