DRN-3299897
The complaint
Ms A complains that HSBC UK Bank plc assigned an outstanding debt to a third party and 
didnt contact her before doing so.
What happened
Ms A had a Graduate Account with HSBC. The account was overdrawn. Ms A says that in 
2014 she was experiencing financial difficulties. At that time she entered into an 
arrangement with HSBC under which she agreed to make monthly repayments by standing 
order. She continued to do this from 2014.
Ms A says she contacted HSBC in or about 2016, and subsequently, to inform it of her new 
contact details. She says HSBC told her it couldnt update her details because her account 
was closed. 
In June 2021, Ms A says she received a letter from a third party (M) in relation to the 
outstanding debt. She says HSBC had not informed her it had engaged M. She contacted 
HSBC and told it she wanted to settle the debt by making a payment direct to it. She also 
queried why HSBC hadnt contacted her about these matters. She says M was aware of her 
contact details and there was no reason why HSBC should not have tried to contact her. She 
complained to HSBC.
HSBC said it had now updated all its systems with Ms As contact details. It said it had no 
records of any previous attempts to update her address.
HSBC investigated her complaint. It said her account had been closed in 2014 and in 2021 
the balance was placed with M to work on its behalf. Initially M had acted in its capacity as a 
debt collection agency and HSBC subsequently assigned the debt to M in June 2021. HSBC 
said it could not recall the debt from M. HSBC said it had tried to contact Ms A by telephone 
and by letter in the period prior to June 2021. It had not been successful. It said it was legally 
entitled to sell or place a segment of its business with M. 
In these circumstances, HSBC said Ms A would have to make the outstanding payment to 
M.
Ms A was not satisfied with this response. She referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. She said that HSBC had sold Ms As account to 
M. HSBC had tried to contact Ms A but its correspondence had been returned marked gone 
away. There was no evidence Ms A had tried to update her contact details with HSBC. In 
these circumstances, HSBC was entitled to sell the account. She didnt think HSBC should 
have to take any further action to resolve the matter.
Ms A didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that there is an outstanding debt which Ms A will be required to pay. She 
says she is willing to repay that debt. But, she thinks she shouldnt be required to repay the 
debt to any party other than HSBC. She says that HSBC should have made greater efforts to 
contact her before it assigned the debt to M. If it had done that she says she would have 
repaid the outstanding balance immediately.
In 2014 HSBC defaulted Ms As account. At that time she entered into a repayment 
agreement and she has continued to make the payments since then. She says shes had no 
contact from HSBC over the years. She says that because her account is closed any 
attempts to update her contact details such as her address and phone number, havent been 
accepted by HSBC.
HSBC says it has no record of any attempts having been made by Ms A to update her 
contact details. 
HSBCs records show that in or around 2017 correspondence it sent to Ms As postal 
address was returned marked gone away. Its not clear what action it took, if any, to try to 
get an up to date address for Ms A. Ms A says she also changed her phone number. HSBC 
says that because her account was closed she would have had to contact its Repayment 
Services team to update her details. Ms A wouldve had previous correspondence from that 
team and HSBC says the onus was on her to make sure her details were up to date. 
Ive thought about what both Ms A and HSBC have said here. In circumstances where Ms A 
had stopped receiving correspondence from HSBC I wouldve expected her to contact it to 
update her details. The parties disagree about whether she tried to do this. 
In email correspondence to HSBC dated 17 July 2021, Ms A said shed attempted to update 
her details at HSBC branches but had been told they couldnt update their systems because 
the account was closed. So, she was aware that her contact details hadnt been updated. 
She acknowledges she hadnt tried to phone HSBC because she says she didnt have her 
account details. But, I think its likely that if shed contacted the Repayment Services team, 
with whom shed had previous contact, or if shed explained to HSBC that her account was 
with that team, she wouldve been able to get her contact details updated. 
I say this because, in 2021, after Ms A contacted HSBC and complained about what 
happened, HSBC did update her details. So, Im satisfied, on balance, that if she had 
previously contacted it and provided full details about her account, it would have updated her 
address and phone number. And, having considered everything here, Im not persuaded, 
Ms A did enough to make HSBC aware of her up to date contact details.
When HSBC tried to contact Ms A, in 2021, using the details it held on its records, it wasnt 
able to speak to her.
I can see HSBC still held an email address for Ms A. And, shes told us, she was able to 
access that email account  even though she says she rarely used it. Shes told us that after 
M contacted her in June 2021, she checked the email account and was able to view the 
letter HSBC had sent her a few days earlier. That letter informed her the account had been 
assigned to M.It is the case that where, as here, there is an outstanding debt, HSBC can assign that debt to 
a third party. It didnt require Ms As consent to do that, but there are regulatory requirements 
that apply. So, for example, when selecting the third party to whom the debt is to be 
assigned HSBC is required to carry out robust due diligence and the party to whom the debt 
is assigned is required to give notice to the customer as soon as reasonably possible. 
Having looked at what happened here, Im satisfied, on balance, HSBC was able to assign 
the debt to M. M did contact Ms A to confirm that the debt had been assigned to it and it told 
her about the email HSBC had sent her on 2 June 2021. Ms A was able to access the email, 
six days after it had been sent to her. So, M informed her about the assignment and she was 
then also able to access the letter from HSBC. Having looked at the sequence of events, I 
dont think HSBC did anything wrong when it assigned the debt to M or that it acted unfairly 
or unreasonably. 
Ms A says shes been mentally affected by what happened. She says she wants an apology 
and she wants HSBC to recall the debt from M so that she can make a direct payment to 
HSBC. Im sorry to hear about how this has affected Ms A. But, I havent seen any evidence 
to show that shes experienced any financial loss as a result of the transfer of the debt to M 
or that, because of the assignment, it is more difficult for her to make payments or clear the 
debt if thats what she wants to do. 
Having considered everything here, although I know it will disappoint Ms A, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair or reasonable to require HSBC to recall the debt from M. I dont 
require it to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman