DRN-3132626
The complaint
Mr W complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) didnt provide him with 
suitable support or advice when he found himself in financial difficulties. 
What happened
Following earlier discussions that Mr W had with Halifax in May 2020 and August 2020, he 
again  contacted Halifax in early October 2020 to explain he was still experiencing financial 
difficulties as a result of his wifes serious health problems and needed continued support 
from them. Mr W says after spending a considerable length of time during that telephone call 
in October 2020, waiting to be put through to the correct department, Halifax agreed to 
freeze the payments and interest on his credit card account for three months. 
Mr W says during the agreed payment holiday plan period, Halifax sent letters requesting 
payments to his credit card account despite the agreement in place. In addition, Mr W says 
Halifax were rude to him over the telephone and havent provided him with the support or 
help he needed during this difficult time. Mr W wants Halifax to explain why it hadnt dealt 
with his complaint correctly and to pay him an appropriate amount of compensation for the 
upset they have caused him.
Halifax says it provided support to Mr W and previously waived interest on his credit card 
account. Halifax says as Mr W hasnt agreed to a payment plan, his credit card account has 
been defaulted and  placed with its recoveries team and Mr W now needs to urgently contact 
them or seek independent advice to arrange a suitable payment plan going forward. 
Mr W remains unhappy with Halifax and the way he has been treated and referred the 
matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator explained he couldnt consider Mr Ws complaint about Halifaxs complaints 
process, only the issues relating to the way Mr W was dealt with concerning his credit card 
debt. 
The investigator sympathised with Mr Ws personal situation but felt Halifax had provided the 
level of support he would expect to see. The investigator says he could see no evidence of 
any telephone calls where Mr W says he was rudely spoken to, or any letters between 
November and December 2020 from Halifax, requesting payment of his credit card account, 
as Mr W suggested. 
Mr W wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I was very sorry to learn of the reasons why Mr W found himself in the financial situation he 
now faces, and I can see this must be a very difficult time for him. It would in these 
circumstances inevitably be both upsetting and frustrating for Mr W to have to take the time 
to deal with these financial issues, when his wifes health and wellbeing take priority.  
During the course of the complaint being presented to this service, Mr W has subsequently 
asked for the issue of his credit card account to be the central focus here, given the matters 
relating to his loan accounts have since been resolved. 
So to make clear, as pointed put by the investigator, its not the role of this service to 
scrutinise Halifaxs complaints process or to tell Halifax how it should deal with complaints 
more widely. While Mr W may be unhappy with that  my role is to look at whats fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of a complaint. 
When looking at this complaint, I will consider if Halifax acted unreasonably when Mr W 
asked for support when he experienced financial difficulties in making the due payments to 
his credit card account.
Mr W has made clear to this service that he received conflicting letters from Halifax 
regarding what he needed to pay to his credit card account, despite agreement being 
reached to freeze the interest and payments for an agreed period. Mr W also says that 
Halifax have been rude and unhelpful when dealing with the support he needed and on one 
occasion led him to miss an important meeting.
During the course of looking at this complaint, I have listened to telephone calls between Mr 
W and Halifax, in August 2020 and October 2020. Like the investigator says there are no call 
recordings available of any telephone calls apart from those mentioned above and during the 
calls I have listened to, theres no evidence to suggest Halifax had been rude or unhelpful as 
Mr W says. In the telephone call in August 2020 Mr W discussed the previous Covid 
payment holiday applied for in May 2020. During that call Halifax agree that although the 
interest was correctly charged during the three-month payment holiday, given his personal 
situation, the advisor agreed to refund the interest applied in June, July and August 2020.  
In October 2020 after having been transferred to the correct department, Mr W again 
discusses his financial situation and his wifes poor health and the advisor, after going 
through a detailed income and expenditure profile, agreed to freeze the interest and any 
minimum monthly payment on his credit card account until early January 2021. The advisor 
also pointed out to Mr W that his credit file would be affected by this arrangement and his 
credit card account would be subject to a freeze and block and wouldnt be able to be used. 
The advisor during the telephone call in early October 2020 makes clear this was a 
temporary arrangement, until Mr W heard more about his social benefit payments and 
explained that Mr W would need to contact Halifax towards the end of the three month plan, 
to see what assistance was needed at that point. At the end of the call Mr W thanked the 
advisor and said he understood the arrangements made. 
I can see that this agreement was followed up in writing in a letter dated 7 October 2020 
from Halifax where it goes on to say: As youll still be behind with payments for this account, 
you will need to get in touch with us towards the end of this plan so that we can see what we 
can do for you next.
Although its not clear from the telephone calls I have listened to, I do accept that Mr W may have been passed to different departments adding to the time it took him to eventually get 
through to the correct team. That said I have to take into account this was during the time of 
the Covid pandemic which affected both customers and businesses alike, and its 
reasonable to say this could have played a part here, given the staffing constraints at this 
unprecedented time. 
From the information and call notes I have seen, Mr W had already lodged a complaint to 
Halifax just prior to the help and support provided to him in the telephone call in October 
2020, so I am satisfied that part of his complaint to Halifax had been dealt with.  
From the information I have seen in early January 2021, Mr W again complains to Halifax 
with concerns as to what had been agreed with them, as he says he received letters from 
them requesting payment of his credit card account. Mr W hasnt been able to provide this 
service with any evidence of such letters being sent at this time Halifax have also confirmed 
they have no record of any letters being sent demanding payment on his credit card account, 
while his payment plan was in place. 
Mr W has provided a copy of a letter he received in March 2021, after he complained to this 
service demanding repayment and defaulting the credit card account, but that was due to the 
fact, from what I can see, Mr W never got in touch with Halifax to discuss the next stage of 
the payment arrangements going forward - although he was asked to. I am satisfied this is 
where the confusion and problems may lie. Here, instead of Mr W discussing a realistic and 
affordable payment plan with Halifax prior to the agreement ending, he lodged a complaint 
with this service, although given the difficult personal circumstances here, its not 
unreasonable to understand why that may have happened.  
Taking this all into account, I cant say Halifax have acted unreasonably, after all they 
havent charged interest or demanded any minimum monthly payments on Mr Ws credit 
card account for a substantial period of time. Its worth saying that Halifax were entitled to 
demand repayment of the credit card account if no payment plan was in place or due 
payments were missed, but knowing what we know now, its fair to say I would expect 
Halifax to consider Mr Ws current circumstances as they have previously. That said, its fair 
to recognise that Halifax can only go so far, without a formal agreement with Mr W, either 
directly or via professional support such as debt charities, Mr W may wish to employ. 
So, while Mr W will undoubtedly have other demanding issues to deal with, which I 
sympathise with, it would be prudent now for him to contact Halifax to set up a payment plan 
or any other appropriate alternative arrangements, if that isnt possible.
While Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a practical way 
forward and fair outcome here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman