DRN-3327054
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Santander UK Plc closed her account without reason and didnt 
provide full information following a Subject access request (SAR). Mrs G would like to know 
the reason for the closure and compensation. She would also like to be provided with all the 
documents she has requested following the SAR.
What happened
Mrs G had an account with Santander. She told us she had been a long-standing customer 
of Santander. She also said Santander had requested she provide documents to prove her 
identity, proof of employment and other investments, most recently in March 2020. Following 
a review of her account Santander decided to close her account. They wrote to Mrs G on 
21 February 2020 giving her two months notice of closure and her account closed in May 
2020.
Mrs G was concerned that the closure of her account may have been due to Santander 
losing her documents. So, she made a SAR in June 2020, to confirm to herself that the 
documents hadnt been misplaced. 
Santander provided documents to Mrs G following her SAR. However, Mrs G wasnt 
reassured by the documents provided. Mrs G has said she believes Santander misplaced 
the documents she submitted which provided proof of ID, address and source of funds. She 
has told us Santander had previously lost information she had provided to them, so she 
thinks that is what happened on this occasion. Mrs G wanted Santander to give her copies of 
all the documents they have. She is concerned Santander have left her vulnerable to 
financial crime by misplacing her documents. She also wanted information about the reason 
for the closure of her accounts.
Mrs G complained to Santander. Santander said they had closed the account in line with 
their terms and conditions. They also said they had provided Mrs G with all the information 
they were able to in response to the SAR.
Unhappy with their answer she complained to our service. One of our investigators looked 
into the complaint. He said Santander could decide to close a customers accounts in line 
with the terms and conditions and without providing a reason for the closure. He thought 
Santander had given the right amount of notice. He thought Santander had provided Mrs G 
with a reasonable amount of time to find alternative banking arrangements. He also said that 
Mrs G should contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) if she was unhappy with 
the way the SAR had been complied with by Santander. 
Mrs G was unhappy with the investigators view. She said that she was concerned the bank 
closed her accounts because they lost the documents that she had provided to Santander 
following their request.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G has said Santander havent complied with their obligations under the SAR in so far as 
they havent provided her with all the documents she believes they hold. In particular 
documents she has provided to them previously.
I have seen correspondence from Santander that suggests they are satisfied they have 
complied with the requirements under the SAR. 
In view of these concerns I think the ICO is best placed to establish if Santander have in fact 
complied with the requirements under the SAR.
In relation to the account closure, as the investigator explained its generally for banks to 
decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say 
that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their 
account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. I can see that 
Santander wrote to Mrs G on 21 February 2020 and let her know it was closing her account 
giving her 60 days notice. So, Im satisfied Santander closed the accounts in line with the 
account terms. And gave Mrs G adequate time to open another bank account.
Mrs G has pointed out that she has been a loyal customer of Santander for many years and 
the closure of her accounts has caused her a lot of problems and stress. Im sorry that 
whats happened has caused Mrs G trouble and upset. But its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Ive considered whether Santander acted fairly in closing Mrs Gs accounts. Ive looked at 
the terms and conditions of her accounts and Im satisfied they did. In this case Santander 
closed Mrs Gs account with 60 days notice.  and having looked at these terms and all the 
evidence Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close 
the accounts as its already done. 
I know Mrs G thinks the reason Santander closed her account is because they misplaced 
her documents, having looked at the evidence I havent seen anything to suggest that is the 
case. In any event as Ive mentioned Santanders terms and conditions allow it to give two 
months notice to close an account and they provided this to Mrs G. So, whilst Mrs G may 
have expected to be given the reasons for the closure, Santander isnt required to give a 
specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say Santander has done anything wrong 
by not giving Mrs G this information  as much as shed like to know.
I know Mrs G will be disappointed with my decision, but I cant say that Santander acted 
unfairly when it closed Mrs Gs accounts. 
In addition, I think the ICO is best placed to confirm to Mrs G whether Santander have 
complied with their obligations under the SAR.My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman