DRN-3874139
The complaint
Ms L complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua treated her unfairly when her credit card 
was in arrears.
What happened
Ms L has told us she contacted Aqua in November 2021 after losing her job. Ms L has 
explained she was told Aqua would call her back but no contact was made. Ms L tried to 
speak with Aqua again the following month but has explained another promised call back 
wasnt received. Ms Ls payments in December and January 2022 were missed. 
Aqua sent arrears letters to Ms L and in January 2022 it sent a default notice asking her to 
clear the arrears. The letter explained Aqua would terminate the credit card if no payment 
was received. 
Aqua took the decision to terminate Ms Ls credit card in February 2022 and passed the debt 
to a third party business (M) to collect. Ms Ls told us shes since been contacted by M for 
payment and went on to raise a complaint.
Aqua responded to Ms Ls complaint and agreed to refund three late fees as a gesture of 
goodwill. But Aqua didnt agree it had acted unfairly by terminating the credit card or 
referring Ms Ls account to M. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ms Ls complaint. In its file submission, Aqua sent a 
copy of its contact log but no calls from Ms L were shown. The investigator thought Aqua 
had dealt with Ms Ls complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Ms L asked to 
appeal and said Aqua had agreed a payment holiday but not recorded the call or followed 
through. As Ms L asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ls told us that she thought a payment holiday had been agreed following calls with 
Aqua. But Aqua says theres no record of Ms Ls calls with it or any agreement to a payment 
holiday arrangement. Where the parties of a complaint dispute what happened or what was 
said, we base our decision on the balance of probability. That is, what I consider most likely 
to have happened based on all the available information and evidence. 
Aquas supplied its contact log but it doesnt show any calls from Ms L during the period in 
question. Ms Ls told us she thought a payment holiday had been agreed, but theres no 
record of an agreement of that nature with Aqua. I can see Aqua continued to send Ms L 
arrears letters asking for payment which would normally be suspended during a payment 
holiday.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms L but, on balance I havent been persuaded that Aqua agreed a 
payment holiday. 
Aqua went on to send Ms L arrears letters and a default notice in January 2022. Ms Ls 
confirmed she received correspondence from Aqua around this time but didnt follow it up 
due to other pressures. But Ive read the default notice and Im satisfied it clearly explains 
that Aqua would terminate the credit card if the arrears werent cleared. As the arrears 
remained outstanding beyond the due date, Ms Ms account was closed and passed to M to 
collect.  
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms L as I understand she was going through a particularly 
difficult time. But as I havent found that Aqua acted unfairly in the way it handled her credit 
card I havent been persuaded to uphold her complaint. As Im satisfied Aqua dealt with Ms 
Ls complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman