DRN-4522009
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs S complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) rejected a 
claim for legal expenses insurance cover and about delays in dealing with the claim.
Where I refer to RSA, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr L and Mrs S have legal expenses cover included with their home insurance policy. Mr L 
made a claim on the policy for cover relating to a legal claim he wished to pursue. Although 
the policy is in joint names the claim was made by Mr L and so Ill refer to him throughout.
Mr L had ordered some furniture but when his sofa was delivered, cushions that should have 
been provided with the sofa were not delivered. He wanted to pursue legal action against the 
retailer and made a claim on his policy to cover the legal costs.
RSA referred the claim to one of its panel firms of solicitors to assess. Mr L was unhappy 
with the time being taken to assess the claim and said the solicitors had asked for 
information hed already provided. A different firm of solicitors was then asked to assess the 
claim.
The solicitors said it would not be proportionate to pursue the claim as the costs were likely 
to be higher than the amount Mr L was claiming. So RSA declined cover.
Mr L complained but RSA didnt change its decision. RSA said it couldnt comment on the 
solicitors actions but the case had been passed to a different panel firm after Mr L raised his 
concerns. RSA acknowledged some upset caused to Mr L by the way one phone call had 
been dealt with and apologised for that.
When Mr L referred the complaint to this Service our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. Mr L disagreed and said if the costs were too high RSA should have offered to pay 
him the value of his claim. The investigator considered this but didnt change her view. So 
the complaint has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly and should not unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy provides cover for the type of claim Mr L wished to pursue but only if the claim is 
likely to succeed. Almost all legal insurance policies include terms like this. And since its a 
legal matter whether the case is likely to succeed, thats something the insurer refers to 
solicitors to assess.
RSA passed the claim to one of its panel solicitors to assess. I appreciate Mr L was unhappy 
with the time it took them to consider the claim but RSA isnt responsible for the solicitors 
actions. What Id expect it to do is respond to any concerns a policyholder raises and RSA 
did that. 
The case was passed to another firm of solicitors who provided their assessment promptly. 
They explained that the value of the claim was relatively low and the costs of pursuing it 
would be higher, so even if the claim had reasonable prospects of success it wasnt 
proportionate to pursue. 
Its reasonable for an insurer to rely on legal advice as long as its properly reasoned. And it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect RSA to provide cover where the likely costs would be more 
than the amount being claimed. Im satisfied in this case it was reasonable for RSA to rely on 
the advice it received. RSA explained to Mr L that if he disagreed, he could seek his own 
legal advice, which is what Id expect an insurer to do in these circumstances.
Mr L pointed out that where the costs are likely to be higher the amount in dispute, RSA had 
the option of paying him the value of his claim. Although the policy terms allow RSA to do 
that, its not something Mr L is entitled to but rather something that RSA may consider. 
The policy terms say where the claim is not proportionate to pursue, the most RSA will pay is 
the value of the likely award the court might make. RSA has explained that it was initially 
thought the amount Mr L was claiming was around £1,500 but the legal advice assessed the 
value at £400. RSA had already incurred costs higher than this dealing with the claim and 
obtaining the legal advice so did not consider it should pay a further amount to Mr L. In the 
circumstances I think that was reasonable.
I appreciate Mr L is very upset about the way the claim was assessed and that it wasnt 
covered. But RSA passed it to solicitors and responded to Mr L when he raised concerns. 
RSA identified some poor service given to Mr L during a phone call and apologised for that. 
Its decision not to provide cover was based on the legal advice, was made in line with the 
policy terms and was fair. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman