DRN-1692776
The complaint
Mr K complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (John Lewis) recorded a CIFAS 
marker against his name. CIFAS is the UKs fraud prevention agency. Mr K is also unhappy 
that they wont disclose certain information to him.
What happened
In June 2016, Mr K applied online for a John Lewis credit card. His application was declined 
for reasons I will describe below. In 2019, Mr K discovered that John Lewis had placed a 
CIFAS marker against his name in relation to his 2016 application. Mr K complained to John 
Lewis about this.
John Lewis investigated Mr Ks complaint. During a telephone call on 25 April 2019, a John 
Lewis advisor told Mr K that the CIFAS marker would be removed from his credit file. This 
was also confirmed in an email sent the following day to Mr K. However, in a further letter 
dated 9 May 2019, John Lewis wrote to inform Mr K that upon further investigation, the 
CIFAS marker had been applied correctly to his credit file. John Lewis explained if Mr K 
wanted to discuss matters further, he should contact CIFAS. They also provided Mr K with 
information on how he could refer his complaint to our service.
Mr K questioned John Lewis about why they had changed their decision. He also requested 
a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR). In an email sent on 23 May 2019, John Lewis 
informed Mr K that they were unable to send him the data he requested, as he made his 
credit card application online, and the data they did hold was restricted, so they couldnt 
disclose it.
Unhappy with John Lewis decision, Mr K referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators didnt uphold the complaint. In short, he was satisfied that Mr K failed to 
disclose certain information in his online application in 2016, so John Lewis had acted fairly 
when they had loaded the CIFAS marker. The investigator also thought that although John 
Lewis couldve been clearer in their communication to Mr K, he didnt think this was enough 
to ask them to remove the marker or to pay compensation. Regarding the DSAR, the 
investigator asked John Lewis if he could disclose to Mr K the information he relied on in his 
findings.  John Lewis didnt consent to this, which the investigator explained to Mr K and said 
that CIFAS could provide the information he wanted. 
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators findings, so he asked for an ombudsman to consider 
the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Mr K has made detailed and lengthy submissions about why he disagrees with the 
investigators findings, which Ive carefully considered. In summary, Mr K has raised several 
issues, ranging from the online application in question; to the criminal standard of proof not 
being satisfied when the CIFAS marker was loaded; and from the non-disclosure of 
evidence; to John Lewis initially confirming they would remove the CIFAS marker.
Mr K has said that the standard of proof that needs to be satisfied for a CIFAS marker to be 
loaded is: the same standard of proof applied in the criminal courts to secure a fraud 
conviction. That is, beyond a reasonable doubt. Having considered this, Im not inclined to 
agree. I say this because the standard of proof that needs to be met to load a CIFAS marker, 
is not beyond a reasonable doubt  in fact, the standard is lower. A business can load a 
CIFAS marker if they have reasonable grounds to believe a fraud has been committed or 
attempted, which they could report to the police to investigate. 
Im satisfied that John Lewis had reasonable grounds to believe this. Based on the evidence 
Ive seen, when Mr K made his online application in 2016, he provided incorrect information 
about his residence and there was a benefit to him in doing so. I think, John Lewis would 
have had grounds to report matters to the police and as such I think they acted fairly when 
they reported this to CIFAS.
I acknowledge the fact that John Lewis incorrectly told Mr K over the telephone and in writing 
that they would remove the CIFAS marker against his name. However, this error does not 
justify the removal of the marker, as I think it was loaded correctly. Im also not persuaded 
that this warrants financial compensation. I say this because although John Lewis had made 
an error, I cant see that it resulted in any financial loss for Mr K. Im also not persuaded that 
the impact of this incorrect information caused Mr K distress or inconvenience to the extent 
that compensation would be appropriate. John Lewis also recognised their error and 
confirmed to Mr K that the CIFAS marker had been loaded correctly promptly.
In relation to Mr Ks DSAR, he is unhappy that John Lewis have said that the data they hold 
is restricted, which theyre unable to disclose. Its not our role to fine or punish a business for 
deciding not to disclose certain information when considering a DSAR. If Mr K is unhappy 
with what John Lewis has said, he is free to take this up with the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject 
my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman