DRN-3544560
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) through its mortgage advisor 
(MA), didnt advise them that they could secure a particular mortgage product until it was too 
late. They feel that if they had been advised correctly they would have been able to secure 
the mortgage product they wanted at a much better rate, and as they couldnt, they have 
sustained a loss of around £2,800.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D called Barclays on 12 October 2020 to arrange an appointment to discuss 
their mortgage requirements. They held a buy to let mortgage with Barclays and it was 
coming to an end on 31 October. An appointment was made for them for 14 October and 
when they met with the MA they were given a number of options.
One product which Mr and Mrs D were keen on, was a two-year tracker, with a 1.14% 
interest rate, but was only available if the loan to value (LTV) on the property was 65%. That 
meant that in Mr and Mrs Ds case they would be required to make an overpayment to their 
account of around £23,500. However, if they waited until the 20 October, after their next 
mortgage payment was made, the overpayment they would be required to make would 
reduce to around £22,500. 
Mr and Mrs D decided to wait until after 20 October, but when they next met with the MA on 
22 October, the 1.14% interest rate product they were after was no longer available. 
Barclays did have a product available with a 1.59% interest rate.
Mr and Mrs D say that the MA didnt advise them, on 14 October, that they could have 
secured the product with the better rate of 1.14%, and if he had, then they would have done 
so before 20 October. As a result, Mr and Mrs D feel that they are going to lose out by 
around 2,800 over the two-year period.
Barclays dont agree with Mr and Mrs Ds recollection of what was said on 14 October. 
Barclays say the MA advised Mr and Mrs D that the mortgage rates could change at any 
time and that he also advised that they could secure the 1.14% rate product if they wanted to 
but that would mean they would have to make an overpayment to reduce their balance to 
meet the 65% LTV. Barclays say Mr and Mrs D explained it would take a little time to get the 
money together to make such a payment and decided to wait until after 20 October in order 
to reduce the amount of the overpayment required. Barclays say the MA also carried out a 
detailed calculation on 14 October to work out what amount Mr and Mrs D would be required 
to pay before 20 October in order to get the better rate.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with Barclays final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Barclays hadnt 
done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree and 
asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. Having done so, I am satisfied that there was a 
telephone appointment arranged for 14 October 2020 and which went ahead. I know that 
this was initially disputed, but screen shots Mrs D submitted bear out the creation of the 
appointment, and although they dont specifically refer to a telephone appointment, 
subsequent communication from Barclays to our investigator supports that view. In addition, 
Barclays final response letter also confirms there was a call on 14 October. 
The next question is what was said at that meeting. Barclays say the meeting wasnt 
recorded, because at the time in question all calls made by branch MAs were from 
unrecorded mobile phones. There is no evidence therefore of the conversation. All that 
remains, evidentially, is the MAs recollection, and Mr and Mrs Ds. These two recollections 
differ and whilst I am certain that both parties believe their own accounts to be the correct 
version, they both cant be right.
What I do know is that the MA carried out a detailed calculation to ascertain the level of 
overpayment which would be required at that time. It is more likely than not that the MA did 
that so Mr and Mrs D would know what the overpayment was at that point in time  in other 
words before 20 October. Mr and Mrs D accept that this calculation was done as they refer 
to it in their written complaint to this service, and they acknowledge that they were told the 
overpayment would be less if they waited until 20 October. I think this provides a reasonable 
motivation for anyone therefore to wait until the 20 October in order to pay less. In fact, when 
I read the complaint it reads very much as though Mr and Mrs D agreed to wait until 20 
October.
The MA also states that Mr and Mrs D said it would take a while to pull the funds together 
and the investigator referred to this in their view. Mr and Mrs D have not disputed this. The 
14 October was a Wednesday and 20 October was a Tuesday, meaning that excluding 14 
October, there were 3 working days before 20 October. All of this lends weight to the 
likelihood that Mr and Mrs D did decide to wait and take that short time to put together the 
funds they would need.
The crux of the complaint then becomes did the mortgage advisor tell Mr and Mrs D that if 
they wanted the 1.14% product they would need to apply for it there and then in order to 
secure it, or did he forget to do that leaving them to believe that the product would still be 
available in a weeks time. I note that Mr and Mrs D were applying for a buy to let mortgage, 
which indicates that they were not financially nave and so it is reasonable to find that it is 
more likely than not that they would be aware that at any point in time a business like 
Barclays might decide to remove one of their products or the interest rate might change. So, 
I do find that Mr and Mrs D would know that in not applying for the product on 14 October 
and leaving it for a week that they would be taking a risk that the product might become 
unavailable. And I also find that it is likely that the reason the MA performed the calculation 
as he did, was to provide Mr and Mrs D with the information as to the level of the 
overpayment they would be required to make there and then, so that they could decide 
whether to secure the product. Instead, having received that information they decided to wait 
for a week and thus took the risk the product might be withdrawn from the market as it was.
I therefore think Mr and Mrs D are mistaken as to their recollection of what was said on 
14 October and it is more likely than not that the MA did tell them that the 1.14% product might become unavailable and the only way to secure it was to apply at that time, but they 
chose not to. 
So, although Mr and Mrs D will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say 
Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman