DRN-3039548
The complaint
 Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (first direct) restricted his
Accounts. 
What happened
 Mr A had two accounts with first direct, one of which was a joint account. They were in 
credit. He entered an IVA in 2020. On 28 November 2020, first direct wrote to him 
regarding the IVA. On 3 February 2021, Mr A tried to make a debit card payment for 
£65.04 but couldnt. His access to internet banking was also blocked. On 4 February 2021, 
he could make payments again, and his internet banking was unblocked to the extent he 
could see his accounts.
Mr A complained. The letter hed received from first direct (dated 28 November 2020) said 
that he could use his accounts as normal as they were in credit. He did have a credit card 
with a debit balance, but this was repaid. His account was been blocked by first direct in 
error. This had cause him a lot of concern and stress. He couldnt make payments or see 
information on his accounts. First direct hadnt given him any notice or advised him that 
his accounts would be frozen. Hed spent a long time on the phone trying to sort things out 
 and they hadnt called him back as promised. They said theyd written to him on 3 
February 2021 - but no letter was received. He felt that first directs response was 
inadequate and he rejected their offer of £150 compensation  he wanted £500.
First direct apologised and said theyd made an error  Mr As accounts shouldnt have 
been stopped. Feedback for training and coaching purposes would be provided to the staff 
whod made the error. They offered Mr A £50, and then increased this to £150.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said first directs offer of £150 was fair. 
Mr A hadnt provided any evidence of any financial impact that the block caused him.
Mr A asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
 
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Ive listened to the five main calls between Mr A and first direct on 3 February 2021 and 4 
February 2021  and I take a different view to our investigator, who hadnt listened to the 
calls. I agree that first direct made an error  but also, the calls reflect that they had several 
chances to sort things out for Mr A  but they didnt. This made worse their initial error in 
blocking the accounts.
I looked at first directs processes for dealing with accounts where a customer has entered 
an IVA. They are clear  where the accounts are in credit (as Mr As were), they need take 
no action. The accounts an continue to run as normal  but no borrowing is allowed. First 
direct wrote to Mr A on 28 November 2020 to say this. The letter said We have received 
notification that you have entered into an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) Having 
reviewed your existing 1st Accounts we are pleased to allow you to continue using these 
accounts.
But on 3 February 2021, Mr A found that he couldnt make a debit card payment for an 
online purchase. Also, he couldnt see his accounts on internet banking  this had been 
disabled also. So  he had no idea what was going on.
On the calls to first direct on 3 February 2021 and 4 February 2021 I sensed Mr As 
frustration and concerns on each call. And  first direct couldnt sort things out for him 
effectively, despite the error theyd made. And  its for these reasons that Im persuaded 
that a higher award of compensation is justified here.
He was passed between departments and had to repeat his problems each time. The first 
two calls couldnt tell him what had happened. The third call handler said she thought the 
account had been blocked because of the IVA but didnt know why and said, Im not the 
person to deal with it. Two call backs were promised  and they didnt happen. By the end 
of 3 February 2021, after four material calls  Mr As situation still hadnt been resolved. 
He was promised a call back at 9.30 the following day  this didnt happen, and he called 
first direct again at 11.30.
On the call on 4 February 2021  Mr A said hed made a debit card payment that morning, 
so he thought things had been resolved. But on this call - which had been lined up as a 
call to sort matters out  the call handler initially said that first direct were entitled to freeze 
Mr As credit balance accounts because of the IVA  so this was still wrong. She couldnt 
say the it wouldnt happen again  so she couldnt resolve Mr As concerns. Then, later in 
the call, she admitted first direct had made an error and he could make a complaint. And 
at this stage, Mr As internet banking was still only in view only mode  so it hadnt been 
sorted out either. She then passed him to another department to resolve this aspect.
Mr A says he didnt receive any notice of the freeze on his accounts  and this was indeed 
the case. While its down to first direct to decide their business practices, I wouldve 
thought a text message to say what was to happen, and why  wouldve been helpful. Or  
even one to ask Mr A to get in touch.
First direct say they wrote to Mr A on 3 February 2021  Mr A says he didnt receive these 
letters. We havent asked to see these letters  because I dont think it changes to 
outcome of this complaint.
Mr A has said he wants to see the evidence of how first direct dealt with the staff 
feedback that they promised  this isnt something that this service can insist on  
we arent the regulator of first direct, and we cant get involved in such issues as 
those  its for the business to sort out.
I agree that Mr A hasnt brought forward any evidence of loss  he mentioned on one call 
that he had to delay a payment by a day  but even so  in the circumstances of this case, 
I think a higher amount of compensation is justified, and I agree with Mr A that this should 
be £500. This is towards the upper end of what we would normally see for what happened 
here, but I think its right in this case.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr A agreed with my findings. And so did first direct.So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 As both Mr A and first direct agreed with my findings in the provisional decision, I wont be 
departing from it and for the reasons I gave in it. So  my final decision is that first direct 
must do what I recommended.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct must:
Pay compensation of £500 to Mr A for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman