DRN-2824890
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited dealt
with his claim under his motor policy following an accident.
Mr P is represented by his wife Mrs P who is also a named driver on his policy.
What happened
A lorry drove into Mr Ps stationary car, damaging it on 3 June 2019. Mr P made a claim to
AA who authorised its approved repairer to repair it. Sadly, this approved repairer didnt
repair Mr P car competently and Mr P claimed it caused further damage, which then caused
several more issues.
AA agreed to have another repairer to fix the car which then obviously caused further delays.
AA had given Mr P the use of a hire car when all this was going on. There were issues with
this as Mr and Mrs P wanted to go on holiday and there was a lack of clarity as to whether
they could do so in the hire car. Mr P said that as a result they lost the chance of the holiday
they had planned. Mr P also said he lost considerable earnings trying to deal with all this.
Mr Ps car was eventually repaired satisfactorily in September 2019.
AA agreed its service fell below a reasonable standard and paid Mr P £600 compensation. It
said there was no evidence to show a loss of earnings for Mr P so it couldnt consider them.
It also said because there was no booking for any holiday before the accident it couldnt
consider this either. And it said the hire car was available throughout the time period.
Mr P remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of the view
AA should pay a further £700 compensation. AA disagreed so Mr Ps complaint was 
been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 April 2021 and I said the following:
Essentially this is a complaint about the amount of compensation AA has paid as I 
agree without evidence of actual loss of earnings by Mr P, as in a verifiable loss of 
income, I dont consider that its reasonable to expect AA to recompense for that. 
Further I consider that without evidence of a pre-booked holiday, such expenses as 
Mr P claimed in relation to the loss of any holiday likewise shouldnt be paid by AA 
again simply because of the lack of evidence detailing any loss.
There is no doubt this wasnt a straightforward claim at all and initial repair of Mr Ps 
car by AAs approved repairers was very unacceptable, meaning the cars eventual 
repair was excessively delayed. This certainly caused unwarranted distress, 
inconvenience and upset. Further its clear there was a lack of clarity over whether 
Mr P could take the hire car abroad for a holiday.
And it was very distressing that one of AAs advisers had numerous telephone calls 
with Mrs P but because she used her mobile phone these werent recorded, which 
meant all the promises of action werent properly recorded when this adviser left the 
employ of AA. Obviously, that shouldnt have happened either.
My power to award compensation comes from our rules namely DISP 3.7.2 R of the
regulator's handbook which says we can award fair compensation that's a 
proportionate reflection of the impact a business's actions (or inaction) had on their 
customer. I have no power to fine or punish businesses, the compensation to be 
awarded in this case is solely for the distress, frustration and inconvenience in not 
having a car repaired properly and the ongoing distress of waiting for the car to be 
repaired plus trying to get on with daily life to include going on holiday during the 
summer.
When deciding whether or not to award compensation, and if so, how much, I think 
about the impact a business actions or omissions have had on the individual(s) 
involved. AA admitted its service to Mr P was well below its desired standards and it 
ultimately paid him £600 compensation. That level of compensation is within our 
substantial bracket as its over £500. And I think its a reasonable amount of 
compensation to pay in these circumstances.
That's because while I understand how frustrating Mr P found it that he was denied 
the benefit of his own car, and that this was made worse by some of AAs other 
mistakes, I think £600 fairly reflects the impact of that frustration. And I note that AA 
ensured Mr P was kept mobile throughout the long saga of getting Mr Ps car 
repaired. I consider that to be a very significant part of reducing the inconvenience 
this was causing Mr P.
So, I dont consider its reasonable to ask AA to pay a further £700 as that would 
make the total compensation £1,300. That would take the compensation sum into the 
bracket where we think a business mistakes have caused far more severe issues 
for the individual. I don't think thats the case here. And it might help if I explain that 
issues with delayed and/or substandard repairs are a fairly common complaint about 
motor insurers. So, we have a lot of experience in dealing with such cases and 
determining levels of compensation appropriate to address them.
Further, I think a total of £1,300 would be more akin to fining or punishing AA rather 
than compensating Mr P for the inconvenience of chasing up the repairs and trying to 
see if they could go on holiday. I understand and accept Mr and Mrs P wanted to go 
on holiday, but it wasnt booked in June at the time of the accident, which makes a 
significant difference in my mind as to the extent of the inconvenience then 
subsequently caused.
Its always distressing being in an accident and being without a car as a result, but 
AA didnt cause this accident and it ensured Mr P was kept mobile in a hire car. I 
think the substantial award of £600 compensation already paid by AA to be adequate 
in these circumstances. In fact, its certainly more than I would have awarded, had 
AA not paid any compensation at all.
AA accepted my provisional decision. However, there was no response from Mr P despite 
reminders.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given AA accepted my decision and Mr P made no further comments, I see no reason to 
change my reasoning as set in my provisional decision in not upholding this complaint.My final decision
So, for the reasons detailed above, its final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman