DRN-4268376
The complaint
Miss B has complained about a secured (second charge) loan she held with Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax. Halifax wrote off the remaining debt in November 2022 and 
Miss B thinks Halifax should refund her interest she says shes overpaid.
What happened
Miss B took out this loan in June 2004. The loan agreement Miss B signed shows she 
borrowed £25,000 over a 25-year term at a monthly interest rate of 0.510% (variable). This 
gave an initial monthly payment of around £160. There was an additional amount paid each 
month towards a payment protection insurance policy but that doesnt form part of this 
complaint so I wont make any further mention of that.
Some payments were missed over the years, and other payments were made late. The last 
payment Miss B made to the account was in December 2020 at which time the balance 
stood at around £11,700.
In November 2022 Halifax wrote off the outstanding debt of around £12,400.
Miss B complained to Halifax, saying she was due a refund of interest shed paid over the 
term of the loan. 
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. It said interest had been calculated daily and added to 
the account monthly in line with the terms and conditions of the account, so any interest 
already added to the account before the loan was written off had been correctly charged. It 
said it had made a commercial decision not to require Miss B to pay the £12,400 she still 
owed it.
Miss B referred her complaint to our service and it was looked at by one of our Investigators. 
Our Investigator said interest had been charged monthly on the loan so, at the point the loan 
was written off, no interest had been added to the debt in advance. She said the interest 
rebate Miss B seemed to be referring to as part of the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004 isnt applicable as that is for loans where the interest due over the whole 
loan term is added to the debt at the start, so some is refunded if it is paid off early.
Miss B didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
I think at the crux of this complaint is a misunderstanding about how Miss Bs loan interest 
was calculated. To try to help I will first explain, in more general terms, about how loan 
interest can be calculated. I will then talk about Miss Bs specific loan.
There are two ways the interest can be calculated on loans like this:
Option one  which is how Miss Bs loan worked
Miss B had a daily interest loan so when she made a payment her interest was calculated 
the following day based on that new lower balance; thats the daily interest element. 
The easiest way to think about this is using an example of a customer with a loan of £25,000 
and a contractual monthly payment of £160 (all figures are rounded and approximate, and 
just for illustrative purposes):
An opening balance of £25,000.
Month one £135 goes to cover the interest, which leaves £25 to go to repay the debt. So 
the loan balance is now £24,975.
Month two the payment stays the same, so they still pay £160. As the balance is lower, 
£134 goes to cover the interest, leaving £26 to reduce the debt. The balance is now 
£24,949. 
That would then continue throughout the life of the loan. The interest is added each month 
based on what the balance has been on a daily basis throughout that month. That is how 
Miss Bs loan worked.
Based on the original loan agreement, if Miss Bs loan had run for its full 25-year term and 
shed made all her payments in full and on time, she would have paid around £49,100 in 
loan payments (including interest).
Option two  which was not how this loan was calculated
The early settlement rebate Miss B has mentioned relates to loans that have been worked in 
a different way. Some lenders added all the interest onto the loan upfront. Using the same 
figures as an example (so a customer borrowing £25,000 with a contractual monthly 
payment of £160), instead the lender would have used an opening balance of £49,100 (that 
is, the total amount the lender expected the customer to pay over the life of the loan).
A loan where all the interest is added on day one would, instead of the above, look like the 
following:
An opening balance of £49,100 (rather than £25,000).
Month one the full £160 comes off the balance, so the loan balance is now £48,940.
Month two the payment stays the same, so they still pay £160. The full £160 again 
comes off the balance, so the loan balance is now £48,780.To compare
In both scenarios, if the loan runs for the full term and all payments are made in full and on 
time, the customer will end up paying the same amount and both will end with the loan paid 
off at the end of the 25-year term. 
The difference comes where a consumer (or in this case the business) decides to end the 
loan early. 
In the first example (which is like Miss Bs loan) as the interest due to that date has been 
added each month when it fell due then an early settlement rebate calculation isnt needed 
as the loan balance at the time of settlement doesnt include any extra interest that has been 
added but that wasnt yet due. So if the loan balance is £17,000 then the consumer pays 
£17,000 to redeem the loan.
In the second example there would be an early settlement rebate calculation because the 
loan balance includes all the interest due over the entire term of the loan, so the business 
would need to take into account in its redemption statement calculation a rebate of the 
interest that had been added but will now never fall due as the loan has been repaid early. In 
this instance the loan balance might be £37,000, but of that £20,000 is interest that was 
added at the start but represents future interest at the point of redemption. The business 
would carry out an early settlement rebate calculation when generating a redemption 
statement and that would show the £37,000 balance, the £20,000 interest rebate and would 
ask the consumer to pay the £17,000 difference to redeem the loan.
Again, the consumer pays the same amount, it is just the method of calculation to get there 
that differs.
Miss Bs loan specifically
The starting point of this complaint is that Miss B borrowed £25,000 and agreed to pay that 
sum back, plus monthly interest at a rate of 0.510% (variable). As an example, in January 
2010 Miss B paid around £132 towards her loan and of that £65 was interest. That means, 
using that January 2010 example, Miss B was reducing her loan balance by around £67 a 
month. As Ive explained above, each month Miss B made a payment towards her loan a 
little more of her payment would go towards reducing the balance and a little less would go 
towards paying the interest. 
At the point Halifax wrote off the balance the debt stood at around £12,400. As that balance 
only included interest that had already fallen due before that time, there was no need for an 
interest rebate calculation to be undertaken. Thats because the balance didnt include any 
future interest amounts.
Halifax didnt have to write off the balance of Miss Bs loan. Had it not done so Miss B still 
would have owed £12,400 in November 2022 and that balance would have increased every 
month with the addition of the interest due. As the loan was secured on Miss Bs property 
Halifax could have looked to take legal action, potentially to seek possession of Miss Bs 
property. 
When Miss B took out this loan she agreed to pay interest on the amount she owed, up until 
the point the loan was repaid. That interest was always due, and there are no grounds for 
me to order Halifax to refund any interest she did pay between 2004 and December 2020; 
and she didnt pay any interest after that point as she stopped making her payments, and 
Halifax wrote off everything after that point.I can see how strongly Miss B feels about this, but Halifax hasnt overcharged her any 
interest and, in fact, instead wrote off around £12,400 that she fairly owed it. Having 
considered everything very carefully there are no grounds for me to uphold this complaint.
I can see that Miss B has raised some other points as part of our investigation. This decision 
only relates to the closure of her secured loan. If Miss B wants to complain about any other 
issues then, as our Investigator explained, she will need to raise them with the business 
directly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman