DRN-2081870
The complaint
Ms H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1995 at the same time as Ms H 
applied for visa and mastercard credit cards. It gave her accident, sickness and 
unemployment protection. And it included some life cover. Ms H recalls she applied by post, 
the bank says the evidence shows it could have been a postal or branch application. I have 
reviewed it as a branch sale as this puts greater obligations on the bank in terms of that it 
had to do as part of the sales process.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms H disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays no longer has a copy of Ms Hs policy so Ive relied on one from the nearest 
available date. 
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Hs complaint, Ill explain why.
Ms H says the PPI was added without her knowing. But on Ms Hs credit card 
application form she ticked the Yes box indicating that she wanted to take out PPI. 
And the option to decline it was set out with equal prominence. So, Im satisfied 
Barclays made it clear the PPI was optional and Ms H agreed to take it out. I can 
understand she might not recall this given how long ago the sale was. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Ms H so it had to check if it was suitable for her. I 
think it was based on what Ive seen about her circumstances at the time. Ms H told 
us she was entitled to three months full pay if she was sick and redundancy pay, but 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to this for each successful claim for up to 12 
months. She said she had a death-in-service benefit too, but that offers a different 
kind of protection and wouldnt help with monthly credit card repayments in the same 
way as PPI. Ms H also told us she could get interest free loan from a discretionary 
family trust. We asked for more detail about this but received no response. But based 
the available evidence I cant fairly conclude it was suitable alternative protection  it 
doesnt seem it was wholly within her control, or that her access to it was guaranteed. 
Overall I think the PPI would have been useful for Ms H if she was sick, had an 
accident or lost her job.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ms H chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it 
unlikely Ms H wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance I think she would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman