DRN-3312399
The complaint
Mrs R is complaining that Lex Autolease Ltd (Lex) are wrongly invoicing her for three 
months payments after she cancelled her hire agreement with them early on the 
understanding there was nothing more to pay. She says the payments are for a payment 
holiday she didnt ask for.  
What happened
Mrs R entered into a hire agreement with Lex at the end of 2016 for a car. The agreement 
duration was 48 months. In March/April 2020, a payment holiday for three months was set 
up, meaning that monthly payments due to be taken in April/May/June 2020 were deferred. 
In October 2020, Mrs R contacted Lex to discuss them collecting the car. They explained 
that there was 2 months to run on the agreement and explained terminating the agreement 
early would likely be chargeable. Lex confirmed however that if Mrs R waited until after 15 
November 2020, there wouldnt be any charges to terminate the agreement early from that 
point.  
Following this phone call, Lex sent over a termination quote to Mrs R, and she signed and 
returned it and arranged for collection of the car on 17 November 2020. On 20 November, 
Lex emailed Mrs R telling her that repayment of her deferred payments was now due, and 
that they would take the three payments at the end of November 2020, December 2020 and 
the final payment in January 2021, unless she contacted them and preferred to pay them as 
a lump sum. 
Mrs R called Lex on 24 November 2020 to complain, saying that shed been told there were 
no further charges to terminate her agreement. Lex responded to this complaint in 
December 2020 and didnt uphold her complaint. She asked them to locate further telephone 
calls shed had with them and they updated their response in January 2021 to confirm theyd 
found and listened to two further calls and were still not upholding the complaint. 
Lex said that shed accepted the payment holiday request and confirmed these payments 
would be deferred until the end of her contract when they needed to be paid. They also 
confirmed that the quote they had sent after the phone call in October said that the quote 
assumed all invoiced rentals had been paid. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs R brought her complaint to our service. An investigator here 
investigated her case and did not uphold it. They said that they had seen evidence that Mrs 
R requested financial support during the Covid-19 pandemic and had been provided the 
three month payment holiday, and shed had use of the car during that period without paying 
for it. They felt it was fair therefore that she paid for this use. 
They also confirmed that the phone call in October 2020 did not specify that the payment 
deferrals would need repaying, but that the quote sent on after that call did confirm that the 
quote assumed all invoiced rentals had been paid. On this basis, they felt it was fair for Mrs 
R to have to make these payments, and they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs R didnt agree with this view and asked for an Ombudsman to review the case and 
make a final decision. She said that she wasnt made aware of needing to pay the deferred 
payments on the call in October or on the invoice/quote supplied after that call, so she 
shouldnt have to pay this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, let me just deal with Mrs Rs comment when she raised the complaint with us that 
she didnt ask for a payment holiday and Lex decided to put her on this. The beginning of the 
Covid-19 pandemic was a difficult period for lots of businesses, as they tried to operate with 
staff working from home and customers tried to adapt to changes in their lifestyle and often 
income. 
Lex have provided an email from Mrs R sent on 30 March 2020 where she said she was out 
of work due to covid-19 and wondered if she could defer her payments. They replied on 7 
April 2020 offering a payment holiday of three months, meaning they wouldnt collect any 
direct debits until July 2020. This email confirmed that if she agreed to this, her deferred 
payments would be invoiced at the end of her contract, meaning she might have to pay 
invoices after she had returned the vehicle. 
Lex have also confirmed that she signed to accept this. On balance, I am satisfied that Mrs 
R requested the payment holiday, was given the relevant details about these deferred 
payments being due at the end of the agreement, and accepted this. 
Ill move on to October/November 2020 now, and the request to terminate the agreement. At 
the time she called (19 October 2020) the agreement had almost reached its conclusion.  
During the call, it was explained that if she terminated before 15 November 2020, she would 
have to pay a charge, but after that, there was no cost to give the car back. It appears that 
the last scheduled regular monthly payment would have been paid by this point. 
Mrs R feels that because in this call on 19 October 2020, she wasnt specifically told about 
the payment holiday deferred payments she would still have to pay, its unfair. If this was the 
only communication she received, I might agree with this. 
However, it wasnt the only communication. Shed already been sent an explanation in April 
2020 that the three months deferred payments would need paying at the end of the 
agreement. I dont think it would be reasonable for Mrs R to assume she didnt need to pay 
these anymore because they werent specified on one phone call. 
On top of this, following the call in October 2020, she was sent an invoice/quote confirming 
the early termination costs, which she accepted. This quotation states:
Please note, these quoted values assume that all invoiced rentals have been paid and the 
vehicle will be returned in the corresponding month. 
Ive gone on to think about fairness here. Mrs R had use of the car until 17 November 2020 
when she handed it back. This includes the period in April/May/June 2020 when she hadnt 
made any payments. I dont think it would be fair for her to have three months free usage, 
and I would expect her to have to pay these deferred payments. 
The timeline in question is that in April 2020 Lex confirmed that the three months of deferred 
payments would need to be paid at the end of the agreement. In October 2020 on a phone call, Mrs R asked for a termination quote and wasnt reminded about these deferred 
payments, but then immediately after the call, a quote was produced and sent to her, which 
said the quote was only valid if all invoiced rentals had been paid. 
I accept that in an ideal world, the person on the call in October with Mrs R would have 
pointed out that if she had any deferred payments, they would still need paying. But I dont 
agree that the fact this wasnt explicitly stated on that call means she has been treated 
unfairly and shouldnt have to pay the three months of deferred payments. In effect, the lack 
of information on the phone call was corrected immediately afterwards when the quote was 
sent out.  
It is fair for Mrs R to pay for the three months when she had use of the car. The quote she 
was sent after the phone call confirms that the quote assumes all invoiced rentals have been 
paid. I think that makes it clear that the quote wouldnt be accurate if there were invoiced 
rentals that hadnt been paid. The payment holiday was only a few months prior to this, so Id 
expect Mrs R, if she was unsure on reading the quote whether she needed to pay those 
deferred payments still, to have asked that question. 
Finally, Mrs R said that she was told on a call to Lex around the time she terminated the 
agreement, to cancel her direct debit. This call couldnt be found by Lex, and this information 
is not mentioned in any of the calls which were found. So, Ive thought about whether this 
would make any difference to my decision. 
I cant think of many scenarios where she might have been told to do this. A business will 
always stop taking a direct debit when an agreement ends, and all payments have been 
made. The email they sent on 20 November 2020 about the deferred payments being due 
did confirm that if she didnt want to make the payments through the stated three monthly 
payments, or if she couldnt pay, she could contact them to pay in other ways or discuss the 
situation. It confirmed she didnt need to pay these three monthly payments via the three 
monthly direct debit payments they proposed.   
Even if she was told to cancel her direct debit with her bank for some unknown reason, Im 
not persuaded this impacts her complaint. If it happened, I dont see any detriment to Mrs R 
from this, and equally, it doesnt persuade me that anyone at Lex had decided she didnt 
have to make the deferred payments. 
In a situation like this, when payments have been deferred on a hire agreement, a customer 
will need to make these payments before or when the agreement ends. Im sorry for any 
confusion suffered here by Mrs R, but I am satisfied that it was fair for Lex to request these 
payments when she terminated the agreement, and I wont be asking them to do anything 
further.     
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman