DRN-3992033
The complaint
Ms N complains that BISL Limited mishandled her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms N took out cover for the year from 31 December 2021 to 30 December 2022. The cost 
was about £250.00 including breakdown cover.
The policy was branded with the name of a motoring organisation. BISL arranged and 
administered the policy as an intermediary between Ms N and a motor insurer. 
BISL noted that Ms N preferred documents to be sent by post, and she didnt want automatic 
renewal.
On 3 December 2022, Ms N called BISL and asked for a quote for renewal. BISL said it 
would post renewal documents 21 days before the renewal date (so by about 9 December 
2022). BISL gave Ms N a renewal quote over the phone of about £280.00. BISL declined to 
match any lower quote. Ms N asked for BISL to confirm the quote in writing. 
BISL sent an email the same day, suggesting that it had renewed the policy and would take 
payment.
BISL didnt send the renewal quote by post.
Ms N got in touch with BISL again. By a final response dated 12 December 2022, BISL 
confirmed that it hadnt renewed the policy. It sent Ms N a cheque for £30.00 for the 
inconvenience caused by the incorrect email. 
On 13 December 2022, BISL sent Ms N another cheque for £30.00.
On 14 December 2022, Ms N contacted BISL again about automatic renewal. BISL quoted 
about £300.00. It sent Ms N a further cheque for £15.00. 
BISL sent further emails to Ms N on 16 and 20 December 2022.
Ms N complained to BISL that it hadnt sent her the policy documents by post, and it had 
given her conflicting information about quotes and renewal.
BISL sent a further response dated mid-January 2023. Ms N brought her complaint to us 
without delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
£75.00 adequately compensated Ms N for what went wrong.
Ms N disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She is in her seventies and disabled.
She was mis- sold her policy.
She signed up for a postal service.
She does not have a postal problem. 
She didnt receive the documents to check, but she didnt realise.
BISL kept asking her to go online.
BISLs call handler on 3 December was rude.
BISL increased its quote on 14 December 2022.
Her new insurance company payment this year was about £240.00 for the same 
needs. It sent her the documents straight away. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covered Ms Ns vehicle. I havent seen enough evidence that the policy was 
unsuitable for her needs. So I dont consider that BISL mis-sold it to her.
From its screenshots, I accept that in late December 2021, BISL sent the policy documents 
to Ms Ns correct address by post. As there may have been a problem with postal delivery, I 
dont hold BISL responsible if Ms N didnt receive the documents.
Ms N had expressed a preference for post. But she had provided an email address. I dont 
consider that BISL did anything wrong by suggesting she went online. I find that on 8 April 
2022, Ms N registered for an account on the online portal where there were copies of the 
policy documents.
From the call recordings and emails, I dont consider that BISL was rude to Ms N.
Different providers may quote different prices at different times. I cant say that BISLs quote 
treated Ms N unfairly. I dont consider that BISL was obliged to match any lower quote from 
a competitor.
BISLs first email on 3 December 2022 caused Ms N some concern. But I dont find that it 
said the policy would continue after December 2022. And BISL explained by another email 
later the same day that it wouldnt renew the policy automatically. 
Unfortunately, on 14 December 2022, BISL gave a second quote that was higher than the 
first. Ms N got in touch about that. BISL offered to honour the lower quote. 
BISLs emails of 14 December 2022 and 16 January 2023 explained why it had sent 
cheques to Miss N.
Overall, I conclude that BISL made errors of communication that caused Ms N irritation and 
put her to the trouble of contacting BISL more often than she would otherwise have done. 
But BISL tried to put thing right promptly and the impact on Ms N was short-lived each time.
So Im satisfied that BISLs payments of £75.00 were fair as compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct BISL to do any more in response to 
this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct BISL Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman