DRN-2018730
The complaint
Mr H has complained that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited  
(NFU) provided misleading and untrue reasons as to why it increased the premium under his 
joint home insurance policy with Mrs H at renewal. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Hs home insurance policy was due to renew with NFU in August 2019. In July 
2019 Mr H received notice of the renewal premium from NFU. It had increased from £956.97 
to £1,341.26. So Mr H called NFU to query it. 
Mr H said the agent told him all premiums had gone up by 40%. Dissatisfied with the reply, 
Mr H sought clarification from NFU. He complained as he said the replies NFU gave him 
were either misleading or untrue. Mr and Mrs H didnt renew their policy with NFU and 
bought a home insurance policy elsewhere.
NFU apologised and said it could have been clearer from the outset as to the reasons for the 
increase in premium. But it said the price was correct. Although it wasnt the only reason, it 
said the primary reason for the increase was due to its revised review of the flood risk to 
their home. NFU said the information it relied on is commercially sensitive and so cant be 
shared. But it gave Mr H the source of the data and said it also used flood risk data from the 
government website.
Mr H was unhappy with the following statements which NFU made. He believed they were 
conflicting. In August 2019 NFU said in relation to the data it was relying on:
This data has shown that your property has an increased risk of flood damage and, as a 
result, the terms at which we are able to offer you cover have been updated.
It later referred to newly updated flood data which has changed our perception of the risk. 
The risk itself has not necessarily changed, rather our understanding of it has.
NFU didnt agree it was conflicting. It said if it had known about the risk five years before, it 
would have increased Mr and Mrs Hs premium then and at subsequent renewals. 
Mr H asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted NFU to apologise for providing 
misleading and untrue information as to why it increased the premium. He wanted 
compensation of £500 for the worry and distress NFU had caused. He said they were 
thinking about selling their home at the time of renewal and were worried the information 
NFU was relying on would have a negative financial impact on the selling price of their 
property. 
Our investigator explained that insurers constantly review and change the rates they apply 
when deciding a premium. NFU had provided us with evidence it had applied its rating 
correctly when calculating Mr and Mrs Hs renewal premium. He was satisfied that the main 
cause for the increase in premium was due to NFUs view of the flood risk had changed. And 
he was satisfied that Mr and Mrs H had been treated fairly and as any other customer would 
have in their circumstances. 
He agreed that NFU could have been clearer about the reasons why the premium had gone 
up. But as he found the premium theyd quoted was correct  and Mr H had the option to buy 
insurance elsewhere - he thought NFUs apology was enough to put things right.
Mr H didnt agree. He said its very clear that NFU provided misleading information. He 
doesnt think its reasonable that NFU incorrectly told him all premiums had gone up by 40% 
last year. He said its clear we havent listened to the call recording. He feels weve been 
dismissive in accepting what NFU did because theyve apologised for it. 
Mr H said NFU tried to mislead him by saying the flood risk had increased  but later said 
the actual risk hadnt increased, but their interpretation of it had. He said NFU clearly stated 
they were not aware of the risk, totally ignoring the fact their representative had surveyed the 
property and agreed the risk over three years before. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurer can decide the risk it wishes to take on and the price it wants to charge for that 
risk. This isnt something we can interfere with as its a commercial decision every insurer 
can make  and it varies from insurer to insurer. It's not unusual for the price of an insurance 
policy to increase at renewal. Sometimes this may be a general increase in line with inflation. 
But other factors that occur during the period of cover could impact on the premium. Insurers 
constantly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates continually change. 
This is why we as consumers find such a wide range in price on comparison websites when 
we look for a quote  even though the quote is based on the same information weve 
provided.
We can look at the underwriting criteria to see if the insurer has treated its customer fairly 
and applied the criteria as it would to any other customer in the same position. 
Mr H has drawn a distinction between two statements NFU gave him. However, the context 
of what NFU said in its reply dated 29 August 2019 was:
The increase in your premium is primarily due to our revised view of the flood risk for 
your
property. In common with insurers we review the coastal, river and surface water 
flood risk
using sophisticated mapping data. This data has shown that your property has an 
increased risk of flood damage and, as a result, the terms at which we are able to 
offer you cover have been updated. Although the information we have used is 
commercial sensitive, alternative data, such as flood maps, are available on the 
UKGOV website.
It later referred to newly updated flood data which has changed our perception of the risk. 
The risk itself has not necessarily changed, rather our understanding of it has.
NFU has taken a revised view of the flood risk. So I dont think NFU tried to mislead Mr H 
here. 
Sometimes insurers make mistakes. When they do, we look at the impact of the mistake and 
what it did to put things right. NFU accepts that it should have been clearer with Mr H when he asked why his premium had increased  and its given feedback to its agents. Its 
apologised to Mr H for this. I havent seen anything to suggest that NFUs actions would 
have had an impact on the selling price  if Mr and Mrs H had decided to put their home up 
for sale at around the time of renewal.
I understand Mr H will be disappointed with my decision. But I think in this case, NFUs 
apology for not being clear as to the reasons why it increased the premium at renewal is 
enough to put things right. Im satisfied that the premium it quoted was correct and it 
explained its reasons when it dealt with his complaint. This means Im not asking NFU to do 
any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman