DRN-2618756
The complaint
Mr D complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined a claim he 
made under his legal expenses cover. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In August 2012 Mr D was involved in road traffic accident. Under the legal expenses 
part of his RSA motor insurance policy he made a personal injury claim. RSA then 
appointed one of its panel firms to represent him  Company A.
In November 2012 Mr D told RSA he wouldnt proceed with Company A as he had 
concerns about its handling of his claim. Company B has represented Mr D since.
RSA says it told Mr D on several occasions it would need to receive an appointment 
request from Company B after he appointed them  but this didnt happen. And 
following this RSA had sent various chasers to Company B in relation to its claim so 
RSA could close its own separate motor claim file.
In February 2016 Mr D requested RSA cover his outstanding fees to Company B. It 
asked for this request to come from Company B directly. After a back and forth 
communication Company B said it would request these costs formally in writing. But 
RSA says no further correspondence took place.
The personal injury claim is now settled, and Mr D has been provided with invoices 
for costs from Companies A and B. RSA has declined to cover any invoices related 
to the claim, saying its policy isnt designed to cover claims where it doesnt have 
control of the costs, and Mr D had appointed Company B without its consent. It also 
said there had been a fundamental breach in the way Company B handled the matter 
 proceeding without his written consent that he would fund any costs and that his 
first awareness seemed to be when it presented a bill. So, it referred him to the SRA.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator outlined the history of the 
complaint in detail. He said despite RSAs requests, Company B never provided it 
with the form of authority to act or a costs schedule to be agreed. And as this was a 
policy requirement, he felt RSA had fairly declined these costs in the circumstances.
Mr D disagreed, saying:
oCompany As poor handling had left him with no option but to seek alternative 
representation. 
oCompany B had contacted RSA repeatedly and it hadnt responded. He 
provided an email from May 2016 to support this. This was from Company B 
to Mr D, saying it had tried to call RSA to say it would make a claim in the 
future against the legal expenses part of his policy. 
oRSA failed to inform him that he was taking on the financial risk himself by not 
proceeding with Company A. 
oCompany B had provided bill rates to RSA so it was aware of its costs.
oCompany B was appointed with the full support and involvement of RSA 
which was demonstrated by RSA keeping full control of the case, evidenced 
by the extraordinary lengths taken to engage with RSA.
oThe policy allows Mr D his own right to choose his own legal resource.
This didnt change the investigators mind. So, the complaint has been passed to me 
for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The subject of this complaint concerns Mr Ds claim under the legal expenses cover. So, this 
is what Ive focused on within my decision.
Mr Ds motor insurance includes an additional cover called Legal Assistance Plan. This says 
it will provide cover for legal fees, costs and other expenses which:
a) your Legal Representative charges you in connection with bringing a claim for 
Uninsured Losses
b) which are incurred by your opponent or other party and which a court has ordered 
you to pay or which you have agreed to pay on the advice of your Legal 
Representative arising from Legal Proceedings.
Legal expenses must be agreed by us and will be assessed on a standard basis or in 
accordance with any fixed recoverable costs scheme if applicable.
Under the heading Legal Representation the policy also says:
You are free to appoint your own Legal Representative. 
We have chosen a panel of legal firms to provide legal services to our customers. 
There is nothing in our relationship with our panel firms which affects their ability to 
act in your best interests, but you are not obliged to appoint your Legal 
Representative from our panel if you do not wish to.
Regardless of who you appoint as your Legal Representative, we will only provide 
cover in accordance with the terms of this Policy. You may agree to pay any 
additional fees required by the Legal Representative above the amount we will cover, 
but these will be your responsibility only.
On this basis, we recommend that you clarify how fees will be charged before you 
instruct the proposed Legal Representative and inform us of any agreement reached 
between you and the chosen Legal Representative.
So, its clear to me that there are requirements that Mr Ds claim must meet for the claim to 
succeed. And one of these, significantly, is that the legal expenses must be agreed by RSA. 
Even where a policyholder appoints their own legal representative.
In this case, theres no dispute that Mr D has incurred costs in relation to bringing a claim for 
uninsured losses (his personal injury). But RSA disputes that these costs were agreed with it in advance. So, Ive looked at the history of the claim and evidence provided. As our 
investigator has provided a detailed timeline of events previously, I will not repeat this here.
From what Ive seen, RSA sought a formal letter from Company B with either a form of 
authority or a cost schedule to be agreed with RSA. It did so in January 2014. Despite back 
and forth between parties following, this still wasnt provided. So, on balance, Im satisfied 
RSA is correct in saying that Company B was acting for Mr D without its agreement as 
required by the policy terms.
Ive also thought carefully about everything Mr D has told us, but it hasnt changed my mind.
The subject of this decision is not to consider the actions or handling of Company A. I cant 
comment on how the legal claim was conducted and can only consider how RSA dealt with 
Mr Ds claim on his policy. And ultimately Company As actions have not impacted whether 
Mr D or Company B were able to provide the necessary information to RSA as Ive outlined 
above. The information Mr D has provided doesnt demonstrate that Company B ever did 
provide the necessary information that RSA requested and required. Nor do I agree the 
evidence supports that RSA had full control over the case.
I appreciate Mr D feels the responsibility of ensuring his costs are covered sits with RSA. But 
Im satisfied its request to both Mr D and Company B, alongside the policy terms, were clear 
that cover must be agreed. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied RSA has acted fairly by declining this claim. And Im not 
directing it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman