DRN-3134540
The complaint
Mr S complains that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money), which Ill refer to 
as 118, put a default notice on his loan account which he never received and put his account 
on default which affected his credit record whilst it was on a payment holiday. He further 
complained that the loan was sold on to a third party whilst he was on a payment plan.
What happened
118 provided Mr S with a loan for £2,000 in January 2020 repayable in 24 monthly 
instalments of about £125. In April 2020 he contacted 118 and told it he had employment 
problems because of Covid. It was agreed that he would have a three month payment 
holiday, for the April, May and June payments backdated to the beginning of April (when the 
payment was due). On 29 June, at the end of that period he contacted 118 again to advise 
that he had now been made redundant and couldnt afford to make any payments at that 
point. 118 agreed to put his account on hold for a month though explained that arrears would 
still accrue and would affect his credit record.
Mr S contacted 118 through a webchat on 30 July. He was advised in the course of that 
webchat that the hold on his account had expired and that he needed to contact the 
collections department. He then phoned on 12 August, and advised that he wasnt in a 
position to pay any amount. 118 agreed that a further hold would be put in place, expiring on 
11 September. He was advised to contact 118 before the end of the hold to discuss the loan 
account further. On 17 September, a default notice was sent to Mr S, which he says he 
never received. He contacted 118 on 14 October. He advised that was still in no position to 
put forward a repayment plan, but indicated that he could, with his parents help, offer £10 a 
month. 118 agreed that the plan would last for three months, until the end of December. The 
loan was sold to a third party at the end of November 2020.
Mr S complained to 118, asserting that he had never received any default notice and hadnt 
been warned about any notices. He believed he was given a further payment holiday which 
wouldnt have expired until the end of September. 118 said the notice had been properly 
sent to him and that Mr S had been given full explanations about what was happening with 
his loan account.
Our adjudicator thought that 118 had acted reasonably and had given Mr S sufficient 
warnings about what was happening with his account and what the consequences would
be if he failed to adhere to the timescales that were set out.
Mr S was adamant that he had received no default notice and questioned why a payment 
plan was then put into place. He also said he wasnt told that he would receive notices 
concerning the arrears while his account was on hold. 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules and regulations in place required 118 Money as a lender to consider consumers in 
default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. This might include:
Suspending, waiving, or cancelling any further interest or charges
Allowing arrears to be deferred where immediate payment could cause payments to be 
unsustainable or where the term would not be increased excessively
Accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow the consumer 
to recover from an unexpected reduction in income
Informing the consumer that free debt advice is available and providing details
Not refusing reasonable affordable repayment proposals made by the borrower, debt 
counsellor or other person authorised by the borrower
Not pressuring borrowers to make unreasonably large payments where this will have an 
adverse impact on their financial position.
Taking proportionate action against a consumer in arrears or default.
Also at the time Mr S got into difficulties there was temporary guidance in place relating to 
the coronavirus lockdown, requiring lenders to, where appropriate, offer payment holidays of 
up to three months.
I have considered the documentation supplied by 118. Also I have obtained and considered 
recordings of the phone calls between Mr S and 118, the transcript of the webchat, and 
copies of the texts sent to him.
payment holiday (also called a payment freeze)/account on hold
In Mr Ss case, a payment holiday of three months was in place when he contacted 118 
towards the end of April. It was backdated to the April payment, which means that it was 
applied for April, May, and June. Mr S received notification by text on 24 June that he 
needed to contact 118 as the payment holiday was ending. Mr S contacted 118 on 29 June. 
During the course of that phone call he was advised that a further payment holiday/freeze 
wasnt available but that his account could be put on hold for 30 days. He was told that 
arrears would continue to accrue and that the hold was different from a payment 
holiday/freeze. The agent advised Mr S to contact 118 again before the end of the hold 
period i.e. by 29 July.
Mr S was sent text remainders during July advising him he had missed a payment and that 
the account was in arrears. Mr S next contacted 118 via webchat on 30 July. In the course of 
that it was again explained to him that his account had been put on hold for a month, but that 
it wasnt a payment freeze. He was also told that the hold had expired and that he needed to 
contact the collections team.
Mr S next contacted 118 on 12 August. It was again explained to him that he wasnt on a 
payment holiday/freeze. He advised that he couldnt put forward a repayment plan as he had 
no income. 118 agreed to put the account on hold for another month. The agent directed him 
to debt advice but he said he didnt want that. It was explained to him again that arrears 
would continue to accrue and that he needed to contact 118 again before the end of the hold 
period. He was also told that he would continue to receive notices about the arrears and 
missed payments.On 17 September 118 issued a notice of default. Mr S says he didnt receive this, but he did 
continue to receive texts advising him the account was overdue. He contacted 118 again on 
14 October, and this time set up a payment plan of £10 a month.
I think 118 acted reasonably and its agents were sympathetic to Mr Ss situation, and 
followed the guidance I have set out above. He continued to misunderstand about the 
difference between the account being put on hold and a payment holiday/freeze. But I find 
this was clearly explained to him in telephone calls and in the webchat. He was advised 
several times to get in touch before deadlines expired but he failed to do so.
default notice
Mr S asserts that he received no default notice, and also says it was unfair of 118 to put his 
account in default when he had set up a payment plan. The notice was properly addressed, 
and was issued on 17 September after the hold had expired. It wasnt issued when a 
payment plan had been set up  that wasnt done until 14 October. Im sorry Mr S didnt 
receive the default notice but I think 118 was entitled to issue the notice. He was advised 
that notices would be issued and that arrears would continue to accrue, and had received a 
number of text messages in September prior to the default notice being issued.
selling loan to third party 
Unfortunately 118 is entitled to do this, even if the payment plan was being followed. Mr S 
should be able to contact the third party if he needs to about reinstating a payment plan.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman