DRN-2240626
The complaint
AXA France has now taken responsibility for this complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer 
to AXA France as the seller in my decision.
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999.
Mr M says AXA France mis-sold him the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
AXA France had to make Mr M aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before
adding it to his card. I cant be certain what was said at the time Mr M applied for his card
and PPI. AXA France has provided a copy of the available paperwork. Mr Ms store card
application form had a separate section for PPI which was selected before the application 
was printed. I think this was likely selected as a result of a conversation Mr M had with the 
store representative. Mr M then signed the application in agreement with the selections that 
were made on it. So, I think Mr M would have known he didnt have to take the PPI and he 
chose to have it.
Mr M has told us that AXA France recommended the PPI to him. If it did AXA France would 
have to check the policy was right for him. Mr M has told us he would have been entitled to 
generous sick pay sick pay when he applied for the card so he wouldnt have needed PPI. 
He also had savings, income protection, and family he could have relied on for help.
But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ms sick pay and for longer than he would 
have received full pay and helped to protect his savings so they could be used towards any 
other expenses he may have had. 
Mr M has told us he doesnt have the details of the income protection he had at the time. But 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to any other cover he may have had so I think he 
would have found it useful. And while Mr Ms family would have wanted to help, their ability 
to do so would have been dependent on their circumstances at the time, which could have 
changed. So, I dont think this offer of help could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.
So, I think it was right for him.
Its possible the information AXA France gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover.
Which means AXA France doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI Mr M.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said but these comments dont change my decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman