DRN-3777597
The complaint
Mr W complains about AWP P&C SA (AWP) who offered a lower value than the cost of the 
device, following a claim under his gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W damaged his phone and made a claim under the policy he held with AWP. He said that 
he sent all the documentation that was requested, as well as the damaged phone. He said 
that AWP offered him the following by way of settlement: the original purchase price of the 
damaged phone less depreciation. Which equated to what Mr W thought was the original 
price he had purchased the phone for minus 20% of value for depreciation and £75 excess. 
Mr W thought this was fair.
Mr W said that AWP then offered him a lower than expected price for the cost of the phone - 
£748 with a 20% depreciation which meant the amount offered was £598.40. Mr W said the 
cost of the phone was £1,179. 
AWP explained to Mr W that the price that it took into consideration was the official market 
price dating back to the purchase date. And since the purchase of the device took place 
through a contract with a telephone operator and included other monthly expenses, the 
purchase price for the phone that Mr W bought was higher. 
Mr W complained to AWP as he also had provided it with proof of purchase. But Mr W heard 
nothing further from AWP. So, he referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and during her investigations asked for 
the full file and comments from AWP.  AWP replied that it was the wrong business to set the 
complaint up against. Apart from this, our investigator obtained no further evidence from 
AWP. 
Our investigators view was that she could consider the complaint in the absence of AWPs 
engagement. She said that AWP shouldve handled Mr Ws claim promptly and fairly and it 
shouldnt reject a claim unfairly. She felt that AWP had done just that. She recommended 
that Mr Ws complaint is upheld and said that AWP should review the claim in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. As well as £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr W accepted the view, AWP did not respond and because of this, it has been referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold this complaint, for the following reasons: 
AWP was asked to provide its response to our investigators view and any further 
evidence, but no response has been received. Mr W has provided a consistent 
account of the events that happened. In this case, despite the lack of response from 
AWP, I find I can decide on this complaint and I think it fair that Mr W has a resolution 
to the issues he raised, despite the lack of engagement from AWP.
Ive considered the policy documents to check who the correct business is. Having 
reviewed those documents, Im satisfied that the correct business for this complaint is 
AWP. 
Ive looked at the policy documents to see what the obligations were for both parties. 
Mr W had to return the damaged phone and the terms meant that the phone once 
received by AWP, became its property. The evidence showed that AWP had 
received the damaged phone. One of the terms of the policy is that AWP (if it decides 
to offer a financial reimbursement, will do so on the basis of the original purchase 
price of the device minus a percentage for depreciation and the excess charge of 
£75. 
Mr W has provided a proof of purchase document that indicates that the original 
purchase price of the phone was £1,179. The percentage of depreciation that AWP 
indicated was 20%, which meant that the amount would be £943.20 less the excess 
of £75, which would be £868.20. 
Taking all of the information into consideration, I think its fair and reasonable that 
AWP pay Mr W £868.20, for the damaged phone. 
AWP were invited to provide comments about the proposed resolution, but no 
response was received. 
Finally, given the poor level of service that Mr W experienced, I agree with our investigator 
that AWP ought to pay compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Putting things right
I direct AWP P & C SA to put things right as I set out below. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
To put matters right, AWP P&C SA ought to pay:
£868.20 towards the cost of Mr Ws replacement phone
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
AWP P&C SA must pay the above amounts within 28 days of the date on which wetell it Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman