DRN-4344174
Complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (trading as Novuna Personal Finance) is 
holding her liable for a personal loan she says she didnt take out.
Background
In 2021, Mrs R fell victim to an investment scam. She was looking for investment 
opportunities online and found a company that appeared to be endorsed by a well-known 
media personality. She entered her details on that companys website and received a call 
from someone who persuaded her to invest her money. That call wasnt from a genuine 
investment manager, but a fraudster.
The fraudster told Mrs R that, in order to help her with the process of making her 
investments, she should download a piece of remote access software. This enabled the 
fraudster to take control of her computer and show her how to carry out the steps he said 
were necessary to make the investments. She says that the fraudster would sometimes 
access her computer using that software and she thinks he also had access to her email 
account. 
Some of the money that was lost to the fraud was funded by a loan granted by Novuna. 
Mrs R says that she didnt take out the loan and that the fraudsters must be responsible. 
However, when she contacted Novuna to report what had happened, she told it about the 
investment scam shed fallen victim to. The notes recorded by an employee of the business 
say:
Person they were speaking to made the application  said they didnt have to worry 
about making the payments back. Used her email to apply for loans and set up loans 
under her name 
Novuna didnt agree to cancel the loan. Mrs R was unhappy with that response and so she 
referred her complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who thought it was 
most likely Mrs R was, at the very least, aware that the loan had been taken out. Mrs R 
disagreed with the Investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant know with complete certainty how the loan application was made. And when dealing 
with that uncertainty, I must reach a decision based on the balance of probabilities  that is, I 
need to be persuaded that the available evidence shows its more likely than not that Mrs R 
didnt take out the loan. 
Ive considered the evidence carefully and Im not persuaded thats the case here. I agree 
with the conclusions of the Investigator that its likely that the loan was arranged with Mrs Rs 
knowledge. 
The notes recorded by the business at the time Mrs R reported the fraud does not suggest 
that the applications were made without her knowledge or consent. She had granted access 
to and control of her computer to the fraudsters by downloading remote access software. 
However, the way that she appears to have described what happened to Novuna does 
suggest that the loan applications were made with her knowledge and consent, albeit she 
was tricked into consenting to them by the false reassurance given to her by the scammer 
that she wouldnt be responsible for repayments. 
It's also noteworthy that the proceeds of the loan were deposited into Mrs Rs bank account. 
The losses occurred when they were transferred out of that account into one controlled by 
the fraudster. Mrs R has made separate complaint about that bank which is also being 
considered by this service. The evidence Ive seen on the file for that complaint shows that 
she called her bank to discuss the transfers of the loan funds. That call strongly suggests 
that she knew that the loan had been paid into her account.
I know my decision will be hugely disappointing to Mrs R, but Im persuaded that the weight 
of the evidence suggests the loan was arranged with her knowledge and consent. It follows 
that I dont think Novuna has acted unreasonably by holding her liable for it. Nonetheless, Id 
like to remind Novuna that it has a regulatory obligation to offer forbearance and due 
consideration in the event that Mrs R experiences financial difficulties.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman