DRN-2927134
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W (the complainants) jointly have a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
with Suffolk Life Pensions Limited, trading as Curtis Banks Pensions (CBP). They say CBP 
mismanaged rent receipts for property investments within their SIPP and breached a 
mortgage covenant, which resulted in the loss of a mortgage offer for a new property 
investment they sought to make in late 2019. 
What happened
The complainants say the complaint  
 relates to a failed purchase of a property within our SIPP  The SIPP has three existing 
properties and we were looking to purchase a fourth. During the transaction period, without 
our knowledge. [sic] Curtis bank broke a mortgage covenant with the mortgage provider 
Handelsbanken who provided a loan to our SIPP to buy two properties. The breach of 
covenant led to Handelsbanken withdrawing the mortgage offer to purchase the fourth 
property following 12 months worth of effort and expense to get to a point of transaction. 
Curtis Banks poor procedural quality did not flag that they had underpaid the mortgage 
covenant despite there being plenty of cash in the SIPP: circa £140.000.
In the main, CBP says that the complainants have misrepresented facts in their complaint; 
that whilst they are the beneficial owners of the SIPPs assets, CBP was the legal owner and 
it had associated rights and responsibilities; 
that it could not consent to a property investment in the SIPP without satisfying its due 
diligence and its legal obligations under HMRC pension regulations; 
that it wrote to Mr W at the outset about two issues which, as part of its due diligence and 
legal obligations, had to be addressed before it could consent to the new property 
investment; 
that its contact with Mr W explained (1) regulations would not allow a pension to borrow 
more than 50% of its net value, and in this respect the SIPP did not have enough net value 
to support the borrowing the complainants required, and (2) there were rent arrears of over 
£25,000 owed within the connected tenancies in two of the properties already in the SIPP 
and its SIPP rules meant it could not consent to a new property investment until those 
arrears had been resolved; 
that as of 3 December 2019 both issues remained unresolved and it wrote to Mr W with a 
deadline of 9 December to resolve these matters; 
and that Mr W replied on the same date (3 December) to instruct closure of the process 
because the complainants had decided to make the property investment outside the SIPP. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, he broadly agreed with CBPs position and he referred to evidence that 
supports CBPs account of events. With regards to the complainants reference to a 
covenant breach by CBP the investigator referred to correspondence on which the 
complainants relied and concluded that it did not convey or confirm that a covenant breach 
prevented the new property purchase. 
The complainants disagreed with this outcome and considered that the investigator had 
misunderstood the complaint and had misdirected his considerations. Mr W mainly said  
The complaint is simply this. As the trustees of the SIPP, Suffolk Life never communicated 
to us as the beneficiaries that the contract between them and Handelsbanken was in breach 
of the covenant due to under payment. Had they informed us we would have made 
additional payments. This deal collapsed due to their failure to keep us properly informed of 
the undertakings they had made on our behalf and failed to protect us as investors - which is 
their primary purpose.
The reason the transaction failed is that Suffolk Life at no point communicated to us that 
they were allowing the covenant to be breached. Had they informed us we would have 
added money to the SIPP to ensure this was avoided.
The complainants also highlighted that the rent arrears raised by CBP concerned a property 
in the SIPP that was mortgage free; so that had no bearing on the pre-existing lending from 
the lender (for the other two SIPP properties); no bearing on their pursuit of the new property 
investment; and that it is the covenant breach permitted by CBP in the other two SIPP 
properties (which had mortgages) that held relevance.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Two observations and a preliminary comment should be made at the outset of these 
findings.
First, the complaint submitted to this service is as I quoted, from the complainants complaint 
form, at the start of the previous section (above). The complaint is about the failed purchase 
of a property within [the complainants] SIPP. They say CBPs breach of a relevant 
covenant and its concealment of that breach led to the failed purchase, but the complaint is 
not about the alleged breach of covenant (and/or alleged concealment) in isolation. 
I make this observation because there appears to be a suggestion within Mr Ws response to 
the investigators view, as quoted above, that he considers the alleged breach (and alleged 
concealment) as the main issue to determine. If evidence shows that the property 
investment the complainants sought to make in the SIPP failed and if evidence shows that it 
failed because of action and/or inaction by CBP related to the alleged covenant breach (and 
concealment), then they obviously become relevant. Otherwise, the opposite will be the 
case.
My second observation is that it is not quite, or completely, correct to simply say the pursuit 
to make the property investment in the SIPP failed. The relevant facts, supported by 
available correspondence evidence, illustrates something somewhat different. Mr W has also 
told this service that the mortgage lender  withdrew their promised funding due to Curtis 
Banks negligence, but evidence suggests that this too is an incomplete and not quite 
correct simplification. It is worth noting, as relevant context and if this has not already been made clear, that the mortgage lender for the proposed/new property investment was the 
same lender that financed the two mortgaged property in the SIPP. 
My preliminary comment relates to how I refer to the alleged covenant breach. Unless and 
until I have cause to determine, and make a finding on, whether (or not) such a breach 
happened I will not do so, and I will continue to refer to it as an alleged breach. 
The terms of the complainants SIPP, and information dedicated to property investments 
within the SIPP, have been shared with this service. They confirm that, as CBP says, it (or 
its associated trustee function) stood to be the legal owner and named purchaser of the 
proposed property investment, with the complainants as beneficial owners. These 
documents also explain the due process and legal obligations relevant to such an 
investment in the SIPP. 
The terms include confirmation that CBP reserves  the right not to proceed with the 
property acquisition at any point in the acquisition process due to the property failing to meet 
[its] due diligence requirements . They also include the following  
Borrowing will only be permitted for sums which are within the limits set out in section 182 of 
the Finance Act 2004. Borrowing is only allowed for the purpose of property acquisition 
"You can borrow up to 50% of the net fund value of your SIPP calculated at the time of 
the borrowing This includes any existing borrowing. [as written in bold in the terms]
Content from the Pensions Tax Manual (PTM124000), with references to sections 183 and 
184 of the Finance Act and to the 50% of net value pension borrowing limit, has also been 
shared with us.
Submission of a specific property form to CBP essentially began, in earnest, the SIPPs 
property acquisition process (inclusive of requisite due diligence). A copy of the 
complainants completed (and signed) property form is dated 4 November 2019. Prior to this, 
the following had happened:
On 24 September 2019 the mortgage lender wrote to Mr W and briefly fed back on a 
discussion it had with CBP. The lender confirmed awareness that Mr W and CBP had 
arranged for top up funds to be paid, by Mr W, into the SIPP in order to ensure it 
had borrowing capacity, and the lender clarified that this needed to be done prior to 
(not after) completion. The lender also noted awareness that rent arrears in the 
SIPPs existing properties were owed by the same tenant that was proposed for the 
prospective/new property the complainants sought to invest the SIPP in, and that this 
needed to be addressed.
 
On 2 October 2019 CBP wrote to the complainants, and openly copied their solicitor 
and the mortgage lender. It highlighted two concerns that it still had  insufficient 
borrowing capacity within the SIPP (based on the 50% of net value borrowing limit) 
for the proposed borrowing of £162,000; and that there were rent arrears related to 
the SIPPs pre-existing property investments, in the amount of around £54,000. It 
acknowledged that there was a plan to reduce the rent arrears by £15,000  which 
Mr W had confirmed in an email to CBP on 24 September 2019  but said the arrears 
had to be cleared completely before the new property investment could proceed. It 
also said the borrowing capacity problem had to be resolved for the same purpose.
On 3 October 2019 the mortgage lender wrote to Mr W. In the main, it said  As you will be aware the existing loan facility has a Debt Service covenant (Gross 
Rental income to Debt service cost - to be a minimum of 1,25x). This is measured on 
an annual basis with the test period being the 12 months to 31 July. [CBP] has sent 
across the annual rental schedule for the 12 months to 31/07/2019 as the test is now 
due (with the annual review of facilities). Due to the rent arrears, the Debt Service 
covenant test has unfortunately failed and as such means the facility is in breach.
On 8 October 2019 the mortgage lender wrote again to Mr W. In this communication 
it set out why it was  unable to proceed with the proposed new SIPP loan. This 
communication arguably has a pivotal, or at least important, position in terms of the 
merits (or otherwise) of the complaint, so instead of summarising it I quote its main 
parts as follows  
I wanted to set out the reasons we discussed that the Bank is now unable to 
proceed with the proposed new SIPP loan:
1. Rent Arrears - up until [CBPs] email of 02/10/2019 the Bank was not aware of the 
rent arrears or the level the arrears had reached. I understand from our conversation 
that there have been circumstances which have exacerbated this position but 
fundamentally, the Bank would not be able to advance further funds to a SIPP entity 
with an existing arrears or 'bad debt provision'. As part of the Credit Assessment the 
Bank will look for a track record of rents (which in turn will be used to repay our loan 
facility). The fact rents have fallen behind, and that the new property tenant is in 
essence, the same as the existing properties (entities owned by you) means that we 
are unable to support on this occasion.
I have spoken with  Suffolk Life this morning to ascertain their position. He has 
confirmed that Suffolk Life will not be able to support the new property loan whilst 
there are existing rent arrears (even if there are repayment plans in place).
2. Debt Service Covenant - as outlined in a previous email, the SIPP is in breach of 
its Debt Service Covenant for period 31/07/2018-31/07/2019. Even allowing for a rent 
free period from 28 March 2018- 28 September 2019 the rents received still fall short 
of what is required.
[my emphasis]
On 15 October 2019 a third party (which appears to be the complainants brokers or 
advisors) wrote to CBP. It asked   if the arrears are paid off (£54k ish) does that 
support the purchase? and then it referred to a revised borrowing requirement of 
£130,000 and to the complainants eagerness to resolve matters, in order to progress 
the property investment. CBP replied on 23 October 2019 to say the rent arrears and 
borrowing capacity continued to be problems and that it, the mortgage lender and the 
solicitor have all confirmed they are uncomfortable with proceeding further until the 
rent arrears were settled. 
After 4 November 2019, the following happened: 
On 14 November 2016 CBP wrote to the third party and the complainants asking for 
an update on whether (or not) the SIPP property investment was proceeding. 
On 3 December 2016, and as CBP has said, it wrote to the complainants conveying 
the deadline of 9 December for confirmation on whether (or not) the investment was 
proceeding and the funding issues were resolved, and confirming that if the funding issues were not to be addressed it was minded to close the transactions file. Mr W 
replied on the same date (3 December) with the following  
Please close the file
We are purchasing outside the SIPP
The above explains why I do not consider it quite accurate to say the SIPPs property 
investment pursuit failed. I acknowledge that the mortgage lender confirmed, on 8 October, 
that it was unable to proceed with the loan. However, CBP thereafter continued to be 
available to progress the investment, on the reasonable and unavoidable condition that the 
funding issues were resolved. After 8 October it twice sought engagement from the 
complainants (seemingly without success), up to 3 December. It was prepared to remain 
available for the pursuit up to 9 December, and it is Mr W who terminated the pursuit by his 
response of 3 December. It is arguably more accurate to say the pursuit was terminated, by 
Mr W, and less so to say it failed.
The above also explains why I do not consider it quite correct to say that the mortgage 
lender withdrew from the pursuit because of an alleged covenant breach by CBP. The 
lenders email of 8 October sets out its reasons clearly. Mr W has suggested to us that the 
matter of rent arrears is a smokescreen, that it was not an issue for the lender and that it 
was  a known factor from day 1. As emphasised in the quote above, the arrears were the 
lenders first reason for withdrawing  the alleged covenant breach appears to have been 
secondary  and it was unaware of the arrears until 2 October. 
Overall, the pursuit faced early problems, even before the complainants submitted their 
property form. CBP was supported by relevant regulations and by the SIPPs terms in setting 
out  as it did early in the process, before the lenders withdrawal and then during the 
process  that resolution of the borrowing capacity and rent arrears problems were pre-
conditions to progressing the property investment in the SIPP. Evidence suggests that, 
irrespective of the mortgage lenders position, CBP had to be satisfied that these problems 
had been resolved before the investment could proceed. As it stood to be the legal owner of 
the investment and as its position was supported by relevant regulations and the SIPPs 
terms (which were binding upon the complainants), it was entitled to such satisfaction. 
I do not suggest that the complainants were unable to resolve either of the two problems 
evidence shows that they possibly could have done so. However, the fact remains that 
neither problem was resolved prior to the lenders withdrawal on 8 October and neither 
appears to have been resolved thereafter, despite CBP remaining committed, on the 
conditions mentioned above, to the pursuit. Despite the complainants arguments about the 
lenders position on the matter and the alleged covenant breach, it is a fact that the property 
investment could and would not have progressed until CBP was satisfied that the borrowing 
capacity and rent arrears problems were resolved.
On balance, and given the analysis above, I do not consider it fair or reasonable to conclude 
that CBP caused a failure of the complainants SIPP property investment. They (the 
complainants) withdrew from the pursuit on 3 December, the lender withdrew earlier (on 8 
October), it did so mainly (or at least partly) for a reason (rent arrears) that CBP had 
highlighted to the complainants at the outset, but CBP nevertheless remained engaged in 
the pursuit until Mr Ws withdrawal instruction. As such, in the end, the SIPP property 
investment did not happen because the complainants elected to invest outside the SIPP  
the preceding events led to this, but this was the last relevant act. 
I appreciate the complainants might argue that the prospect of using the SIPP for the 
investment had become hopeless by the time of Mr Ws instruction. However, the fact that CBP (the SIPPs operator and administrator (and its associated trustee function)) remained 
engaged to continue to work on and pursue the investment through the SIPP stands as 
persuasive evidence that it was not a hopeless cause at the time, and that, if they wished, 
the complainants could have maintained their engagement too.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman