DRN-3697442
The complaint
Ms G complains Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline) failed to assist her during her 
time of financial difficulty during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
In August 2020, Ms G entered into a 56 month hire purchase agreement for a used car. The 
cars cash price was £9,581 and she was required to pay monthly instalments of £212.
In October 2020, Ms G told Startline she had been furloughed due to the pandemic and was 
experiencing financial difficulty. Startline said they couldnt agree to a payment deferral. 
Instead they advised her to let Octobers payment bounce, then she could pay half of the 
contractual amount and later they would set up a payment plan for her to pay the other half. 
Thereafter, Startline said for November and Decembers payments she would be required to 
pay £239 (made up of the contractual payment and part of the arrears from October 2020). 
However Ms G said her situation hadnt changed so she couldnt afford these payments. 
Startline said in order to agree to reduced payments, she was required to complete an 
income and expenditure assessment via an open banking resource. Ms G said she was 
frustrated and upset that Startline wouldnt help her and the payment plans werent 
affordable. Instead, she said she borrowed money from friends and family to pay the 
instalments while she remained furloughed. She complained. 
Startline said they were unable to offer reduced payments or payment deferrals for 
agreements under six months old. They said they tried to get an understanding of Ms Gs 
financial circumstances but she didnt engage with them or the open banking process. They 
said they were duty bound to consider Ms Gs affordability before agreeing to reduced 
payments or a payment deferral. 
Unhappy with their response, Ms G referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case was upheld. They said Startline hadnt acted fairly by not agreeing to 
a payment deferral. To put things right, they said Startline should remove the adverse 
information for the months concerned and pay £100 compensation. 
Ms G agreed. Startline disagreed and maintained their position. In summary, they said it 
wouldve been irresponsible of them to automatically grant a three month payment deferral 
without considering Ms Gs individual circumstances. They said by applying a payment 
deferral, it would extend the agreement and it wouldve been irresponsible for them to do so 
without proof or understanding of Ms Gs long-term affordability.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Ms Gs complaint. Ill explain why. 
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) released specific guidance to firms 
which was later updated in July 2020. The guidance stated that a firm should grant a 
consumer a payment deferral for up to six months unless the firm determines (acting 
reasonably) that it is obviously not in the customers interests to do. In this case, the 
guidance was in place at the time Ms G first reported her financial difficulties. As it was clear 
her financial circumstances had been negatively impacted by the pandemic, Im satisfied the 
guidance applied to her. 
However Startline said she wasnt entitled to the above support because the agreement was 
less than six months old. In addition, before agreeing to the same they needed to make sure 
it was in Ms Gs best interest to do so. 
At this point, I wish to stress I consider the fundamental principle of the FCAs guidance was 
for firms to provide temporary and immediate support to those impacted by the pandemic. 
Having read the guidance, I wish to point out some key sections which I believe are relevant 
in this case. When determining whether a payment deferral would be appropriate, it says:
For example, a payment deferral would obviously not be in customers interests if it would 
give the firms customers a greater overall debt burden compared to other solutions (that 
might involve reduced or waived interest for example) that could equally meet customers 
needs and that debt burden would be clearly unsustainable
and
There is no expectation under this guidance that the firm makes enquiries with each 
customer to determine the circumstances surrounding a request for a payment deferral, or 
whether this is not in the customers interests. 
and
Firms can, however, choose to make the enquiries they consider necessary in order to 
satisfy themselves that the customer is eligible for support and to identify whether the 
customer would benefit from any additional support, provided that this does not delay the 
provision of timely support.
and
Where a 3 month full payment deferral is not considered appropriate, firms should without 
unreasonable delay, offer other ways to provide temporary relief to customers in accordance 
with treating customers fairly.
Based on the above, Im not persuaded Startline acted fairly nor in line with under the FCAs 
guidance. 
Startline has argued because the agreement was less than six months old, the guidance 
wouldnt apply. However this would appear to be Startlines internal policy decision and not 
one set by the FCA. There is no suggestion the provision of a payment deferral was 
dependent on how long the agreement had been running for. 
I accept Startline intended to determine whether it was in Ms G interest to agree to the 
payment deferral. However I dont believe the requirement to complete the open banking resource was a prerequisite for providing such assistance nor necessary to understand her 
circumstances. Moreover, it shouldnt hinder support being provided. 
Startline argues there was insufficient evidence the payment deferral would be in Ms Gs 
interest but in my opinion, there is equally no suggestion it was obviously not in her interest 
to do so. I say this because she had been temporarily furloughed and she was expecting to 
return to her employment in the near future. Therefore on balance, I find its fair to say the 
expectation was she would be able to resume paying the contractual payments and pay 
back the arrears in a reasonable time frame. 
Even if I was to accept the FCAs guidance wouldnt apply, there is no indication Startline 
applied the pre-existing guidance relating to those in financial difficulty. This guidance can be 
found in CONC of the FCAs handbook. In such circumstances, the expectation is firms treat 
consumers in financial difficulty with forbearance and due consideration. In this case, despite 
Ms G making it clear she couldnt afford the payments she was told she had to pay at least 
half in October 2020 and £239 thereafter (which was higher than her normal contractual 
amount). I dont consider that fair nor reasonable so I cant say in the absence of applying 
the FCAs guidance, Startline treated Ms G with forbearance and due consideration. 
Ms G said due to the back and forth communication with Startline and them not providing 
adequate support in terms of what she could afford, she lost confidence in them and decided 
to borrow money from friends and family instead. Given what had happened, I can 
understand why she would feel this way. 
Ms G said her credit file has been negatively impacted by this situation. Based on the 
guidance, had Startline agreed to the payment deferral, the missed payments wouldnt have 
reported to the credit reference agencies. Im satisfied Startline shouldve agreed to a three 
month payment deferral initially. So to put things right, I believe they should remove any 
adverse information recorded between October and December 2020.
Ive also considered the impact of this situation on Ms G. She turned to Startline during a 
time of financial hardship and rather than assisting her, I believe they made what was 
already a difficulty time, more worrying. Given the level of communication with Startline, its 
clear it was causing her upset. She borrowed money from friends and family to bring the 
account back up to date and at the time she was also caring for her ill husband. Based on 
these circumstances, I find its reasonable for Startline to pay £100 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Ms Gs complaint.
To put things right Startline Motor Finance Limited must:
-Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Gs credit file between October 
2020 and December 2020;
-Pay £100 compensation to Ms G for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask x to accept or 
reject my decision before xxxxx.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 Simona Charles
Ombudsman