DRN-3263047
The complaint
Ms A complains about end of contract charges when her agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In July 2018 Ms A was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS. AT the end of the agreement the car was inspected and collected, and Ms A was 
asked to pay charges for damage which MBFS said exceeded fair wear and tear. Ms A 
disputed the charges. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint, in which I explained why I thought most of 
the charges had been applied fairly. I dealt with specific points which Ms A had raised about 
the alloy wheels and the bumper. I said I was satisfied that the photos showed that the 
damage to the wheels exceeded the relevant wear and tear guidelines. I said I wasnt 
persuaded that the scratches on the front bumper should be treated as a collective of 
scratches and said these charges hadnt been fairly applied. I also explained why I was 
unable to offset any unused mileage allowance against damage charges, because the terms 
and conditions didnt allow for this.
I invited both parties to let me have any further information or arguments they wanted to 
raise. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A responded to my provisional decision and said she accepted charges for the LHF 
wheel, RHF wheel, rear bumper scratch, parcel shelf tear and keys. She said she continued 
to dispute the charges for the LHR wheel, RHR wheel, front bumper scratches, LHR dent 
and sun visor. She referred e to the photos and said she didnt agree that these showed any 
damage to the items she disputed.
MBFS also responded. It said it didnt agree with my decision on the bumper and said that 
the relevant guidelines stated that there should be a maximum of 4 scratches per panel.
Ive considered what both parties have said but my decision hasnt changed. Ive looked at 
the photos but for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Im of the view that the 
damage can be seen and that it goes beyond acceptable wear and tear. In relation to the 
bumper scratches, Im not persuaded that the collective of scratches constitute damage 
which impacts the overall look of the vehicle and as such, I dont think the damage charges 
have been fairly applied.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited must refund the charges in relation to the front bumper. Ms A is responsible for 
the rest of the charges.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman