DRN-3689147
The complaint
Mr B complains that Key Currency Limited wont refund money he was tricked into 
instructing it to pay to a fraudster.
What happened
Mr B had to pay his sons university fees. The university sent him a link to a portal where 
payment could be made.
Mr B used the services of Key Currency in order to make the payment. He initially 
transferred his funds from his bank account to Key Currency. It then asked him for the 
account details he wished to send the money to. He sent the link provided by the university. 
Key Currency responded to say they couldnt see any account details within the link.
An email was sent back to Key Currency from Mr Bs email address. Unfortunately, it hadnt 
been written by Mr B, but rather a fraudster who presumably had access to his email 
account. The email contained a new, different, sort code and account number. 
In line with its policy, Key Currency called Mr B to confirm the account number and sort code 
verbally. He confirmed that the details were correct but when Mr B mentioned he was 
driving, Key Currency said that theyd call back the following day when Mr B had the account 
details in front of him. Key Currency also mentioned that emails could be intercepted.
Key Currency called back the following day. The details were confirmed again. Mr B said 
that all he had was the details of how to pay the amount. Key Currency said that was fine  
they just needed the sort code and account number. The account number and sort code 
were read out again and Mr B said that both were correct.
Unfortunately, the payment actually went to an account controlled by fraudsters. The 
following month, the university reported that it hadnt received Mr Bs money. He contacted 
Key Currency to report the matter. It was able to recover just over £5,000. However, the 
other funds had been spent.
Mr B complained to Key Currency. He said that he wasnt sure how the payment had 
happened. Key Currency explained that theyd confirmed the account details over the phone 
twice and so couldnt be held responsible for his loss.
Mr B referred the matter to our service but one of our investigators didnt uphold it. They 
were of the view that although the instruction to pay the fraudulent account was initially 
unauthorised, Mr B had subsequently authorised the payment in the two calls that Key 
Currency had with him. 
Mr B disagreed, in summary he said:
- He believed throughout that the account details being read out were those of the 
university.
- Mr B had discussed the portal with Key Currency previously  so they knew thats 
how the payment needed to be made and they assured him theyd help him make the 
payment in this way. 
- He was inexperienced technologically and was assured by Key Currency that his 
payment would reach its destination.
- He trusted the adviser and believed he was a senior member of staff.
- More money might have been recovered had Key Currency realised that hed been 
the victim of a scam when he first reported the matter and they ought to have 
realised this because there was a spelling mistake in the fraudulent email. 
- Although he accepts some blame for what happened, Key Currency as an authorised 
financial business should have a higher standard of competence.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sympathetic towards Mr B position, this was a deeply unfortunate and largely avoidable 
set of circumstances. 
That said, its very hard to see how Key Currency could be responsible for Mr Bs loss  in 
full or in part. Ill explain why.
The starting point in law (and Key Currencys terms and conditions) is that Mr B is 
responsible for payment instructions hes given himself. At first that wasnt the case here  
he did not send the fraudulent email and had Key Currency made the payment without 
having contacted him, it would likely be it, rather than him, that would be responsible for the 
loss.
But that isnt what happened. Key Currency called him twice to confirm those details for the 
very purpose of preventing a scam of this nature. In the first call it recognised that Mr B 
didnt have the account details to hand and, despite his willingness for the payment to go 
ahead, advised that it would have to call back the following day. When it did call back, Mr B 
confirmed the account details again and also confirmed that those account details were in 
front of him. I think those conversations fairly and reasonably amounted to an instruction to 
pay the fraudulent account details. I dont doubt that Mr B believed that the account details 
were correct and that the details they read out to him must have been obtained via the link 
hed sent. But, Im afraid, given his responses during those calls, I think Key Currency can 
fairly consider this payment to be authorised by Mr B.
Ive also thought about whether Key Currency could reasonably be held responsible for 
failing to prevent the scam. 
Mr B says that he previously discussed the portal with Key Currency. Its also clear from the 
first email that Mr B sent to Key Currency that the payment needed to be made by following 
the link contained within that email. Its not clear whether Key Currency would have been 
able to make the payment using that link but the email that it sent to Mr B asking for account 
details may have been entirely unnecessary.  So, I accept that Key Currency probably ought 
to have simply followed the instructions in the initial email or, when it contacted Mr B to 
confirm the account details, mentioned that it hadnt or couldnt pay the fees using that link. 
But, Im afraid, I dont think either of those facts override what happened in the calls and the crucial omissions by Mr B that he didnt actually have the account details to hand and didnt 
know what they were. Because of his statements and omissions, at the point the payment 
was made, I dont think there were any substantive grounds for Key Currency to believe that 
a scam was taking place. 
I dont wish Mr B to feel any worse about what happened, but Im afraid I just cant see a way 
in which Key Currency are responsible for this loss, regardless of the accepted asymmetry in 
the levels of knowledge between him and it.
 
In relation to recovery, I can see that all of the funds, apart from those which were returned, 
were removed from the account which received them within a week or so of being received. 
So, even if Key Currency did delay recalling the money, it wouldnt have made any 
difference to Mr Bs position, as he didnt become aware of the issue until after those funds 
had been removed.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman