DRN-2967085
The complaint
Mr F complains that Creditstar UK Limited was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr F was provided with two loans by Creditstar in October 2017. The first loan was for £295 
which he repaid and then took out a second loan for £400 the next day. The second loan 
was repayable over six monthly instalments.
Mr F says that at the time of the loans he had other short term loans outstanding. He says 
that had Creditstar carried out adequate checks it would have realised he was in financial 
difficulty. 
Creditstar says that before the loans were provided if carried out credit and affordability 
checks. It says that the credit checks didnt raise any concerns and that based on the 
information it received the loan repayments were affordable. Therefore, it didnt uphold 
Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought that given Mr F was in the early 
stages of a lending relationship with Creditstar it was reasonable for Creditstar to rely on the 
information it received. He didnt think this information meant that further verification was 
needed and considered the checks carried out as proportionate. 
Mr F didnt agree with our adjudicators view. He reiterated that had a credit check been 
carried out then Creditstar would have seen he had other loans outstanding and had 
adverse information recorded about his payments. He also thought that taking a second loan 
out within days of repaying the first should have shown he was struggling financially. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Creditstar needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr F could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Creditstar should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Creditstar was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Before the loans were provided, Creditstar gathered information about Mr Fs income and 
expenses and carried out credit checks. I think these checks were proportionate given the 
stage in the lending relationship.
A call took place before the first loan was provided on which Mr F said his monthly income 
was £1,800 and his expenses between £800 and £1,000. He was asked about his credit 
commitments and said he had credit cards on which he was making the minimum 
repayments totalling about £10 and a loan with repayments of £62. I can see from the 
affordability information in Mr Fs application that he recorded housing costs of £350 and 
monthly expenses of £1,000. It isnt clear if the housing cost was intended to be included in 
the monthly expenses (as would be suggested by the expenses amount Mr F gave on the 
telephone call) however, taking these as separate costs and including the £72 as an 
additional cost still suggested the loan was affordable.
I have looked through the credit information gathered before Mr F was provided with the first 
loan and this shows he was making use of other short term loan providers. I can see he had 
taken out other loans shortly before this loan but based on the information included in the 
report I do not find that this was enough to say that Creditstar shouldnt have provided the 
loan. 
Mr F repaid the first loan on time and then took out a larger loan that was repayable over six 
instalments. The loan appeared affordable based on the information Mr F had supplied and I find it reasonable at this stage in the lending relationship that Creditstar relied on this 
information. Given the second loan was taken out in the same month as the first the credit 
search provided similar information and while, as noted above, there were other 
commitments recorded, I do not find that the credit search raised concerns that required 
further investigation at this stage.
Therefore, on balance, given there were only two loans and the first was repaid before the 
second was provided and noting the size of repayments compared to Mr Fs declared 
income, I think the checks carried out before the loans were provided were proportionate. As 
these suggested the loan repayments were affordable for Mr F I do not find that I have 
enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Creditstar UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman