DRN-2573918
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about the price they paid for their premium while they held a 
home insurance policy with St Andrews Insurance Plc.
All reference to St Andrews includes its agents.
What happened
In 2009 Mr and Mrs R bought a home insurance policy through their bank with the 
underwriter, St Andrews. They renewed their policy each year until in 2019 they found a 
cheaper policy with St Andrews online after speaking to an agent. The agent advised them 
that St Andrews was no longer offering the policy Mr and Mrs R were paying for and that an 
alternative policy had become available a few years before. 
Mr and Mrs R complained to St Andrews. They believed they had overpaid for their policy 
for years despite remaining as a loyal customer. They thought St Andrews should have 
offered them the alternative policy when it came onto the market. They wanted St Andrews 
to refund the difference they said theyd overpaid.
St Andrews said it had correctly calculated their premium and so it didnt uphold their 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs R asked us to look at their complaint. Our investigator explained that we dont 
tell a business what to charge for its policies. But having looked at whether St Andrews had 
treated Mr and Mrs R fairly, he found that it had.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree and would like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
St Andrews as the underwriter of the policy sets the price Mr and Mrs R paid under their 
policy. I think its important for me to explain that our role isnt to tell a business what it 
should charge its customers for insurance products. But I can look at whether St Andrews 
treated Mr and Mrs R fairly during the time theyve held their home insurance policy with it.
With automatic renewals there is a chance that if customers dont engage with the renewal 
process or shop around for other suitable policies, they may find themselves in a position 
where they are paying much more for their cover than a new customer would pay for a 
similar policy. 
A business hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing the insurance premium at 
renewal. There are often risk-related reasons associated with the various insurers of the 
policy for doing so. And industry increases over time can also play a part.
I can see that the premium increased from £321.59 a year in 2009 to £633.36 in 2019. St 
Andrews has provided us with its calculation and detailed explanation of the price Mr and 
Mrs R paid each year. As this is commercially sensitive information, I cant share it with Mr 
and Mrs R. But this service can check if the calculations show that a business treated a 
customer fairly. Im satisfied from the information St Andrews has provided that it did.
I think its worth mentioning that there would have been many external factors involved in the 
price increases over the years - such as increases in insurance premium tax rates 
(increased from 5% to 12%) and the impact of inflation. Mr and Mrs R held a policy with St 
Andrews for ten years, which is a long time. So I dont think it was unreasonable that the 
cost of their premium would have risen over the years, to take these factors into account. 
So, while there have been increases to the premiums over the years, I think there were 
legitimate reasons behind the premium increases.
Mr and Mrs R were able to obtain an alternative policy with St Andrews for a lot less than 
they were paying in 2019. So Mr and Mrs R dont believe St Andrews has treated them 
fairly. 
New policies often come with a significant initial discount which insurers aim to recoup over 
the years through customer retention. This is often referred to as new customer discount 
and has the effect of reducing the initial cost of the insurance policy. And businesses can 
also offer their customers discounts with the aim of retaining their existing customers. This is 
something businesses may do at their own discretion and we wouldnt consider it unfair. So I 
dont doubt that Mr and Mrs R were able to obtain cheaper insurance by engaging with St 
Andrews.
More recently, online practices and price comparison websites have resulted in insurers 
offering slightly more competitive prices. Some customers can now manage their policies 
online and this can reduce administrative costs to insurers, which in turn means savings 
applied to the reduction offered to customers.
We do need to be careful when comparing the cost of insurance policies, as there may be 
some known and possibly some unknown factors that could impact on the overall cost of the 
policy. For example in this case, Mr and Mrs R told us the premium they paid under the 
alternative policy in 2019 was cheaper by paying for the year up front in full, rather than in 
monthly instalments.
Mr and Mrs R feel St Andrews should have made them aware of the new product it 
launched in 2016 which was cheaper. We wouldnt expect an insurer to advise all customers 
each time it releases a new product, unless the customer engaged with it about the policy 
and the price. 
All of the factors Ive mentioned mean that the cost of the policy Mr and Mrs R held with St 
Andrews and renewed in subsequent years, would be different to the cost of a policy taken 
out more recently  even if that policy was also underwritten by St Andrews. So, although 
Mr and Mrs R could take out a policy at a much lower cost today, for the reasons explained, I 
dont think it would be fair to compare the cost of different policies taken out at different times 
as if they were like-for-like.
I understand Mr and Mrs R are disappointed with St Andrews decision. But I think it acted 
fairly. And so this means I dont think it needs to provide a refund. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman