DRN-2239703
The complaint
In summary, Mrs M complains that Cavendish Online Limited, didnt set up her stakeholder 
pension policy correctly. She paid it a fee to receive a discount on her pensions annual 
management charge (AMC). And she wasnt told that Cavendish had received commission.
What happened
In January 2008, Mrs M set up a stakeholder pension using Cavendish. She paid it a £25 fee 
so she could benefit through using it, a discount on the product providers standard AMC of 
1% a year. The discount would result in an AMC of 0.55% for single contributions and 0.64% 
on regular contributions. The plan was set up without Cavendish giving Mrs M any advice. 
Cavendish said that in December 2008 it noticed that the product provider had been paying 
it commission in respect of Mrs Ms pension plan. It asked the product provider to stop 
paying it commission. 
The product provider explained that this was because Mrs Ms employer had begun to make 
regular contributions into her plan. Cavendish said that commission was taken back by the 
product provider in March and April 2011. 
In 2012 Mrs M contacted Cavendish as she had noticed that the AMC on her pension policy 
was higher than it should have been. It raised this with the product provider. The product 
provider said that the AMC had been set up incorrectly by it and it would rewrite Mrs Ms 
policy to reflect the correct AMC from the outset. This was done by an allocation of additional 
units to Mrs Ms policy to reflect the discounted AMC on regular and single premium 
contributions. 
Mrs M transferred her pension to a different provider in 2017. She subsequently wrote to 
Cavendish in 2018 about her concerns regarding the AMC that she had been charged on the 
transferred pension policy. She was concerned that the discounted AMC on regular 
premiums had been stopped when those regular contributions stopped being made before 
the policy was transferred. She thought Cavendish may have been responsible for this and 
hadnt explained this to her.
Cavendish looked into Mrs Ms concerns. It explained that it didnt think it was responsible 
for the discounted AMC being removed.
 
Mrs Ms complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. She explained why she didnt 
think Cavendish was responsible for the pension being set up incorrectly by the product 
provider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mrs M has had problems with the discounted AMC thats been applied 
to her pension policy. Shes had considerable exchanges of correspondence with the 
product provider. And Im aware having also reviewed her complaint about the product 
provider, that it accepted it made mistakes when it set up her policy and, in the information, it 
gave her. 
Mrs M paid a £25 fee to Cavendish. The purpose of this was so that as a result of Cavendish 
giving up any commission it might receive from the product provider, Mrs M would benefit 
from the discounted AMC. The covering letter from Cavendish when the policy was set up in 
2008, made clear that all commission is to be reinvested wherever possible. 
A few weeks after the policy was set up, Mrs Ms employer wrote directly to the product 
provider to set up regular contributions into the plan. Ive seen no evidence that the product 
provider told Cavendish about this at the time or asked it how any commission should be 
paid in respect of these regular contributions. 
Im satisfied from the information Ive seen, that Cavendish explained to the product provider 
that it wanted the commission to be reinvested into the pension plan wherever possible. And 
Im also satisfied that the purpose of doing that was so that the plan would benefit from a 
discounted AMC on regular and single premium contributions. Im persuaded from the 
information provided, that Mrs M did get the discounted AMC on her plan as a result of 
Cavendish giving up the commission it might otherwise have received. 
The product provider has accepted that it incorrectly set up Mrs Ms pension and Im 
convinced from everything Ive reviewed, that the problems Mrs M has experienced are as a 
result of the mistakes made by the product provider. And I dont think Cavendish did 
anything wrong when the pension policy was set up.
Mrs M thinks Cavendish should have told her that it had received commission from the 
product provider. Whilst it could have, I dont think it necessarily needed to. I say this 
because Cavendish had no ongoing relationship with Mrs M. It had set up the policy for her 
on an execution only basis and wasnt providing her with any ongoing advice or service. 
It had asked the product provider to take the commission back and did so on other 
occasions when this was received.  Although there was reference in correspondence to the 
reinvesting of any commission, I dont think Mrs M had any entitlement to any commission 
Cavendish may have been paid or clawed back by the product provider. I say this because 
Mrs Ms agreement with Cavendish was that as a result of her paying it a fee, it would 
arrange a discounted AMC for her pension with the product provider. And this is what it did. 
If any clawed back commission was paid back into Mrs Ms pension, she would in effect be 
benefitting twice. This is because she would have had the benefit of the discounted AMC 
(which she had paid a fee for), and an additional contribution paid into her pension in the 
form of commission that had been given up by Cavendish. So, for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I think Cavendish did what it needed to when it set up the policy and arranged a 
discounted AMC for Mrs Ms pension policy. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman