DRN-3216398
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC has failed to answer their queries about 
their mortgage account and are concerned about an extra payment being added to the term 
of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs L want Barclays to honour what they were previously said that 
the mortgage would end in August or September 2025 and an explanation of the compound 
effect of a missing payment on their mortgage account.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2014. The term was for 12 years until 
January 2026. In January 2021 Mr and Mrs L received similar letters separately from 
Barclays. The content of the letter is at the centre of this dispute and so Ive set out a lengthy 
passage from that to Mr L:
We have discovered that, following changes made to the Banks Mortgage systems in 2012, 
your first monthly repayment may not have been taken as early as you might have expected. 
This is because we needed to give you sufficient notice of your first monthly repayment 
before collecting it. As a result, you did not make a capital reduction in the month 
immediately following drawdown of your mortgage, but instead this happened in the second 
month. This may have resulted in you paying more interest than you could have done if an 
earlier payment had been possible, and also means that the scheduled final repayment date 
will fall one month later than you might have expected. Please note, this is a timing issue 
only and as such, the total number of repayments you are due to make is not affected. 
Due to the potential misunderstanding we are going to refund the difference between the 
interest that you have paid and the interest you could have paid had a capital reduction been 
made in the month following drawdown of your mortgage. 
The total refund due is £67.84 (the Refund Amount).
The letter went on to say that to bring forward the final repayment date that Mr and Mrs L 
could make an additional optional capital repayment. The letter contained information about 
how the refund would be made. It ended with a section about getting independent advice if 
they would like to speak to someone else about their financial commitments. 
Mr and Mrs L reviewed their mortgage documents and the first payment notice dated 30 
January 2014 states the first payment was due on 1 March 2014 and the annual statement 
dated 10 October 2014 shows this payment was collected on 3 March 2014 so they didnt 
believe that theyd missed the first payment.  So, as Mr and Mrs L made the first payment on 
3 March 2014 as instructed, they couldnt understand why they were being asked to make 
an additional payment.
Mr and Mrs L also made overpayments to their mortgage between 1 March 2017 and 1 
September 2018, which should have reduced the mortgage term by five or six months.
In its final response letter, Barclays says that a final payment will be due in October
2025. But Mr and Mrs L say that the final payment should be due in August or September 
2025.
Mr and Mrs L asked Barclays to provide any details of the calculations or explanations but 
say that Barclays in its final response merely clarified their questions but failed to answer 
them. Mr and Mrs L say that they lost out financially because one extra payment has been 
added to the term and they will be paying extra interest on that payment for the whole term 
of the mortgage. This has caused them a lot of stress and anxiety and they say it has made 
retirement planning impossible. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she felt that 
Barclays hadnt made any error with the refund, maturity date or letters. Mr and Mrs L 
disagree. They want Barclays to honour what that were previously told which was that their 
additional payments would result in the mortgage ending in August or September 2025. 
They also say that Barclays has extended the mortgage term from 12 years to 12 years and 
one month so that they are worse off by the extra payment of £880.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that during the course of this complaint there has been continuous interaction 
between our investigator and Mr and Mrs L, and our investigator has been eliciting 
information from Barclays about the operation of their mortgage account and providing 
detailed responses to Mr and Mrs Ls questions. I hope that has been helpful to Mr and Mrs 
L.
My role is to decide whether this complaint should be upheld. In his email to us of 12 
December 2021 Mr L days that the complaint  arose from the confusion which he says was 
contained in Barclays letter of January and then the change to the mortgage statement 
online which added one month to the mortgage term.
Ive looked at this letter again. Mr and Mrs L got a mortgage offer which described the 
contractual term as 12 years. Over that time Mr and Mrs L were required to make 144 
monthly payments. From the letter it  seems that Barclays had some issue in setting up a 
process for collecting the first payment in the month following drawdown and instead of 
collecting the first payment in February 2014, it collected the first payment in March and 
indeed gave Notice to Mr and Mrs L at that time of that.
The issue that prevented collection in February was the working of the direct debit system 
that meant that if there was a mortgage drawdown at the end of January, a direct debit 
couldnt be set up in time to collect the payment for the first February - so it was set up for 
the beginning of March. As there were to be 144 payments, those payments would start in 
March and not in February. So, I understand the effect of Barclays letter of January 2021 to 
be offering a choice to Mr and Mrs L to either have a mortgage with 144 payments beginning 
in February 2014 by making the February 2014 payment at that stage or continue with the 
existing set up. In either case, they would be compensated to that date for any extra interest 
they may have paid by Barclays not collecting the first payment in February. It seems to me 
that the crucial factor here is that either way, Mr and Mrs L would have had to make 144 
payments under the terms of the mortgage and Barclays wasnt increasing that number of 
payments. So, I cant say that Barclays did anything wrong by not collecting the payment 
initially in February 2014 but even if there was the offer in the January 2021 letter is in my 
view a fair resolution.   
I think it might have been helpful for Barclays to have highlighted the difficulties with the direct debit system in the January letter. I note in his email to us of 20 December 2021 that 
Mr and Mrs L were disturbed by the suggestion that they missed a payment. But the January 
letter doesnt say that, and I cant see in it any suggestion that a payment was missed or that 
Mr and Mrs L were somehow in default of their obligations which they clearly werent. As no 
payment was missed, there would be no effect on their credit file which I understand was a 
particular concern of Mrs L. There is a reference in the letter to the possibility of assistance if 
they were concerned about their financial commitments from a debt helpline. Debt wasnt an 
issue for Mr and Mrs L, but I can understand why Barclays might want to include it as debt 
may be a problem for others who received similar letters.
The other question is the date that this mortgage is to end. I see that in December 2021, 
Barclays told us that based on current repayments and interest rates, the mortgage is 
predicted to mature in September 2025 which I understand is in line with Mr and Mrs Ls 
expectations. I also see that in the final response letter that Barclays had indicated that the 
final repayment date was October 2025 but now accept that it is the earlier date. I also note 
that there has been an issue about the account to be used for the payment of the refund. 
There has certainly been some service issues and I see Barclays has offered £50 for those 
which I consider appropriate. But in respect of the major issue, Im clear that Barclays wasnt 
asking Mr and Mrs L to make one more payment beyond the 144 that they were required to 
make under the terms of the mortgage and so, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman