DRN-3372213
The complaint
A charity Ill refer to as L complains that HSBC Bank UK PLC (HSBC) refused to re-open a 
dormant account, and declined to open a new account for the charity.
L is represented by one of its trustees, Mr B.
What happened
L had a bank account with HSBC that it didnt use for a number of years. Because it was 
dormant, HSBC wrote to L on 26 January 2017 saying it would close the account if L didnt 
reply, given it had been dormant for over a year. L didnt reply, so HSBC closed the account.
In February 2021, L wanted to increase its charitable activities so it asked HSBC to re-open 
its account or open a new account. It was against HSBCs policy to reopen an account in 
such circumstances, so it started its new account opening process. After HSBC had 
discussions with Ls representatives and requested various documents, it declined to open a 
new account. 
Mr B complained, but HSBC said it had followed its internal procedure correctly and declined 
to disclose the reasons for its decision, due to the sensitive nature of the criteria it had 
applied. Mr B remained unhappy and felt he had been discriminated against, so he brought 
his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ls complaint. She said HSBC had followed its procedures 
correctly and hadnt made an error in rejecting Ls application. Mr B didnt agree, so he 
asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks are entitled to decide for themselves whether to do business or continue doing 
business with a customer if they dont consider it appropriate to do so. Thats because they 
have the commercial freedom to decide who they want as a customer. And unless theres a 
good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But 
they shouldnt decline to open an account in circumstances where they dont have a  proper 
reason, for instance of unfair bias or unlawful discrimination. And they must treat new and 
existing customers fairly.
In terms of discrimination, its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or 
not  thats a matter for the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. In order to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into 
account including relevant law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not HSBC has breached the Equality Act 
2010, were required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst 
other things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint.
HSBC has explained that it is a normal part of its process to carry out further checks after it 
receives an account application. Ive looked at the process HSBC followed and I havent 
seen anything to suggest that it treated Ls application differently. Following completion of 
these checks HSBC decided not to open an account for L. 
HSBC is entitled to do this, so whilst I can appreciate Mr B is no doubt upset, I dont think 
HSBC acted unfairly when it decided not to offer L banking services. And Im not going to 
ask HSBC to reopen Ls account, or grant it a new one.
Mr B has explained L hasnt tried to open an account elsewhere, because he thinks Ls 
application will be treated with suspicion in light of HSBCs decision. Notwithstanding my 
decision that HSBC didnt treat L unfairly, unless and until L applies to other banks, it wont 
know how its application will be treated. And Ive seen nothing to suggest HSBCs decision 
will unfairly prejudice any future applications L wishes to make.
I recognise how strongly Mr B feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it was a 
frustrating and upsetting time. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But 
overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say HSBC has acted unreasonably and 
treated L unfairly in choosing not to open an account for L. So, I wont ask HSBC to do 
anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman