DRN-3313751
The complaint
Mr T complains because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid the full amount of 
his travel insurance claim for a trip that was cut short.
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr T held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by URV. The policy was purchased 
in July 2019. 
Unfortunately, while Mr T was abroad, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development 
Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all 
but essential international travel due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. The 
country which Mr T was visiting also began to introduce restrictions on movement. On 23 
March 2020, the FCDO advised all British tourists abroad to return to the UK. 
Mr T was originally due to return to the UK on 3 April 2020, but his airline cancelled his flight. 
A replacement flight which was intended to depart on 28 March 2020 was also cancelled. 
Instead, Mr T purchased a new return flight, departing on 24 March 2020. 
Mr T made a claim under his policy with URV for both his unused and his additional 
expenses. URV initially said Mr Ts policy didnt provide cover for the circumstances he 
found himself in. However, URV subsequently paid Mr T £1,000 under the Catastrophe 
section of his cover. 
Unhappy, Mr T complained to URV before bringing the matter to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She said, although Mr Ts claim 
wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of his policy, she thought it would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances for URV to assess the claim under the curtailment section 
of cover regardless. URV didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has 
been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint.
The policy documentation
Page 1 of the Insurance Production Information Document (IPID), which summarises the
cover available under Mr Ts policy with URV, says:
! Are there any restrictions on cover? 
! Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your
destination.
The policy terms and conditions, at page 12 under the heading What is not covered 
applicable to all sections of the policy says:
We will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly from: 
14. Travelling against FCO advice
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the Travel Advice Unit of the
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or regulatory authority in a country to/from
which you are travelling has advised against all or all but essential travel.
Page 17 of the policy terms and conditions, under the heading Section B1  Curtailment
charges sets out the cover available if a policyholder has to come home early from their trip.
The terms and conditions say URV will pay certain irrecoverable unused and reasonable 
additional costs if a trip is curtailed for one of the following reasons:
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease or complications arising as a direct result
of pregnancy of:
a) you
b) any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with
c) any person who you have arranged to stay with
d) your close relative
e) your close business associate.
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance.
3. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance
Services or employees of a Government Department and have your/their authorised
leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, provided that the
curtailment could not reasonably have been expected at the time when you
purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip.
4. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home due
to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, flood,
subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or theft.
No insurance policy covers every situation, and different travel insurance policies often 
provide different cover for certain scenarios, based on the level of risk which a particular 
insurer is prepared to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. The fact that a 
certain situation may have been covered under Mr Ts wifes policy with a different insurer 
doesnt mean URV is obliged to pay a claim in the same circumstances. 
Ive thought about the reason why Mr T cut short his trip. I dont think this was because he 
was quarantined. Instead, Mr T said the reason his trip was cut short was because his return 
flight was cancelled twice as a result of restrictions imposed due to Covid-19.
An airline cancelling a flight isnt covered under the terms and conditions of the curtailmentsection of Mr Ts policy, as its not a specific or listed insured event. This means Mr Ts 
curtailment claim isnt covered under his policy with URV
Whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
However, I have an overriding remit to make a decision based on what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. Ive taken into account the relevant law and 
industry guidelines and I dont think a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions 
leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case.
At the time Mr T cut short his trip, the FCDO was advising all British travellers who were 
abroad at the time to return to the UK. The policy exclusion outlined on page 12 of the terms 
and conditions excludes cover under any section of the policy if a policyholder is travelling 
against FCDO advice. This means, based on the information Ive seen, I think its most likely 
that Mr T wasnt covered by the policy terms and conditions at all after FCDO advice 
changed, advising travellers to return to the UK on 23 March 2020.
But, under the terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy, curtailment of a trip due to changes in
FCDO guidance also isnt covered. This means Mr T was left in a situation where he had no 
cover while he was abroad after 23 March 2020, but he also had no cover if he cut short his 
trip. I dont think this was made sufficiently clear to Mr T in his policy documentation.
Mr T would need to have read the full policy terms and conditions in order to understand that 
this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think this information was brought to 
his attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I dont think the combined effect of the 
policy terms were made sufficiently clear to him.
I think this created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr T and URV. I think 
its unlikely Mr T would have purchased this policy if he had realised there was no cover if 
FCDO guidance changed after he bought the policy and/or commenced his trip. And, Im 
satisfied that travel insurance policies provided by other insurers which did cover curtailment 
claims arising from changes to FCDO advice were available on the market at the time Mr T 
bought this policy in July 2019. So, I think its likely Mr T would have been able to buy 
alternative insurance which did cover the circumstances he ultimately found himself in.
Ive taken into account the comments which URV made in response to our investigators 
recommendations, but these dont change my decision.
I therefore think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for URV to accept Mr 
Ts claim outside of a strict interpretation of the policy terms and conditions, and to consider 
his claim under Section B1 - Curtailment charges. I understand Mr T was in 
correspondence with URV over a period of nine months in an attempt to have his claim paid, 
but Im satisfied that a direction for URV to consider the claim is a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances. 
I note that URV has already paid Mr T the applicable policy limit of £1,000 under Section 
B10  Catastrophe. Having considered what this section of the policy covers, and the events 
of 21 March 2020 which Mr T has described, I think it was fair and reasonable for URV to 
make this payment. 
When assessing Mr Ts claim under the B1 - Curtailment charges, URV is entitled to take 
the remaining policy exclusions, policy excesses and/or policy limits into account. I note that 
Section B10 of the policy says costs can only be claimed for under Section B1 or Section 
B10 for the same event. I also note that Section B1 of the policy contains an exclusion for 
any curtailment travel costs that are not to the same standard as your original return tickets.It's for URV to now calculate the amount of any settlement due to Mr T. If theres a 
subsequent dispute about the amount of that settlement, Mr T would need to raise a 
complaint with URV in the first instance before this service would have the power to consider 
the matter. 
Putting things right
I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to treat Mr Ts claim as covered under the curtailment 
section of his policy. 
Union Reiseversicherung AG should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ts complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and I direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman