DRN-3388862
The complaint
Mr H complains about Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) for omitting end date 
information from an offer he received through his banking app. He wants Nationwide to 
change his terms to offer the balance transfer rate for 18 months from the end of the offer, 
rather than from the date when he transferred his balance. 
What happened
Mr H had a credit card with another provider, which had a promotional rate on his balance. 
In October 2021, Mr H was using his Nationwide banking app and received an offer for a 
balance transfer rate for 18 months. 
The information on the app did not display an offer end date. 
Mr H decided to take up the offer and applied with Nationwide. His balance was then 
transferred from the other account. 
Mr H subsequently learned that the offer has remained open until the end of December 
2021, meaning he could potentially have waited to apply, and made more efficient use of his 
existing offer and the new offer together. 
He complained to Nationwide. He spoke with other banks and was informed that offer dates 
need to be clear to consumers. 
Nationwide responded to him not upholding his complaint. Nationwide indicated that his 
comments would be fed back to the relevant teams but it did not consider that it had done 
anything wrong. 
Mr H was not happy with this and contacted us. He noted that Nationwide subsequently 
updated its website which showed an end date to offers. 
Our investigator has looked into this matter and did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. They 
thought that the advert had not given an impression of particular urgency and did not think 
that Mr H had been treated unfairly. They did not recommend nationwide do anything further. 
Mr H did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Hs upset about this matter. He has explained that he felt that he had limited 
time to take up the offer and, on balance, it was better to take it up then rather than risk 
missing out on the offer. To then find out that he could have had longer to make up his mind, 
and that he could have arranged his finances in a more economical way must have been 
frustrating. 
I do, however, agree with my colleagues view that Nationwide has not done anything 
substantially wrong. 
My colleague explained that we do not directly enforce regulations against financial 
businesses as that is the role of the regulator. We can take into account industry practice 
and standards, btu these are not necessarily determinative of a complaint. Our test is 
whether the business has treated consumers fairly and reasonably in their individual 
circumstances. Where they have not been fair, we can ask the business to take action or 
pay compensation, but where they have behaved fairly we do not take any further action. 
In this instance, Mr H has pointed to the fact that the offer actually remained available until 
the end of December 2021. He has provided screen grabs showing that transfers had to be 
made by 3 January 2022 to meet the offer terms. I understand from this that if a consumer 
applied for the card and was successful, then any balances they transferred by 3 January 
2022 would be honoured at the promotional interest rate for the relevant 18 month period, 
rather than that the 18 month offer would continue to be available for that time. 
That same screen grab detailed that the business reserved the right to withdraw or vary 
offers at any time. 
I therefore consider that, even though the offer actually remained available after Mr H 
applied in October 2021, it was not guaranteed to continue to be available. Nationwide could 
have withdrawn the offer or changed the rate offered at any time, and only once an 
agreement was made between the parties was it binding on them. 
I therefore do not agree that Mr H could necessarily have applied and transferred his 
balance at a later date, or that he has lost out as a result of his decision to apply in October 
2021 as Nationwide could have withdrawn or changed its offer and he could have missed it. 
As no date was given for the offer on the app, I do not think that Nationwide misled Mr H 
through the offer, and so I do not uphold the complaint. I appreciate that Mr H will be 
disappointed by this decision, but I hope it explains clearly why I have reached it.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and do not ask Nationwide 
Building Society to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman