DRN-1797635
The complaint 
Miss S complaint is about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) and its decision to decline her 
claim under a travel insurance policy taken out online through a broker and renewed 
automatically. Miss S injured her finger while playing beach rugby in a tournament abroad, 
and said before going to a hospital for treatment IPA told her that her claim was covered as 
she had been playing a beach game, but it then declined her claim on the basis that rugby 
was specially excluded unless an additional premium had been paid. Miss S also said that 
when taking out the policy, she asked if beach rugby was covered, and was told that it was; 
she felt that she had been misled.
IPA pointed out that the policy had been taken out through an aggregator website, and 
denied that thered been any discussion about covering rugby through the inclusion of beach 
games. It also said that when Miss S contacted it about the accident, she wasnt told that her 
claim would be covered, but IPA accepted that it shouldve said earlier rugby wasnt covered 
and offered £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by this. It explained that as 
Miss S had been playing beach rugby as a part of a rugby tour she was on (this was an 
optional part of the tour), it was not covered as a beach game as it was an organised 
sporting activity being played on a beach, which wasnt the same thing as a casual beach 
game.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The terms and conditions of the policy say that it doesnt cover sports and activities 
unless the sport is specifically included in the policy or the policy schedule. Rugby is 
not included, but beach games are. Theres no definition of beach games, so I have 
to think about whats fair and reasonable for IPA to say is and isnt beach games.
IPA says that an organised sporting activity, such as a tournament, isnt a beach 
games just because its played on a beach. I note that the list of included sports dont 
seem to include sports with a high degree of contact, such as rugby. A reasonable 
view of the phrase beach games is games played non-competitively for fun 
amongst friends, family or acquaintances; this seems to be broadly the definition IPA 
has applied  the definition excludes competitive sports. And I dont think beach 
rugby, which is likely to involve high levels of contact, is similar to other sports 
included without charge.
Im satisfied that the policy does make it clear that rugby isnt covered unless an 
additional premium is paid to be covered. I also think that it was fair and reasonable 
for IPA to find that beach rugby, played by someone on a competitive rugby tour with 
some of her team-mates, isnt a beach game covered by the policy.Miss S says that the policy was mis-sold, but IPA didnt sell the policy to her. And the 
policy clearly set out what was and wasnt covered, which is what IPA was required 
to do.
Having looked at the evidence available to me, I cant find that Miss S was told by 
IPA that her claim would be accepted when she contacted IPA; it simply opened a 
case for her. But I note IPA accepts that it shouldve told her sooner that the claim 
wouldnt be accepted due to nature of the sport Miss S was playing when the injury 
occurred, and I agree. Much of Miss S trouble and upset is about the claim being 
declined, for which I havent found IPA to be at fault. In all the circumstances, £100 is 
fair and reasonable compensation for the delayed explanation why the claim would 
be declined.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Inter Partner Assistance SA. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman