DRN-2136981
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) are holding him liable for 
a credit card debt that he says he didnt take out.
What happened
In June 2017, Mr J says he went to prison. Shortly afterwards, a credit card was opened in 
his name with Halifax. The card was used up to its limit.
Initially, there were payments made towards the card by direct debit and a debit card. But 
these started returning as unpaid, and then stopped. The credit card account was defaulted 
in December 2017.
Mr J says he was released from prison in April 2019, and then in September 2019, he 
discovered letters about this credit card and reported it as ID theft.
Mr J said he only lived with his partner and children, and his post went into a locked porch. 
He later said he had a tenant as well, but he didnt know who they were, and they had their 
own entrance. At a different point, he said they left the porch unlocked sometimes, and the 
tenant had access to their post. In any case, Mr J said he and his partner didnt notice their 
post going missing.
Mr J said that the unknown tenant, or ID thieves, had opened a number of other accounts in 
his name while he was in prison, but they were written off as fraud.
Halifax held Mr J liable for the account in dispute. They said the account was opened using 
Mr Js genuine details including his email and mobile phone. They had concerns about 
whether Mr J really was in prison when he said he was. Theyd spoken to a man about the 
account who was able to pass security and identify himself as Mr J, who confirmed the credit 
card usage was genuine. Payments had come into the account from Mr J, and all the 
correspondence went to his address where his family was.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. She found 
it was unlikely that an unknown thief couldve had access to such a large amount of Mr Js 
genuine details and his methods of contact. She also thought it was unlikely that they 
couldve intercepted every single piece of post before his partner could see it and without 
them noticing the post was going missing. And she felt it was unlikely a known person 
couldve done this, since if Mr J and his tenant didnt even know each others names, then it 
was unlikely the tenant knew all the details needed to open the account.
Mr J didnt agree. He sent in a recent scam email and a notification from his credit reference 
agency saying that one of his passwords was compromised. Then he said there were in fact 
two tenants, and he did know them since before they lived with him.
I sent Mr J and Halifax a provisional decision on 27 July 2020, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Mr J says he could not have set up or used the account, as he was in prison. Hes sent us 
some documents to show this, but they contain a number of spelling, grammar, and 
formatting mistakes and dont look very genuine. The prison service cannot confirm either 
way whether what hes told us is correct. But according to public records, Mr J was 
registered as being present at his address during the time he says he was incarcerated, and 
that shouldnt be the case if he was in prison. Further, Mr Js sole current account was still 
being used for his bill payments, direct debits, parking, shopping and so on after the date he 
says he was imprisoned.
So I am not satisfied that Mr J really was in prison at the time this account was opened. But 
even if I accept that he definitely was imprisoned at the time, I still think its most likely that 
this account was set up with Mr Js permission.
This account was opened using Mr Js name, address, home telephone, mobile phone, 
email address, bank details, property status, mortgage details, and his length of residence. 
And it was paid for using Mr Js genuine current account that hes had since 2006, along with 
a debit card in his name. It is very difficult to see how anyone couldve had access to all of 
this without Mr Js consent.
A card and PIN were sent to Mr Js correct address, along with regular statements and other 
correspondence. And I can see at least five other accounts were opened in Mr Js name 
around the same time, and their correspondence was also sent to Mr Js address. So Mr J or 
his partner shouldve noticed these accounts much earlier  it is very unlikely indeed that 
someone could have intercepted every single piece of post from every single account over 
such a long period. And he says that he and his partner never noticed any post going 
missing.
It doesnt seem likely that a fraudster would use Mr Js genuine contact details to set up the 
account, as that would only risk Mr J or his partner getting contacted by the bank and 
realising something was wrong. And its unclear how someone couldve potentially used his 
email address, mobile phone, and home phone without his knowledge or permission.
Given the amount and sensitivity of the details that were used, and given the sheer amount 
of post that needed to have been intercepted, there isnt a likely way that an unknown party 
did this.
It is possible that someone known to Mr J may have done this without his permission. But 
I dont think its likely.
It seems strange for a fraudster to have made payments into the account. Someone even 
got in touch with Halifax to arrange an alternative payment method when the direct debit 
bounced, and they were able to pass security and identify themselves as Mr J. This seems 
like a lot of effort for a fraudster to go to for no real benefit to themselves, since theyd 
already maxed out the account at that point and didnt use it again. It only risked them 
getting caught out when calling Halifax or when using Mr Js current account. Its much more 
likely that this person was Mr J.The payments to the credit card were made from Mr Js genuine current account and a debit 
card registered to his name, address, and date of birth. Its unclear how a fraudster couldve 
had access to Mr Js account and debit card without his permission, or how he didnt notice 
what was going on earlier. Again, it makes more sense if this was done with Mr Js consent.
Mr J said hed had other accounts opened in his name that were fraudulent. But I can see 
that many of the companies involved found that he had opened those accounts. They cited, 
amongst other things, his signed papers, recordings of calls with him, and correspondence 
via email, post and phone to his genuine contact details.
Mr J says his email may have been accessed using a stolen password, and has sent us a 
recent scam email he received along with a notification from his credit reference agency of a 
possible data breach. But the email is just a generic template, and this has happened 
several years after the credit card was opened, so I dont think this is linked to the credit 
card. It also doesnt explain how they got so much other information, such as details of his 
mortgage, how long hed lived at his address, or access to his mobile phone and current 
account, and so on.
Mr J has explained that a tenant, or possibly two tenants, could have done this. But I still 
dont think its likely that they couldve had so much of Mr Js data  even living in his 
property, much of the information used shouldnt have been available to them. I dont think 
its likely they wouldve gone to such efforts to help pay off the account, either. I also dont 
think its likely that theyve couldve had access to his email, mobile phone, current account 
and debit card, and been able to identify themselves as Mr J by passing the banks security, 
and been able to steal every single piece of related post for so many different accounts over 
a period of years, all without his consent and without anyone else ever noticing something 
was wrong. 
Further, it is very difficult for me to take any of Mr Js versions of events to be correct when 
they have been so contradictory to each other.
In summary, there isnt a likely way an unknown person opened this account, or that 
someone known to Mr J did this without his permission. But there is substantial evidence 
supporting the likelihood that Mr J opened and used the account, or gave someone else 
permission to open or use it on his behalf. So I think thats whats most likely to have 
happened. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for 
Mr J to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to 
reasonably reach any other conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen so far, I currently think its fair for Halifax to hold Mr J liable 
for the debt in dispute.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
25 August 2020. Halifax didnt have anything to add. Mr J sent in a number of points, 
which Ill go through below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I understand Mr Js unhappy with the outcome of our investigators initial investigation, and 
that they made a typo. I have looked at this case afresh, independently from our investigator, 
and I dont think the typo is relevant to the outcome of the case.
Mr Js probation officer has now clarified that he was indeed in prison at the time of these 
transactions. Though as I explained in my provisional decision, I still think its more likely 
than not that he gave his consent for someone to set up this account in his name, even if he 
was then incarcerated. It follows that I think thats why someone was able to identify 
themselves as Mr J when they spoke to Halifax.
Mr J said Halifax werent given enough to identify that the credit card was really his. But per 
my provisional decision, they were given his correct name, address, home telephone, mobile 
phone, email address, bank details, property status, mortgage details, and his length of 
residence; his current account and debit card were used to pay the credit card; and they 
corresponded using his genuine details. So I think they had quite a substantial amount of 
information to identify that the account was his. And per my provisional decision, there isnt a 
likely way someone couldve got access to all of this without Mr Js consent  its much more 
likely that the account was set up with his permission. 
Mr J suggested that the postal correspondence couldve been sent elsewhere. But Halifax 
sent it to his genuine address, not anywhere else. And if all of his households post had been 
redirected, I think he (or his partner while he was away) wouldve noticed if they suddenly 
stopped receiving any post at all for such a long period. But he said they never noticed that 
their post was missing.
Mr J asked for a recording of the call where someone was able to pass security and identify 
themselves as him. I understand why hes asked for this. But call recordings are only held on 
to for a limited time  so the recording is not available anymore.
Mr J asked what alternative payment method was used to pay this credit card when the 
direct debit failed. That was the debit card I mentioned in my provisional decision, which was 
registered to Mr Js genuine name, address, and date of birth.
Mr J questioned why anyone would give someone else their details to set up an account, 
and then go through all the trouble of claiming it was fraudulent and complaining. Usually 
this would be done in order to max out the credit card, share the profits, and then have the 
debt falsely written off as ID theft.
Lastly, Mr J disputed the suggestion that there was substantial evidence the account was 
his, and felt we hadnt sufficiently evidenced that he should be held liable for the debt. But as 
I explained above and in my provisional decision, the evidence includes:
the account using Mr Js genuine personal details, financial details and property 
details, despite the difficulty in getting hold of many of these details without his 
consent
the account using Mr Js genuine contact details, despite the obvious and 
unnecessary risk this would pose to a fraudster
the account being paid using his genuine current account and a debit card registered 
to his name, date of birth, and address
the card and PIN being sent to Mr Js genuine address and both needing to be 
intercepted at the right time
the sheer amount of other correspondence that was sent to his correct address 
across all of the accounts hes now said were fraudulent, without Mr J or his partner 
noticing any of this post earlier or noticing that post was going missingsomeone phoning Halifax and being able to pass security and identify themselves as 
Mr J in order to confirm the transactions were genuine
the fact that someone made payments into the account, despite this giving no benefit 
to a fraudster and instead only risking them getting caught
Mr Js inconsistent and contradictory testimony
that the other companies whose accounts he claimed were fraudulent had also found 
that theyd been opened with his permission
So in summary, there isnt a likely way an unknown person opened this account, or that 
someone known to Mr J did this without his permission. But there is substantial evidence 
supporting the likelihood that Mr J gave someone permission to open and use this account 
on his behalf. So I think thats whats most likely to have happened. And so I think its fair for 
Halifax to hold Mr J liable for the debt in dispute.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Js complaint, for the reasons set out.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman