DRN-2797792
The complaint
Mr V has complained about BISL Limited. He feels it mis-sold him his motor insurance policy 
and provided him with poor service.
What happened
Mr V took out car insurance through a broker, BISL, in August 2019. And he was 
disappointed to find out that he couldnt place a courtesy car on cover when he went to get 
his car serviced at his main dealership. 
He complained to BISL about this. It explained that Mr Vs insurer only offered insurance for 
a courtesy car if his car was in for repair following an accident and not if it was in for a 
service. However, Mr V felt he should be insured under his driving other cars (DOC) 
extension which allowed him to drive other cars under his policy.
BISL explained that he couldnt use the DOC cover in these circumstances as the courtesy 
car the dealership provided wasnt individually insured. And as the courtesy car wasnt 
insured it couldnt offer cover under DOC. But BISL did acknowledge that its service couldve 
been better, apologised and offered £50 compensation. However, Mr V still wasnt happy 
and complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. Although she 
agreed that the service couldve been better she thought BISLs offer of £50 compensation 
was fair. And she didnt think BISL had acted unreasonably in explaining that Mr V couldnt 
use his DOC cover in this instance or that the policy had been mis-sold. 
As Mr V didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint as I dont think BISL mis-sold the policy 
or misinformed him about using the DOC extension. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to him, but Ill explain why.
The dealership offered Mr V a courtesy car for use while he was getting his car serviced and 
Im sure it explained to Mr V that he would need to get his own insurance to use the courtesy 
car. The dealership contacted BISL and asked about getting the courtesy car placed on 
cover but unfortunately Mr Vs insurer wouldnt offer cover. Mr Vs policy only provided cover 
for courtesy cars when his car was in for repair following a claim under the policy as 
opposed to when a car was in for service. 
When Mr V complained that BISL had mis-sold the policy to him he also said that he 
shouldve been covered under the DOC part of his policy. But as our investigator explained 
Mr Vs DOC extension doesnt allow him to drive any car as he wishes. Not all policies have 
DOC cover and to use this extension the other car has to be insured. I know Mr V questions 
why he would need to get insurance to drive a car that is already insured. But, every car 
needs to be insured to legally be used on the road and just because a car is insured doesnt 
mean Mr V would be insured to drive it. 
I say this as although a car may be insured to be used on the road the policy will outline who 
is insured to drive the car (for example the policy holder or a named driver) which wouldnt 
cover Mr V. However, his policy may allow him to use DOC as long as the owner of the 
insured car gives permission.
In this instance the courtesy car that Mr V wanted to use wasnt insured and the dealership 
said that customers have to get courtesy cars insured themselves. It is possible that the car 
was insured but the dealership wouldnt want its cars to only be insured on a third-party 
basis (which is what the DOC extension provides) in any event. The dealership would want 
the courtesy car fully insured (comprehensively) which is why the dealerships representative 
didnt ask about DOC when they called to ask if Mr V could get the courtesy car insured. The 
DOC extension would only have insured Mr V for any damage he caused to others and not 
for any damage he caused to the dealerships car and they wouldnt want to take that risk. 
So, I dont think that Mr V couldve used this part of his policy in any event.
Given all of this, I dont think BISL mis-sold the policy and generally this is how DOC works 
across the motor industry. I know Mr V has also provided a copy of his latest insurance 
policy outlining the DOC extension, but this would have provided the same level of cover as 
the one BISL sold him. And I must highlight that the general intention of DOC is to cover 
emergency type scenarios as opposed to the situation Mr V found himself in here. So, even 
if Mr V took out a policy with DOC elsewhere he wouldve faced the same difficulty. And if 
Mr V has any complaint about the level of cover provided he would have to advance this with 
the insurer who is responsible for the policy and the wording direct, not the broker. 
Finally, although this isnt Mr Vs main complaint, I agree that BISLs service could have 
been better. But I think its offer of apology and to pay Mr V £50 compensation seems fair in 
the circumstances. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman