DRN-3581047
The complaint
Mrs M complains that a car she has been financing through an agreement with Black Horse 
Limited, trading as Land Rover Financial Services (Land Rover) was not of satisfactory 
quality. Shes disappointed with the redress thats been offered.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Mrs M has benefitted from representation during this complaint process but for ease, and 
because Mrs M is the person named on the finance agreement, I will refer only to Mrs M in 
this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs M acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says, amongst other things, 
that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Land 
Rover, who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the 
quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the 
other relevant circumstances. 
Land Rover have accepted that there were faults with this car and as there have been 
previous failed repairs on the car theyve agreed to allow Mrs M to reject it. I think that was 
fair in the circumstances.
Ive therefore reviewed the redress offered by Land Rover to see if its fair in the 
circumstances.
When our service tells a business to reject a car we would usually tell them to end the 
agreement, refund any deposit and provide a refund of the finance instalments less an 
amount that the business could retain in respect of the usage the consumer has had from 
the car. Wed tell the business to pay interest on any refunds as the consumer has been 
deprived of that money and wed often tell the business to pay some compensation in 
respect of the distress and inconvenience caused.
I think Land Rover have done what wed expect of them. Theyve suggested the deposits are 
returned with interest and theyve agreed to refund finance instalments to cover the lack of 
use when Mrs Ms car was in the garage. Theyve also agreed to provide £300 
compensation and they have explained that 8% interest will be paid on the refunds.
I can understand Mrs M frustration as shes had quite extensive problems with the car and is 
now faced with a long wait for a new one. I dont think Land Rover need to consider that wait 
in any detail. I dont think, for instance, that it would be fair to expect them to pay hire car 
charges whilst Mrs M waits for delivery. Land Rover have tried to rectify the breach of 
contract fairly, theyve offered to refund the money Mrs M has paid and not benefitted from 
and theyve acknowledged the distress and inconvenience experienced with a payment. 
Im not therefore asking Land Rover to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman