DRN-3770093
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain about the service they got from U K Insurance Limited (trading as 
Churchill Insurance)(Churchill) when they made a claim on their car insurance policy.
Mr M and Mrs M are named drivers on the policy but, since Mr M is the policyholder, Ill 
mostly refer to him in this decision.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M, together with their two young children, were involved in a car accident with 
a third-party driver. So Mr M made a claim on his car insurance policy, which Churchill 
accepted.
Mr M is unhappy Churchill failed to note his children were in the car at the time of the 
accident, even though he gave Churchill their details when he first notified it of the claim.   
Mr M is also unhappy he had to chase Churchill frequently for updates on the claim.
Churchill upheld Mr Ms complaint. It said the details about Mr M and Mrs Ms children 
shouldve been noted but werent. It apologised to Mr M for its mistake. Churchill also said 
Mr M made numerous calls chasing for updates or asking for clarification on parts of the 
claim. Churchill has offered Mr M £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
these mistakes have caused him. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr M brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked 
at Mr Ms complaint thought Churchill had done enough to put things right for him.
Mr M disagrees. He says chasing Churchill constantly and then finding out it had been 
pursuing his claim based on incorrect facts left him and Mrs M drained. He says its still very 
upsetting. He says he and Mrs M have simply lost trust in Churchill to act in their best 
interests and feel quite worried and unsafe because of how Churchill dealt with their 
personal information.
So Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint has come to me to decide.
Mr M and Mrs M also have another complaint with us about Churchills decision on liability 
for the accident, as well as the time it took to set up their personal injury claim. I understand 
were still investigating this complaint. So, just to be clear, I wont be considering any aspects 
of Mr M and Mrs Ms other complaint in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Churchills offer of £150 in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its mistakes have caused Mr M is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Churchill says Mr M was very upset and emotional at the time he reported the accident 
when telling its call handler his children were also involved. Churchill says discovering later 
that his childrens details had been left off his file caused Mr M distress and may have 
delayed some aspects of the claim. And it accepts that, by not noting them, Mr M was 
caused inconvenience  because his file had to be updated later. And Churchill says Mr M 
had to chase the claims department for updates and to get aspects of the claim progressed, 
which it says took significant time out of Mr Ms day. Churchill says, although its claims team 
tried to keep in touch with Mr M this was insufficient to keep [him] fully informed and aware 
of what was happening with the claim. 
I think Churchill has acted fairly and reasonably in acknowledging the mistakes its made. As 
Ive already noted, its actions clearly caused Mr M distress. And having to chase for updates 
 and get his file updated with his childrens details later on  took extra time for Mr M to sort 
out. This caused him more inconvenience than he might reasonably expect to experience as 
part of making his claim. In these circumstances, I think Churchills offer of £150 in 
compensation is fair and reasonable and in line with what wed expect it to pay for the 
distress and inconvenience its caused.
My final decision
U K Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill Insurance) has already made an offer to pay    
Mr M £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused. I think this 
offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So my decision is that U K Insurance 
Limited (trading as Churchill Insurance) pay Mr M £150.
U K Insurance Limited (trading as Churchill Insurance) should pay this amount within 28 
days of the date we tell it Mr M has accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, U K Insurance 
Limited (trading as Churchill Insurance) must pay interest on it from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple per year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman