DRN-3130315
The complaint
Ms Fs complaint is about the refusal of a claim under her legal expenses policy with Royal & 
Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA). 
All references to RSA include its claims-handling agents.
What happened
Mrs F made a claim under her policy as she wanted to take legal action to recover the costs 
of a university course, as she said the university had breached its contract with her by failing 
to provide adequate supervision and tuition. 
RSA initially refused the claim, as it said the incident Mrs F wanted to take legal action about 
had started before the start of the policy. It was later accepted that Mrs F had had a previous 
policy and so RSA instructed panel solicitors to assess the claim. The solicitors concluded 
that there was no prospect of a successful legal case and so RSA refused to meet the claim.
After Mrs F complained, RSA arranged for the solicitors to review the matter again, in light of 
some further information from Mrs F. The solicitors stood by their opinion that there was no 
actionable breach of contract and there were alternative complaints processes she could 
pursue. The solicitors advised that Mrs F continue the complaints process with the university 
and thereafter she could make a complaint to the Office of the Independent Adjudicator for 
Higher Education, which is the relevant regulatory body.  
RSA said Mrs Fs claim had received two assessments from the solicitors. It also reviewed 
the outcome. RSA said it is entitled to rely on the legal opinion provided by the legal experts 
and without any legal opinion that supported her claim, it would not fund any legal action.  
RSA said it would consider the claim further, if Mrs F was able to provide her own legal 
assessment that said she did have prospects of success. RSA did however, acknowledge 
that it had not told Mrs F it was arranging a review of the solicitors findings and offered £50 
for this. 
Mrs F has raised a complaint about the decision to refuse the claim, which I am dealing with 
in this decision. She has also made separate complaints about the way her claim was 
progressed and handled, which I have dealt with in a separate decision. 
Mrs F has made a number of points in support of her complaint, which Ive summarised 
below: 
she has not been provided with any legal analysis to support the conclusion her case 
has no prospects of succeeding and has asked for evidence of a detailed 
investigation of her case and analysis of the relevant law.
She has the proof to challenge the legal opinion of the panel solicitors based on the 
length of her contract with the university. 
The legal assessment is fraudulent and RSA and the solicitors are abusing legislation 
by stating that there was no breach of contract.
She made several subject access requests to gain access to the evidence used to 
make this decision (including, copies of all communications between the solicitors 
and RSA and a breakdown of case costs) but RSA and the solicitors have refused  to 
show her the sections of legislation used to close her case. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that it be upheld, as 
he was satisfied RSA was entitled to rely on the opinion of the solicitors. 
Mrs F does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F has said RSA refused to provide copies of communications between it and the 
solicitors, and other information, in response to her subject access request. We dont have 
any power to deal with breaches of data protection legislation, or to  investigate whether 
RSA dealt with the data request from Mrs F properly. This is a matter for the Information 
Commissioners Office.
I understand RSA did provide Mrs F with some information about the court fees and costs of 
taking legal action herself, which she had asked for. 
Mrs Fs policy, like all other legal expenses insurance policies, requires that all claims have 
reasonable prospects of success. This is generally interpreted to mean that the legal claim 
must have a more than 51% chance of succeeding. 
As with all insurance claims, it is for the claimant to establish that they have a valid claim 
under the policy. This means that strictly, Mrs F has to establish that she has a legal case, 
within one of the sections of cover in the policy, with a reasonable chance of achieving a 
successful outcome, in order for RSA to be required to fund it. However, in practice most 
legal expenses insurers will pay for an assessment of the legal merits of the case, as they 
are in a better position to do so. RSA did just that, instructing one of its panel solicitors. 
We do not assess the merits of the legal claim  that is not within our expertise. Our remit is 
to assess complaints about regulated activities  such as carrying out an insurance contract. 
Therefore, in a case such as this, we can only assess whether the insurance claim has been 
dealt with fairly. That does not require an assessment of the legal case, but we do weigh up 
all the available evidence, including any legal opinion and if it were patently wrong could ask 
the insurer to take some further action in order to deal with Mrs Fs insurance claim fairly. So 
long as an insurer has obtained independent legal advice on prospects from suitably 
qualified lawyers, we will not generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think 
it was obviously erroneous or based on factual mistakes. I have seen nothing in this case to 
justify such a finding. 
The panel solicitors have said that Mrs Fs prospective legal claim has no reasonable 
chance of succeeding. Mrs F has criticised the solicitors and said they did not provide a full 
legal analysis of her case but I am satisfied they have provided reasoning for their 
conclusions. The solicitors said the university had offered Mrs F extensions of time to 
accommodate her needs and so had likely discharged its obligations towards her, so it would 
be difficult to establish a breach of contract. The solicitors considered the matter was 
essentially a dispute with her supervisor and this does not form the basis of an enforceable 
breach of contract. The solicitors also advised that there were alternative routes Mrs F could 
take to get redress from the university.  The solicitors set out relatively detailed reasoning for 
their conclusions and I do not agree that they have failed to provide a proper legal opinion.I appreciate that Mrs F doesnt agree with the legal assessment carried out on her claim, but 
her own views on this matter cannot reasonably outweigh the assessment of qualified legal 
professionals such as solicitors. 
Given this, I am not persuaded it is unreasonable for RSA to rely on the panel solicitors 
advice and refuse to fund the legal case.  RSA offered £50 compensation for not telling     
Mrs F it had asked the panel solicitors to review the matter. I think this is reasonable and do 
not think it needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman