DRN-3846835
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the premium Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited 
charged her when renewing two pet insurance policies. Shes also unhappy about the level 
of service received. 
Reference to Red Sands include their agents. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here. In my 
decision Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Mrs W held two lifetime pet insurance policies with Red Sands. Policy one started in 2015 
and policy two in 2016. Staff discount was applied to both policies until Mrs W changed jobs 
in 2021. She says she was shocked by the premium increases during the 2022 renewal. So, 
she complained to Red Sands and says they handled things poorly, failed to provide correct 
information, and didnt address matters adequately. 
Red Sands say the policy terms state premiums might increase each year and Mrs W was 
made aware of this. They say the price for both policies was correct, policy two had a far 
greater number of claims against it than policy one, and they treated Mrs W fairly. They say 
they provided Mrs W with correct information and offered to discount both policies as a 
gesture of goodwill. Mrs W remained unhappy and approached our Service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Red Sands made 
clear premium increases could be significant and there was no limit to what could be 
charged for the policies. He thought the premium increase on policy two in 2022 was 
significant and would have shocked Mrs W. So, he recommended they pay her £200 in 
recognition of this. Red Sands didnt agree and asked for a decision. Mrs W said the 
compensation amount was far too low given the way things were handled. So, the case was 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says Red Sands may change the premium at renewal due to a pets age, claim, 
and medical history, amongst other things. It doesnt set out the potential for premium 
increases to be significant, the long-term costs associated with these types of policies, or 
that no limit applied to how much could be charged. I think this information is important to a 
policyholder when considering whether a policy is suitable. And even though a price 
increase wouldnt necessarily come as a surprise to a policyholder based on the policy 
wording, a significant increase in premiums at renewal would likely come as a shock. 
As such, I think the failing here was Red Sands not making clear to Mrs W the potential for 
premiums to significantly increase, amongst the other possibilities that could impact the 
policy Ive mentioned above. So, Ive gone on to consider the impact of their failing on Mrs W 
in respect of policy one and two. 
Policy one 
Red Sands say staff discount was applied in 2015 and removed in 2021 when Mrs W 
changed jobs. This impacted the price as the cost of the policy went up in 2021. It then 
increased further in 2022 by approximately £60. All things considered  Im not persuaded 
the 2022 price increase on policy one impacted Mrs W. She ought reasonably to have been 
aware the premiums might change, and I dont think the increase was so significant it would 
have caused her a level of shock. So, I dont think Red Sands failing impacted Mrs W in 
respect of policy one. 
Policy two 
Similar to policy one, the premium increased in 2021 when the 50% staff discount was said 
to have been removed. The claims history on this policy Ive seen shows a far greater 
number of claims were settled against it in comparison to policy one  which impacted the 
price of it, amongst other factors. It then increased further by approximately £200 during the 
2022 renewal window. 
Although its reasonable to say Mrs W ought reasonably to have been aware the premium 
could change given the claims history and the fact the policy terms say this, I think a further 
rise of £200 would have come as a shock to her. I think the 2022 renewal increase was a 
significant one, and the extent of that increase would have caused her a level of shock  as 
she pointed out to Red Sands when she complained about it. 
As such, whilst the policy says premiums can change, it doesnt say increases could be 
significant or theres no limit to what Red Sands could charge. I think this is an important 
factor for a policyholder to consider when choosing whether a policy is suitable. So, I also 
think some compensation is due here for the impact the significant premium change in 2022 
had on Mrs W for policy two. 
Summary 
Mrs W says Red Sands handled things poorly when she complained, failed to address her 
concerns adequately, and failed to provide her with correct information. Our investigator 
requested Red Sands re-reviewed the information provided to Mrs W given her concerns 
which I think is a reasonable suggestion to help alleviate those concerns. 
I agree things could have been handled better overall here  things didnt go as smoothly as 
Mrs W would have liked them to. I note, however, Red Sands offered to apply a 10% 
discount to both policies as a gesture of goodwill. So, even though things could have been 
handled better here, I think Red Sands have already done enough to put matters right fairly 
by applying this discount. 
I think the 2022 premium change on policy two was a significant one and the extent of this 
would have caused Mrs W some shock. Im not concluding here the price was wrong as its 
not for us to determine the price an insurer charges for a policy  and Ive not been 
persuaded Mrs W was treated unfairly or differently to other customers in the same position 
as her. So, whilst the policy does say premiums can change, it doesnt say premiums could 
change significantly  as I think they did here  or theres no limit to how much Red Sands 
could charge. 
Our investigator recommended Red Sands should pay Mrs W £200 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. Im satisfied thats a fair, reasonable, and proportionate 
outcome to this complaint  in addition to the 10% discount applied by Red Sands to both 
policies. So, Ill be directing Red Sands to pay Mrs W £200 to resolve matters. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs W. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve her dispute with Red Sands  can do for her. 
Putting things right
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited must now pay Mrs W £200 compensation 
for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman