DRN-3037461
The complaint
 Mr T complains that a refund he was expecting hadnt been credited to his account with 
HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
 Mr T was expecting a refund of £260  this was returned by the merchant on 
6 November 2020 and received by HSBC on 11 November 2020. Unfortunately, Mr Ts debit 
card had expired and so the funds needed to be credited manually to reach Mr Ts account, 
which wasnt done at the time.
Mr T contacted HSBC to locate his funds and on 18 December 2020 completed an online 
form. He also provided the ARN number from the merchant to help it track the payment. At 
this point Mr T was told it could take 90-120 days for his claim to be looked at due to HSBC 
receiving high volumes.
Mr T brought his complaint to our service in April 2021. When HSBC investigated the matter, 
it credited Mr Ts account on 12 May 2021. It also offered Mr T £50 compensation to 
recognise the time this had taken to sort out with Mr T being without his funds. This offer was 
later increased to £110 which took into account that an interest award on his funds would 
have amounted to around £10.
Mr T thought £5000 was a more appropriate amount for HSBC to pay. He said there were 
systematic issues at HSBC, hed spent hours on the phone and was told the wrong 
information multiple times. Mr T also said he was led to believe the problem could be at the 
merchants end and that if hed pursued that line of thinking there could have been serious 
consequences. HSBC hasnt been able to provide call recordings or contact notes in relation 
to this.
The investigator thought the offer was fair in the circumstances. As Mr T didnt agree, this 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Where information or evidence is missing, I need to base my decision on the whats been 
provided. Having done so, I agree that the offer to pay Mr T £110 is a fair resolution to this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Our service isnt a regulator and so it isnt our role to fine or punish HSBC for any potential 
systematic issues. Rather Ive considered the mistake that HSBC has made and the impact 
this has had on Mr T.
It isnt in dispute that HSBC ought to have credited Mr Ts account sooner, or that Mr T 
would have saved time, energy and stress if HSBC had done so. Unfortunately, HSBC 
couldnt provide call recordings or contact notes for me to see the detail of the conversations 
Mr T said took place, but I accept its likely he would have been told that the refund being 
processed on an expired card wouldnt prevent him from receiving it. I say this because its 
correct that Mr T could still receive the refund, as he did, but that there was simply a different 
process when this was the case. It seems that the issue stemmed from a delay in HSBCs 
ability to investigate what had happened and manually credit Mr Ts account. 
Taking the above into account, I agree that there has been some stress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr T as a result of HSBCs mistakes. Clearly six months is not a reasonable 
amount of time to wait to receive a credit to Mr Ts account. But I think £110 is within the 
range of what would be fair compensation in the circumstances here.
Putting things right
 HSBCs offer of £110 compensation is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr T 
£110 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman