DRN-2730419
The complaint
Mr G complains that Soteria Insurance Limited have refused to deal with his buildings 
insurance claim.
All references to Soteria also include their agents.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. The following is a summary of the events that led to this complaint. 
Mr G made a claim due cracks inside his home in 2006. Soteria investigated and concluded 
it was differential movement and completed repairs.
In 2010 Mr G reported further cracking in a similar area to the issue reported in 2006. But 
upon investigation, a specialist from Soteria concluded the issues were due to thermal 
movement, and not subsidence
In 2018, Mr G discovered new cracks in his home, in the vicinity of the previous cracks
As they were in the same location as the cracks that had appeared in 2006, Mr G contacted 
Soteria, as he believed they may be responsible for the damage. Soteria didnt agree they 
were responsible and said Mr G should raise a claim with his new insurer.
This issue was looked at by our service previously under a different reference. Our 
investigator said a recent assessment of the damage hadnt been undertaken  so its cause 
was uncertain. He recommended Mr G approach his existing insurer in the first instance to 
assess the damage.
This complaint relates to issues that took place following this, which Ive summarised below.
Mr G initiated a claim with his new insurer
The new insurer sent an expert to inspect the damage, they said the issues reported 
were a result of subsidence at the property and likely related to issues reported in 
2006
As a result, Mr Gs new insurer declined his claim and later voided his policy
The new insurer has confirmed they have a report from their expert but they have 
refused to provide this to Mr G, or our service
However they have provided their experts comments and information from it  which 
says the problems are clearly subsidence related and the issues reported are a 
continuation of the same problem
Mr G went back to Soteria. They said Mr G would need to refer back to his new 
insurer, but they would be happy to review the issues further with an expert report
Mr G was unhappy with Soterias response, so he came to our service
Our investigator recommended Soteria instruct experts to assess the damage and provide 
an opinion on whether the reported damage is a result of poor workmanship and a 
continuation of the damage caused from 2006  or a something else
Soteria didnt agree with our investigator, they said they had provided a report in 2010 which 
confirmed there was no subsidence and they didnt think it was reasonable to complete the 
same investigation again several years later
Further developments
I wrote to Soteria on 6 May 2021 letting them know my initial thoughts. I said the cracks 
identified in 2018 were different to those raised in 2010, so were a new issue. I said while I 
appreciated a full report hadnt been provided, Mr Gs new insurer did provide detail 
presented by their expert. 
From the information available I was satisfied enough information has been presented to 
suggest there is a possibility the cracks could relate to the 2006 issue dealt with by Soteria.
So because of this I said It would be fair and reasonable Soteria investigate and provide 
anassessment of the damage - and comment on whether or not they believe it to be related 
to the issues from 2006, providing their reasons why.
Soteria didnt agree and reiterated their points. They said the investigation by Mr Gs new 
insurer was inadequate. Soteria said they had provided a full engineers report in 2010 which 
confirmed there was no active subsidence at the property. Soteria said as Mr G didnt have 
problems for over ten years, they believed a lasting repair had been completed and it was 
unreasonable for them to be expected to complete additional investigations.
I will consider everything in a final decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision is unchanged from the initial thoughts I provided to Soteria.
Soteria say the investigation carried out by Mr Gs new insurer is inadequate. But the new 
insurer has confirmed their expert attended Mr Gs home and provided an opinion. Although 
they have acknowledged information provided by Mr G in their comments, they have also 
provided comment on what they could see and that they believe the issues are subsidence 
related and continuation of the same problem.
Although I appreciate Soterias concern of not being provided a detailed report, in the 
absence of any other information, Im not persuaded the investigation is inadequate at this 
stage. So I still remain of the opinion its fair and reasonable that Soteria should investigate 
and provide an assessment of the damage.
Putting things right
Soteria should investigate and provide an assessment of the damage - and comment on 
whether they believe it to be related to the issues from 2006, providing their reasons why. If they find this is related, they should arrange for the claim to move forward.
 
My final decision
My final decision Is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Soteria Insurance Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman