DRN-2920452
The complaint
A, a limited company complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt do enough when 
they were victims of an online investment scam. Mr S, a director, brings the complaint on As 
behalf.
For ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to Mr S himself, where I mean his company, A. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2018 Mr S made a series of debit card 
payments towards what he believed to be a genuine investment opportunity with a firm Ill 
refer to as T. These totalled over £60,000. I understand this money was lost and Mr S 
complained to Natwest that theyd failed to do enough to protect him from financial harm 
through fraud. 
Natwest didnt accept that theyd done anything wrong and the matter was referred to our 
service. One of our investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr S disagreed and the complaint was passed to me to decide. I sent Mr S an email 
explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. Part of my email said:
At the time relevant to the payments (and currently) [T] were regulated by Cyprus Securities 
and Exchange Commission (CySec). They also were able to passport into the UK and offer 
their services here which is recorded on the Financial Conduct Authoritys financial services 
register.
It would be unusual for a scam firm to comply with the various requirements associated with 
being regulated. Further to this Ive seen evidence that [T] offered you around $11,000 
compensation in response to your complaint to them. There is also evidence to support that 
you were entitled to refer your complaint to the Cyprus Financial Ombudsman (although I 
note it was referred too late for them to consider it). 
Taking all the evidence into consideration, Ive not seen anything that meets the high legal 
threshold and burden of proof required for fraud. Rather, this appears to be a case of a bad 
investment and questionable sales methods/trading practices.
Having concluded that this was likely a case of a bad investment rather than a scam, there is 
nothing further for me to consider, as a bank has no obligation to protect its customers from 
bad bargains or give them investment advice. There are occasions when we do think banks 
should query payments because of suspicious activity that appears unusual or 
uncharacteristic for the account or customer. 
Youve highlighted industry guidance such as the British Standard Institute (BSI) PAS 17271 
(2017)  Protecting Customers from Financial Harm from Fraud Code. I agree NatWest has 
obligations to be alert to fraud and to act in its customers best interests. 
But these considerations, which we have previously set out in our published decisions are 
predicated on there being evidence of a fraud or scam, which is not the case here. A bank 
does not have to intervene with authorised payments, and cannot be held liable for alleged 
losses, when there is in fact no fraud or scam, or if the payer has regrets or second thoughts 
after the event.
For completeness I dont think NatWest have failed where a chargeback is concerned. There 
are limited avenues for a successful chargeback for a payment of this type through the Visa 
chargeback scheme. The funds were credited to your trading account upon payment and I 
dont think there was a realistic prospect of a successful chargeback which NatWest 
unreasonably declined to take forward on your behalf. 
Mr S didnt agree and responded with some further comments which Ill address below. He 
asked that I make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my email, Mr S says he accepts that T were regulated but says that there was 
misbehaviour and breaches by them. He also says that they wouldnt have offered him 
compensation if they werent guilty. And that they hassled him and contacted him to help him 
make his money back. 
Ive considered this, but I can only comment on the actions of Natwest who are the 
respondent to this complaint. In general terms the offer of compensation by a regulated firm 
doesnt mean that there has been fraud or that they are operating a scam. There are a 
variety of possible reasons for offering compensation that are well short of a finding of fraud. 
And I included above that its entirely possible there were questionable trading practices 
involved, but again this doesnt mean that T were operating a scam.
Im sorry that A lost this money, but I dont think Natwest ought to have intervened in the 
payments when they were being made, and I dont think they could have done more to try to 
recover them through the chargeback scheme. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman