DRN-2562621
The complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance (Santander). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Santander, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Santander, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr H. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Santander were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Mr H took his car back to the dealership in late September 2019, less than three months 
after it was supplied to him. So, the onus is on Santander to demonstrate the faults were not 
present when the car was supplied.
Im not persuaded that Santander have supplied enough evidence to demonstrate that. 
Santander commissioned an independent inspection to advise them whether it was likely the 
faults were present when the car was supplied. The inspector couldnt start the car and said:
The vehicle will need to be running to obtain live data to confirm whether the DPF (Diesel 
Particulate Filter) regeneration has been successfully carried out.
That further investigation hasnt been carried out, so I dont think there is independent 
evidence that the cause of the fault was a failed regeneration. Theres simply a suggestion 
from the inspector that he thinks its likely based on his experience. 
So, I dont think Santander have provided enough evidence to suggest there wasnt a fault 
with this car at the point of supply.
And even if Im wrong about that issue. The inspector noted that when he managed to get 
the dashboard to illuminate there was a warning message saying, check ignition and 
start/stop. He went on to say further investigation and full diagnostics is required under 
workshop conditions on the injection system and the start/stop system. No further 
investigation and diagnostics have been completed and I therefore dont think Santander 
have been able to provide sufficient evidence the fault with the ignition and start/stop was 
not present when the car was supplied or that it is related to DPF regeneration. Thats 
another reason why I believe this car has not been of satisfactory quality.
I can see that Santander have explained that the need for longer regeneration runs is a 
reason why makers often go as far as recommending city-based short hop drivers choose 
a petrol car and its why diesels are something of a rarity. Mr H sourced his car through a 
dealership whose name suggests they specialise in taxis. That may therefore suggest there 
was a misrepresentation as it was clear what purpose the vehicle was being supplied for 
and, if the vehicle wasnt suitable for that purpose, it could be considered to have been mis-
sold. 
I dont think its necessary to consider any misrepresentation in this case as Im persuaded 
the redress would be similar. But I am persuaded this car was of unsatisfactory quality and 
that Santander need to take some further action.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair a fault that was present 
at the point of supply. But here I dont think it would be fair for the business to repair the car. 
I say that because the car has been with the dealership since 28 September 2019 and Mr H 
has arranged alternative transport as hes been waiting so long for a resolution to his 
complaint that I think could have been provided much earlier. I think the time taken to affect 
a repair has therefore been excessive and in those circumstances I think the business 
should now allow him to reject the car.
They should end Mr Hs finance agreement and if there are any costs collecting the car they 
should be at Santanders expense.
Santander should refund Mr Hs deposit and they should add 8% simple interest to that 
refund as Mr H has been deprived of that money.
The business should refund all the finance instalments Mr H has paid and waive any that 
were due, by the time they settle this complaint, and havent been paid. But legislation allows 
them to retain a portion of those payments in respect of the use the consumer has had from 
the goods. Here the mileage Mr H completed at the point the car failed suggests he had 
reasonable use of the car up to the end of September 2019. So, Santander can retain any finance instalments hed paid up to that point and if any werent paid they can claim them. 
But they should refund, or waive, any finance instalments due after September 2019. If that 
results in a refund Santander should add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
Mr H has been inconvenienced by these matters. Hes had to wait for a resolution to his 
complaint and hes had to take his car for repairs and be recovered when things went wrong 
with the car. In those circumstances, I think Santander should pay him £200 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr H has asked that Santander refund the costs hes incurred to hire a car in the interim. As 
Im asking Santander to reimburse or waive the finance instalments when Mr H didnt have 
the car he was financing; it would not be fair for me to ask them to refund the cost of 
alternative transport. That was something Mr H would always have been responsible for. 
Im also asking Santander to remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Hs 
credit file in relation to these issues as Im persuaded they wouldnt have happened had the 
car been of satisfactory quality.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
end the finance agreement and allow Mr H to reject the car;
pay any collection costs if any are necessary;
refund Mr Hs deposit and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund all finance instalments paid or due from the date agreement started to the date 
of settlement and add 8% simple interest per year to any refund from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. Santander may retain finance instalments paid up 
to the end of September 2019.
pay Mr H £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to these 
issues.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman