DRN-3409393
Complaint
Mr A has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Avant Credit provided Mr A with a loan for £1,000.00 in August 2015. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just over £57. One of our adjudicators reviewed        
Mr As complaint and he thought Avant Credit shouldnt have provided Mr A with his loan. 
Avant Credit disagreed, so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr As complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr A could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Avant Credit may argue that the relatively low monthly payments meant that a light touch 
assessment would have been proportionate here. But Im mindful that any credit check 
carried out is likely to have shown Avant Credit that Mr A was already significantly indebted. 
So I think that Avant Credit ought to have found out more about Mr As actual commitments 
rather than simply assumed that he was only paying half of his household expenditure. 
I think further checks would more likely than not have extended into finding out more about 
Mr As expenditure. And if Avant Credit had done this here, Im persuaded that it would have 
seen that Mr A was already in a difficult financial position at the time and also found out why 
this was the case. Im also satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have shown Avant Credit that Mr As existing precarious financial position was 
because he was struggling. 
So Im persuaded by what Mr A has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And as reasonable and proportionate checks should have extended into finding 
out about Mr As income and expenditure, Im satisfied that they would more like than not 
have shown Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr A. As Avant Credit 
provided Mr A with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. 
Mr A ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with in the first place. So Im satisfied that Mr A lost out because of what Avant Credit did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mr A
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mr A by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr A paid on his loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement
removing all adverse information it recorded about this loan on Mr As credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr As complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman