DRN-3550934
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain about the settlement Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited offered 
for the loss of their car following a claim made on their motor insurance policy. Mr C is a 
named driver on Mrs Cs policy.
 
What happened
Mrs C and Mr Cs car was involved in a collision and declared a total loss by Admiral. It 
initially offered Mrs C £4,226, less the policy excess, in settlement of her claim. Following 
our involvement, Admiral offered to increase its offer to £4,822.50, with interest, and agreed 
to pay Mrs C £50 compensation. But Mrs C said she couldnt replace her car for this amount. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral had 
made deductions from the settlement offer for previously failed MOTs and because the car 
wasnt bought from an approved dealer. But he thought the deductions for the failed MOTs 
was unfair as these had been rectified by repairs. He thought Admiral should pay Mrs C the 
highest valuation provided by the trade guides we use, £5,170, with interest, and to increase 
its offer of compensation to £100. 
Admiral replied that £4,822.50 was the average of the two valuations it had found and was 
made in keeping with our approach. It said it hadnt made any deductions for MOT failures. It 
agreed to increase the compensation to £100 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our Investigator agreed that this was fair and reasonable. But Mrs C replied that she couldnt 
find a replacement car for this amount and wanted a further increase in the settlement offer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs C and Mr C want a fair settlement for the loss of their car. Mr C 
said they couldnt find a replacement car for Admirals offer. But I can see that Mrs Cs policy 
provides for the cars market value at the date of its loss in the case of total loss, not a like 
for like replacement. 
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. In assessing whether 
a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-trade guides. These are 
used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be particularly persuasive, 
largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. 
The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take all other available 
evidence into account, for example, engineers reports. 
Mr C said they had seen similar cars advertised for higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
Mr C was concerned that the guides wouldnt take into account the current market for 
second-hand cars. But I can assure him that the guides are updated to reflect the likely sales 
figures at the dates of loss. 
Our Investigator thought Admirals final offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how 
he came to this conclusion. I can see that he checked the motor trade guides we use for 
cars of the same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mrs Cs car at the date of its 
loss. He found three valuations ranging between £4,350 and £5,170. 
Our approach where there is an even spread of valuations is to look for the average of 
these. This was less than Admirals final offer. No deductions were made for the previous 
MOT failures. So I cant say that Admirals offer was unfair or unreasonable. And I dont 
require it to increase this. Mrs C has been without her money for some time, so I think 
Admiral should reasonably add interest to this settlement. 
Admiral agreed to offer Mrs C £100 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. I think Mrs C 
was put to some trouble to get a fair offer for her car. And I think Admiral shouldnt have tried 
to make a deduction for the rectified MOT failures. So I think £100 compensation for Mrs Cs 
trouble and upset is fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance. 
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do the following, as its already agreed to 
do:
1. Pay Mrs C £4,822.50 in settlement of her claim, adding interest to this amount at the rate 
of 8% simple from 13 December 2021 to the date of settlement. 
2. Pay Mrs C £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling 
of her claim. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral to take off tax from this interest. Admiral must 
give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its already 
agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman