DRN-3629552
The complaint
Miss W complains that Nationwide Building Society allowed someone to fraudulently remove 
money from her account.
What happened
In 2012 Miss W met a man, Mr C, who said he could help her manager her finances. Over 
the following years Miss W and Mr C started to form a relationship and became close. Mr C 
continued to help Miss W manage her accounts and in 2017 he was granted power of 
attorney over her finances. Since then, a number of payments have been made between 
Miss Ws Nationwide account and accounts in Mr Cs name.
Miss W started to become suspicious of their relationship when Mr C wouldnt move in with 
her or give her back more responsibility over her finances. And when she checked her 
account statements she saw a number of payments she didnt know had been made. So in 
October 2020 she contacted Nationwide and told it she thought Mr C was stealing from her. 
Nationwide then placed a block on her account so that Mr C couldnt make any make any 
more payments. Miss W ultimately had the power of attorney revoked and complained to 
Nationwide that it had allowed Mr C to remove money from her account, hadnt carried out 
checks on Mr C when the power of attorney was registered and hadnt sent her statements 
for her account.
Nationwide investigated but said Mr C was authorised to make transactions on her account, 
so it had acted correctly in allowing him to do so. It also said it wasnt required to carry out 
checks on attorneys when they are registered, and had been sending her statements to 
Mr C. Miss W wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so referred her complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the case. They said there wasnt enough evidence to say 
Mr C had used Miss Ws money for his own benefit, so they couldnt ask Nationwide to 
refund any of the payments Mr C made. They also said Nationwide wasnt required to carry 
out any checks into Mr C before registering the power of attorney, so they didnt think 
Nationwide had done anything wrong. Miss W disagreed with our investigator, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the power of attorney document Nationwide was shown, appointing Mr C 
as Miss Ws attorney. And this appears to have been filled in correctly with Miss Ws details, 
signed by her and a solicitor, and validated by the Office of the Public Guardian. So I think it 
was reasonable for Nationwide to register the power of attorney on Miss Ws account in 
accordance with that document, and then to follow the instructions Mr C gave on her account 
on that basis.
Due to the circumstances surrounding this case, its very difficult to now know for certain 
whether Mr C was stealing from Miss W, or using the money in her account for his own 
benefit rather than hers. Nationwide has said no funds were ever removed by Mr C from her 
savings account, and the statements Ive seen for her current account show a significant 
number of payments into the account from Mr C  which I wouldnt expect from someone 
intending to steal from her. And unfortunately Mr C has died since the power of attorney was 
revoked, so its not possible to get an explanation from him or statements for his accounts to 
see whether money was used for Miss Ws benefit or not.
In any event, I havent seen anything about the activity of Miss Ws accounts, or the 
instructions Mr C gave, which I think ought to have alerted Nationwide that Mr C may be 
abusing his position as her attorney. I think its reasonable that Nationwide didnt identify any 
possible concerns before Miss W said she thought Mr C was stealing from her, and so I 
dont think it would be fair to say it acted incorrectly by allowing Mr C to make transactions 
on her account.
I also think Nationwide did what wed expect when Miss W first told it she thought Mr C was 
stealing from her. Nationwides records show Miss W first raised her concerns in October 
2020, and that a fraud case was raised and a block was placed on her account at the time 
so that no further withdrawals could be made from the account. This block allowed Miss W to 
look into the issue further, and speak with the Office of the Public Guardian to get the power 
of attorney revoked, without worrying that any more of her money could be taken out of the 
account in the meantime. And as this is all the action we could reasonably expect 
Nationwide to take, I think it acted reasonably when Miss W told it of her concerns.
Miss W also complained that Nationwide didnt carry out criminal history checks on Mr C 
before registering the power of attorney on her accounts, and that she didnt receive 
statements for her accounts while he was registered as the attorney. But banks arent 
required to carry out these kinds of checks on attorneys in these situations. So I dont think it 
would be fair to say Nationwide acted incorrectly by not carrying out further checks. And 
Nationwide sent statements for her accounts to Mr C while he was registered as her 
attorney, which I think is reasonable.
I appreciate that this matter has been going on for a significant period of time and has 
caused Miss W a considerable amount of distress. But I can only look at the actions of 
Nationwide in this complaint and, based on the evidence I have, I dont think Nationwide has 
acted incorrectly or unreasonably. So I dont think it would be fair to require it to refund any 
payments made out of her account or to pay her any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman