DRN-3195038
The complaint
Mrs J (through a representative) has complained that S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at 
Home (LAH) didnt carry out proper affordability checks before it provided her with lending. 
What happened
Mrs J took 10 home collected loans from LAH between July 2007 and June 2010. A 
summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from LAH can be found 
below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £750.00 25/07/2007 02/04/2008 50 £25.00
2 £1,000.00 05/09/2007 23/07/2008 70 £25.00
3 £750.00 14/11/2007 11/06/2008 50 £25.00
4 £750.00 02/04/2008 18/03/2009 50 £25.00
5 £750.00 11/06/2008 01/09/2010 50 £25.00
6 £1,000.00 23/07/2008 06/01/2021 70 £25.00
7 £750.00 18/03/2009 09/12/2009 52 £25.00
8 £750.00 09/12/2009 06/10/2010 52 £25.00
9 £500.00 01/09/2010 26/10/2016 41 £20.00
10 £750.00 06/10/2010 22/07/2020 52 £25.00
The cost per week column is the individual cost per loan per week. When loans overlapped 
the cost per week will be greater. 
LAH has told us that Mrs J had some problems repaying some of her loans although they 
have now all been repaid.
Following Mrs Js complaint, LAH issued its final response letter on 23 February 2021. The 
FRL explained Mrs J had made her complaint too late about all her loans  so they were 
time barred. As a result, LAH didnt investigate whether an error had been made when it 
advanced these loans.  
 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Js complaint. The assessment was split into two 
parts. 
In the first part, the adjudicator concluded that this Service could investigate all of Mrs Js 
loans. This is because while the loans had been complained about more than six years after 
the event. The adjudicator hadnt seen anything to make him think Mrs J had complaint more 
than three years since she was or ought to have been aware, she could complain. 
In the second part, the adjudicator considered whether LAH had done anything wrong when 
it provided these loans. He hadnt seen enough to say LAH had made an error when loans 
1-5 were advanced.
But the adjudicator did uphold the complaint about loans 6  10 because in his view, the 
pattern of lending was harmful for Mrs J. 
Mrs Js representative acknowledged the adjudicators findings. 
LAH didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In its response to the adjudicator LAH 
didnt focus on whether it was wrong to have provided some of the loans, instead it focused 
on whether this Service had the jurisdiction to consider the loans. In summary it said:
It disagreed with the approach this Service had taken with this case.
The approach is at odds with other, more recent complaints received by LAHs parent 
company and an example of one of these recent cases was provided. 
In this case, LAH told this Service Mrs J sought debt advice from an independent 
body in 2011. This independent body helped Mrs J set up a repayment plan for £1 
per month. LAH says as part of this advice, Mrs J was told she could raise a 
complaint. 
The adjudicator has disregarded LAHs points about jurisdiction and the regulations 
this Service must follow. 
No evidence has been provided as to why this case is in this Services jurisdiction 
and as such, LAH hasnt given this Service approval to consider these loans.  
The adjudicator went back to LAH and explained why its comments didnt change his mind. 
He said, that why while Mrs J may have sought debt advice, that of its own isnt enough to 
say the case was outside of this Services jurisdiction.  
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Why I can look into this complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Mrs J and LAH to 
decide whether we are able to look at all of her loans. Having done so, I have reached the 
same conclusion as the adjudicator  that I have the power to consider all of Mrs Js loans. 
Ill explain why. 
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint 
made more than six years after whats been complained about. Or if later, more than three 
years after the complaint in this case, Mrs J knew, or ought to really have known they had 
reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can be found online 
in the FCAs Handbook. 
Its clear all of Mrs Js loans were complained about more than six years after they were 
taken. However, Ive not seen anything to persuade me Mrs J was aware or ought to have 
been reasonably aware more than three years before she raised this complaint, that she had 
reason to complain. 
LAH has said that when Mrs J experienced repayment problems she received third party 
independent debt advice in 2011 which resulted in a plan for her to repay her balance by £1 
per month. LAH also says at this time, she was told about making a complaint. 
However, Ive seen no evidence to suggest that Mrs J received such advice or guidance 
about making a complaint and either has LAH provided anything to show that this advice or 
guidance was given. So, I dont think this is enough in this particular case to demonstrate 
that.
I say this because whilst experiencing repayment problems and therefore struggling to repay the lending would no doubt have led Mrs J to realise there was a problem (in terms of her 
financial difficulty), Im not persuaded this would have (or ought to have), in itself, made her  
aware that these problems were caused by LAH doing something wrong when it agreed the 
loans. And as Ive said above, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mrs J was told she 
could complaint in 2011 when she approached the third-party debt advice body for support. 
And I havent seen anything else to persuade me that Mrs J was or ought to have become 
aware earlier of cause to complain more than three years before they complained. 
So, like our adjudicator, I think all of Mrs Js loans were raised within the time limits I need to 
apply and that I do have the power to consider these loans Mrs J was given. Ill now go on 
and consider whether or not I think all the loans complained about were lent responsibly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs J could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs J. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to say that LAH was required to establish whether Mrs J 
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all mean for Mrs Js complaint.
Loans 1 - 5The adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint about these loans. Neither Mrs J (nor her 
representatives) disagreed with the adjudicators findings, so I no longer think these loans 
are in dispute. But I have kept in mind these loans when thinking about Mrs Js overall 
lending relationship with LAH.  
Loans 6 - 10
I havent looked in any detail about whether the checks for loans 6 - 10 were proportionate 
and Ill explain why below. 
In addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan provided to 
Mrs J, LAH also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what unfolded during 
the course of its lending relationship with Mrs J.
Having looked at the overall pattern of LAHs lending history with Mrs J, LAH should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, at the 
time it provided loan 6. I say this because:
By loan 6 it was a year into the lending relationship and Mrs J had been indebted to 
LAH for whole time. In my view, Mrs Js loan history up until this point was a clear 
indication that her underlying financial situation didnt seem to be improving. 
Mrs Js first loan was for £750 with loan 6 being for £1,000. So, there were no signs 
that her indebtedness was decreasing at this point. 
Mrs J returned for loan 6, on the same day loan 2 was repaid. It was for the same 
sum of money to be repaid over the same term  70 weeks. In my view, this a large 
loan to be repaid over a significant period of time. Given, it was the second time 
shed returned for the same amount, I think this may have indicated that she was 
having underlying financial difficulties. 
From loan 6 onwards Mrs Js pattern of taking new loans shortly after a previous loan 
had been repaid continued and at times she had more than one loan running at the 
same time.   
By the point of loan 10, Mrs J was making a commitment to make repayments to LAH 
for another year, after already being indebted for the last three years. Loan 10 was 
also for the same value as loan 1 so the amount of time that Mrs J spent indebted to 
LAH meant that she was in effect servicing a debt to LAH over an extended period of 
time.
Mrs J went on to have significant repayment problems. And this reinforces my view these 
loans were unsustainable. It took Mrs K over 12 years to repay her sixth loan when the loan 
was only due to run for around 15 months. 
I think that Mrs J lost out when LAH provided loans 6 - 10 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Js indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period and;
the number of loans and time in debt was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mrs Js ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 6  10 Ive set out below what LAH 
should do to put things right.Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided lending from loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to
have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs J may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mrs J in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mrs J would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what Im
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
LAH shouldnt have given Mrs J loans 6 - 10.
A. LAH should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs J towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything LAH has already refunded.
B. LAH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs J 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs J originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. LAH should pay Mrs J the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Mrs Js borrowing for loans 6  10 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so LAH should remove these loans entirely from 
Mrs Js credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH must give 
Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Js complaint in part.
 
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right for Mrs J as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman