DRN-1864847
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A (Mapfre) has unfairly declined his claim.
What happened
Mr S had an annual backpacker travel insurance policy, underwritten by Mapfre. He was in 
Venezuela when he needed to attend hospital for treatment. The hospital wouldnt accept 
payment from Mapfre and so Mr S had to pay for the treatment costs himself. Mapfre agreed 
that it would reimburse Mr S if he paid for the treatment. Mr S borrowed money from family 
and friends and made payment. 
At the time, due to the political situation in Venezuela, UK bank cards werent being 
accepted and cash couldnt be withdrawn. The currency was also transitioning from VEF, 
which was the official currency before the 21 August 2018, to VES, which was the official 
currency after the 21 August 2018.
Mr S submitted a claim to Mapfre to reclaim the costs paid but Mapfre has declined the claim 
on the basis that Mr S hasnt suffered a loss as he hadnt paid for the treatment. It says Mr S 
needs to provide evidence that he has re-paid his family and friends to ascertain his true 
loss. Unhappy with this, Mr S referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator found 
that Mapfre hadnt acted reasonably as it had unfairly declined the claim.
Mapfre rejected the investigators opinion on the basis that she hadnt fully considered the 
two main issues being the exchange rate and the customer not having suffered a loss. 
Mapfre said it hasnt received evidence that the money paid by family members to settle the 
bill has been paid back by Mr S. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mr S complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say an insurer must handle claims promptly and 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy says:
If the insured is admitted to hospital abroad, the hospital or attending qualified 
medical practitioner will be contacted and payment of their fees up to the policy limit 
will be guaranteed so that the insured does not have to make the payment from their 
own funds. 
In this case, due to circumstances beyond the control of both Mapfre and Mr S, the hospital 
would only accept money from Mr S and not from Mapfre. And so Mr S arranged to pay for 
the treatment by borrowing money from friends and family. Mr S then submitted a claim to 
Mapfre for costs paid so that he could re-pay his friends and family.
But Mapfre raised a number of issues and concerns throughout the handling of the claim 
which delayed matters.
Mapfre questioned whether Mr S was a permanent resident in the UK. After some 
correspondence back and forth, it accepted that Mr S met the residency 
requirements. 
It then investigated whether Mr S trip started and ended in the UK and initially said 
Mr S didnt intend to end his trip in the UK. Mr S instructed a solicitor to assist him 
and following further correspondence back and forth, Mapfre agreed that Mr S did 
start and end his trip in the UK.
Mapfre agreed to pay the claim but asked Mr S for further evidence. It said it wanted 
evidence that Mr S had paid his relatives back as that was his true loss. But Mr S 
said he didnt have the funds to re-pay until Mapfre reimbursed him. It also raised 
concerns about the situation with the currency in Venezuela and suggested that due 
to the volatile currency at the time Mr S paid the hospital, he could potentially gain 
from this due to the exchange rates.
I think its important to highlight that Mr S suffered from an unexpected medical emergency 
which required treatment in Venezuela. It wasnt something he planned, and he couldnt 
have foreseen that the hospital wouldnt accept payment from Mapfre and would insist on 
payment from Mr S. Regardless of the political situation or the volatile currency. Mr S had no 
control over the actions of the hospital and was reasonably entitled to rely on his insurer to 
reimburse the costs he was forced to pay. 
Mapfre asked Mr S to provide evidence of his loss. Mr S has provided Mapfre with an email 
from his relatives confirming the amounts paid and that this money is due to be paid back 
once Mr S receives reimbursement from his insurer. He has also provided a hospital invoice 
confirming the date and amount paid. 
Mapfre has said it wont change its position until Mr S can evidence that he has re-paid the 
money lent to him. I dont think this is a reasonable position to take. Mapfre has relied on the 
following term in the policy which says they will pay or reimburse Mr S:
for medical expenseshe or she incurs
Mapfre say Mr S hasnt incurred a loss as the bill was settled by family members  and the 
policy provides for an insured who has suffered a loss.
Ive considered the policy terms and I dont think this is the intention behind these terms. Mr 
S received an invoice in his name and he discharged that invoice by using money lent to him 
which he needs to pay back. The medical expenses were incurred by Mr S for treatment that 
he had. And so Im satisfied that it was Mr S who incurred those expenses  and not his 
friends and family, as Mapfre seem to be suggesting. Mr S owed the hospital money for 
medical expenses which he paid by borrowing money. He now owes his friends and family 
for the cost of those medical expenses.
Mr S has to show that he incurred medical costs  and Im satisfied he has provided that 
evidence. Mr S discharged the liability to the hospital which Mapfre would have covered. And he did this on the advice of Mapfre. I dont think its fair or reasonable for Mapfre to refuse 
payment of costs in this way, especially considering the circumstances in which Mr S was 
required to pay. 
Mr S has provided an email dated 30 September 2020 from his sister in law which confirms 
that she collected money from her family members, a total of 6,495, 164, 510.20 (VEF) and 
has named six people confirming how much they contributed to Mr S treatment. She has 
confirmed that she agreed Mr S would pay the money back once the insurance company 
paid him. 
I asked our investigator to send this confirmation over to Mapfre and it has responded to say 
the date is important because of the volatile currency. It says the customer says he 
borrowed 6,495, 164, 510.20 (VEF) and says:
That amount was worth £32,299 on 7 August 2018
Two days later it was worth £28,056
Two years later it was worth £0.21
Mapfre say the amount borrowed is in the local currency, not the converted amount as the 
family are using that currency  and not sterling. They say there is no evidence of cash 
withdrawals nor any substantial satisfactory evidence so far, given the currency fluctuations 
at the time and the potential gain that could be made due to this. 
Mr S says the appropriate exchange rate would be the date upon which the invoice was 
paid. That was the date the clinic calculated the amount payable and the date the amount 
was paid. The exchange rate on that day is the true loss and the true reflection of the loss. 
Venezuela was suffering periods of hyper-inflation but any subsequent change in the rate 
isnt relevant to the liability incurred on that day. 
I agree with Mr S. Mr S paid an amount to the hospital on a specific date. That is the date I 
expect it to use. In addition, if Mapfre wants to ask the hospital for further confirmation of the 
amount paid on the date and the currency used, it can do so. 
As Mr S made payment to the hospital on 7 August 2018 and has provided an invoice which 
evidences the amount paid, Im satisfied Mapfre has enough information to calculate the 
costs payable to him, using the exchange rate on the day the amount was paid to the 
hospital.  
I also think Mapfre should compensate Mr S for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
him as a result of the way it dealt with his claim and the delays caused for refusing to pay 
costs which Mapfre said it would pay. I think £350 compensation is appropriate in the 
circumstances for the delay and the way Mapfre handled the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr S complaint and direct Mapfre Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A to:
Reimburse Mr S for the costs he paid to the hospital using the exchange rate 
applicable on the day he paid the hospital, minus any excess payable
Pay 8% simple interest from the date he paid the claim to the date of payment
Pay £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr S
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman