DRN-2225715
The complaint
Mr O complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc wouldnt transfer funds from his current account to 
his prison cash account. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
Mr O contacted Clydesdale on several occasions in 2019 requesting they transfer £150 from 
his current account to his prison cash account. As he didnt receive a response from 
Clydesdale to this request, he complained to them about it. He then contacted our service in 
November 2019 as he still hadnt heard anything from Clydesdale.
Clydesdale explained that, while Mr O remained within his overdraft limit, they couldnt agree 
to the transfer of funds as this wouldve increased his debt at a time when he had no income 
 and so he had no had repayment method available to him at that time. Clydesdale did 
however accept the level of service Mr O received fell short as they didnt keep him informed 
of their decisions in response to his requests. And so, they offered Mr O £150 compensation.
Mr O didnt accept this and said that he wanted a minimum of £500 for the trouble and upset 
this matter had caused him. Our investigator put this to Clydesdale to consider and, while 
they considered £500 to be excessive, they were willing to increase their offer to £250 in the 
hope of coming to an agreement with Mr O.
Our investigator felt this offer was fair in the circumstances. He thought Clydesdale acted 
fairly by not allowing the transfer of funds as, without an income to repay further lending, 
allowing Mr O to increase his debt would be irresponsible lending. And that £250 was a 
reasonable amount to recognise the trouble and upset the lack of contact from Clydesdale 
caused Mr O. So, he didnt think they had to increase this further.
Mr O disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly considered whether Clydesdale acted fairly  and in line with their regularly 
requirements in respect of responsible lending  by not transferring the funds from Mr Os 
bank account to his prison cash account. Having done so, I likewise agree with our 
investigator that it was reasonable in these particular circumstances. I say this because, 
although Mr O was within his overdraft limit at the time, he didnt have a source of income 
and therefore wasnt in a position to be able to repay further borrowing of funds. 
The other issue here, and what also seems to be the main source of dispute, appears to be 
about what level of compensation is fair for the lack of communication Mr O received from 
Clydesdale during this time. Mr O has made it clear that he wants a minimum of £500 
compensation for what happened. Hes explained that he is suffering from financial 
difficulties and this matter has impacted his mental health  as hes suffered from 
depression, anxiety and also a lack of sleep because of it.
Ive taken what Mr O has said in to careful consideration. But, while I dont underestimate the 
difficulty of his current situation, I think Clydesdales offer of £250 compensation is fair in the 
circumstances. This is because, although the level of communication Mr O experienced was 
poor, it didnt change Clydesdales position in respect of not transferring the funds to his 
prison cash account.
I appreciate Mr O says Clydesdale failed to respond to him about this for a long period of 
time. I dont consider this to be in dispute either. But I think £250 is a reasonable amount to 
recognise the impact on Mr O of not being kept informed by Clydesdale about their decision 
to decline further lending (and the transfer of funds). It therefore follows that Im not 
increasing it further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay Mr O, 
if they havent already, £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman