DRN-3097864
The complaint
Mr B complains that Black Horse Limited irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay.
Mr B is represented by a family member but for ease of reference I have referred to Mr B 
throughout this decision. 
What happened
In November 2018, Mr B acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Black Horse. Mr B paid a £770 deposit and was required to make 47 monthly repayments of 
£344 (£360 including insurance), with a final optional payment of £5,864 if he wanted to own 
the car at the end of the agreement. The total repayable under the agreement was £22,806.
Mr B says that Black Horse didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Black Horse didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included affordability checks and a credit check. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Black Horse didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr B didnt agree and said that the agreement was unaffordable. He said his income was 
£925 a month and he had outgoings for fuel, mobile phone, gym membership, insurance 
child maintenance and paid a weekly amount towards living costs. He says the monthly 
repayments of £360 werent affordable.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Black Horse didnt verify Mr Bs income before approving the finance. Given the overall size 
of the borrowing, the monthly repayments compared to Mr Bs declared income, and the 
term of the agreement, I think it would have been proportionate for Black Horse to have done 
so to ensure it was affordable.
Ive seen that Mr B was paid weekly at the time. He has said he was earning around £925 a 
month. His bank statements for September and October 2018 show he earned an average 
of around £1,000. Black Horse had an annual income figure of £14,000 which is in line with 
the additional information provided. I can see the monthly repayments under the agreement 
accounted for a significant portion of Mr Bs income. Therefore, I think it important that Black 
Horse understood his other expenses at the time. 
Mr B declared at the time of the agreement that he had no expenditure. I think it would have 
been reasonable to verify this. He has since explained that he was paying £15 for gym 
membership, around £50 for fuel, £30 board and £200 insurance. He has also said he was 
paying child maintenance, but this was paid by a family member due to him not having 
sufficient funds.
While I note the comments about Mr Bs expenditure, I have to consider what Black Horse 
would have been reasonably aware of had further checks taken place. The car insurance 
would have only been apparent after the agreement was in place and the car provided, this 
information therefore isnt present on Mr Bs bank statements leading up to the agreement. 
Mr B didnt declare his other expenses and having looked through his bank statements, 
these show very limited expenditure, namely his gym membership for £15 and then some 
small payments for food. His bank statements do not show obvious signs of Mr B being in 
financial difficulty. Therefore, considering the information in Mr Bs banks statements the 
monthly repayments of £360 appeared affordable and suggested that Mr B would still have 
funds available for other car associated costs. 
Given this, I think that even if Black Horse had completed proportionate checks, it would still 
have likely concluded the agreement was affordable to Mr B. For this reason, I dont think 
Black Horse acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman