DRN-4098619
The complaint
Mr M complains about eToro (UK) Ltds platform. He said it consistently gave him the wrong 
prices and didnt react in line with the market. He asked for compensation for his losses. 
What happened
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. He said that Mr M had raised broad 
concerns about eToros service, including allegations that it manipulated its prices and 
cheated its customers. To look into Mr Ms concerns, the investigator asked eToro for a 
random sample of trades in the specific markets Mr M was concerned about, together with 
the prices from its liquidity providers. In short, he concluded that there was no evidence to 
substantiate Mr Ms concerns. He explained in detail the various risks in trading Contracts for 
Difference (CFDs) and the terms which highlighted these risks to him. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said he supplied ample evidence to justify his complaint and he asked 
for compensation. He asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons. Id like to confirm to Mr M that Ive read and considered all his detailed submissions 
and evidence, but I hope he doesnt take it as a discourtesy that I wont be responding to 
each point he has raised or each piece of evidence he has provided. The purpose of my 
decision is to focus on the key issues and give my reasons. 
And in this case, I dont have much to add to what the investigator has already said. 
The evidence Mr M has supplied doesnt show anything untoward or unlawful happening 
with his account, and the sums he has asked for as compensation dont appear to have any 
resemblance to the losses he sustained or the trades themselves. 
The investigator has already reviewed a number of sample trades to reassure Mr M, and he 
has concluded that there was no evidence of eToro cheating him or manipulating prices in 
order to make him lose money. Ive also reviewed that evidence and agree with the 
investigator. 
Most of what Mr M complains about appears to me to be typical risks of trading CFDs  
prices gapping, changing rapidly or markets being so volatile that trades cant be placed 
immediately are all typical of this type of high risk trading.
When looking at complaints about the execution of trades, the size of the loss thats been 
suffered is not usually relevant to whether the complaint should be upheld. As the 
investigator has done, this service would look at the prices being quoted by the firm, 
ensuring they are consistent with how the firm says it would price a particular instrument, 
and are based on a method of calculating a price thats broadly consistent with the 
underlying market. However, as the investigator has explained, Mr M was trading on a 
derived price  he was not taking ownership of any of the securities he was trading. And 
whilst for the majority of markets prices offered by brokers will be similar, they dont have to 
be the same. 
Furthermore, most consumers lose money trading CFDs  its what makes this type of 
trading so high risk. In eToros case, it says that 74% of its clients lose money  which is 
broadly in line with other CFD providers. In Mr Ms case, Im not persuaded his consistently 
loss-making trades are evidence of anything other than the risks of trading CFDs 
materialising. 
With all that being said, in Mr Ms case Im satisfied he has provided insufficient evidence to 
persuade me that he has been duped or scammed into losing his money, or that eToro has 
deliberately manipulated the prices of the markets he was trading on in order to ensure he 
lost money. 
I appreciate Mr M feels strongly about his complaint and the losses he has suffered. But Ive 
seen insufficient evidence of any failings by eToro in this particular complaint, or any issues 
with the execution of the trades Mr M placed. If Mr M doesnt accept this final decision, hell 
be free to pursue eToro elsewhere if he wishes. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman