DRN-3396949
The complaint
This complaint is about a late payment letter Ms L says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
incorrectly sent her about her mortgage account. 
What happened
Barclays sent Ms L a letter dated 14 September 2021 to advise that she had missed her 
contractual monthly payment (CMP) for July 2021. It explained that as Ms L regularly 
overpays, she had additional funds on her account totalling more than her CMP and it had 
used some of the overpaid balance to make Julys payment. The letter went on to give Ms L 
advice about making her payments on time.
Ms L says she didnt miss Julys payment as she has a standing order in place to make her 
CMPs on the last day of every month. Ms L says when she first phoned Barclays about the 
letter, she was told it was an automatically generated letter that appeared to have been sent 
by mistake and that her account was in fact up to date. So Ms L complained that she had 
been sent incorrect information and was concerned that the letter may have been intended 
for someone else.
Barclays investigated Ms Ls complaint and said the letter was automatically generated, but 
the information within it was correct. Barclays could understand why the letter and the phone 
calls she initially had with its call handlers may have been confusing. It advised her that if 
she changed her standing order date to a few days earlier, or set up a direct debit, this would 
not happen again. Barclays offered Ms L £100 in compensation for any confusion caused 
and for the delay in answering her concerns.
Ms L still believes she did not miss Julys payment and is concerned the problem may occur 
again. She says she shouldnt be responsible for any delay in the funds reaching her 
mortgage account when the standing order is in place and has raised a number of other 
concerns. 
Our investigator reviewed Ms Ls complaint points, but they didnt think Barclays needed to 
do anything more. As Ms L disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Ms Ls complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
Ms L phoned Barclays about the letter she received because her payments are made by 
standing order and she didnt believe she had missed any payments. The call handlers Ms L 
initially spoke to told her that the letter was incorrect, she had not missed a payment and her 
overpayments were visible on her account.
Barclays later confirmed the letter was correct as she had missed a payment for July. 
Looking at the dates involved, this was because the standing order for July fell on a 
Saturday, so the funds didnt credit her account until the next working day, which was in 
August. 
The account appeared to be up to date to the call handlers Ms L initially spoke to as the 
overpayment balance had already been topped up by the time the query was made. 
Barclays has accepted the information given by the initial call handlers was incorrect but 
explained Ms L would need to adjust her repayment method if she wanted to avoid the 
problem occurring again. 
Ms L says it would be impossible to ensure the standing order would credit the account on 
time as it may fall on a weekend again even if she changes the date. I understand why Ms L 
may think this, but if the payment date is changed to around four days earlier  this would 
ensure that even if the payment fell on a weekend or bank holiday, the next working day 
would fall within the correct month. So she would not be late in making the payment even if 
weekends and bank holidays affected the date the funds were received by the bank. 
Or, if Ms L set up a direct debit instead of a standing order this would also prevent the 
problem from occurring again. I say this because a standing order is controlled by the 
customer and will not debit from their account until the date arranged. This means if the date 
falls on a weekend there will be a delay in the funds crediting the receiving account. 
Whereas a direct debit is controlled by the bank and the payment date will vary to make up 
for non-working days  ensuring the payment is always received on time.
Ms L has mentioned that she wouldnt have the funds available to pay at an earlier date. 
While I empathise with Ms L, the fact remains that CMPs need to be received by the bank 
within the month they are due and so she will need to adjust her finances to accommodate 
this if she wants to avoid late payments in future. 
I understand Ms L has queried why the adviser who set up her standing order in 2007 (when 
she first took the mortgage) didnt recommend a direct debit or tell her the standing order 
would need to be set up a few days earlier than the CMP was actually due. Ive thought 
about this, but I cant be certain what advice Ms L was given at the time her standing order 
was initially set up. This has not caused a problem up until now and Barclays has advised 
Ms L how she can avoid it being a problem in the future. 
While Ms L feels she shouldnt be held responsible for banks not working on the weekend  
this is how most, if not all, banks currently operate standing orders. Ultimately, Its Ms Ls 
responsibility to ensure her CMPs are made on time and so she will need to make sure her 
payments are cleared on her mortgage account before the end of each month, factoring in 
weekends and bank holidays.
Ms L said she looked back in time and found several instances of payments falling on a 
weekend over the years, so she doesnt understand why this is only a problem now. I 
havent gone through every transaction Ms L has had on her account. Shes held it for 
around 15 years and so even if there have been instances of late payments in the past  
there has never been any detriment to her, and she wasnt aware of any issues up to now, 
so I dont think it would be helpful for me to go back and look at every payment made. 
Ms L is concerned it took Barclays six weeks to contact her about the late payment. And I 
can understand why Ms L has raised concerns about this, but as the overpayment balance 
was used in the interim, there wasnt an immediate need to contact her about it.Ms L has also complained that the call handlers she spoke to wouldnt put her in touch with 
the banks representative named on her final response letter. Based on my knowledge, it 
would be fairly unusual to get in touch with the specific individual named on a final response 
letter. And if Barclays didnt think it was necessary for her to speak to that individual directly, 
thats a legitimate business decision for Barclays to make and I cant ask it to change that.
So, looking back at the main complaint points, while I understand Ms Ls frustration, 
ultimately the payment was received by Barclays in August 2021, which means it was late. 
Barclays has advised Ms L how she can prevent the problem going forward. It has 
apologised for any confusion caused by the letter or information given by the call handlers 
Ms L initially spoke to. Its offered £100 for any stress and inconvenience caused by its 
communication with her. And there has been no impact to Ms Ls credit file. So, considering 
everything, I dont think the impact on Ms L is significant and Im satisfied the amount 
Barclays has offered to resolve her complaint is appropriate in the circumstances. That 
means, I dont think Barclays needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman