DRN-3900252
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund money she lost when she fell victim to 
an investment scam.
Mrs H is being represented by solicitors in her complaint.
What happened
Mrs H was looking for opportunities to grow her income. Shes said that in June 2021 she 
came across an advertisement for a firm N in a news article. She checked Ns website, 
which she thought looked professional, and registered her interest. Shortly afterwards, she 
was contacted by a representative who sold her an investment opportunity.
Mrs H says Ns representative told her they would trade in bitcoins and other currencies on 
her behalf for a commission. But only 10% of her deposit would ever be used for trading, 
with the remaining 90% staying invested. Mrs H says she thought her account manager 
would take their commission from the returns on her trade. She agreed to open an account 
with N and followed her account managers instructions, including downloading remote 
access software. 
Mrs H started off with an initial deposit of £240 and was able to make a small withdrawal 
shortly afterwards. Shes said this reassured her that the investment was working as it 
should have. 
Over the coming days. Mrs Hs account manager persuaded her to invest more money to 
increase her returns from trading. She says that she had set some money aside for home 
improvements but deposited it into her trading account instead. And on one occasion, her 
deposit was also topped up by N. Subsequently, her account manager went on holiday and 
a colleague took over. Mrs H continued depositing more money to fund her investment, 
gradually sending payments from an account with a different bank.
Mrs H says things went wrong when she discovered that her new account manager had 
been trading using all her investment money which had been lost. She felt pressured into 
taking out loans and borrowing money from her partner to recover her losses. 
It was only when her other bank blocked one of the payments and questioned her that Mrs H 
realised shed been scammed.
The following transactions made from Mrs Hs Metro Bank account are relevant here 
Transaction 
DateTransaction Type Merchant / 
PayeeAmount
10 June 2021 Debit card MT4 Prime £240.00
14 June 2021 Credit (withdrawal)* Binance £20.10
14 June 2021 Debit card Binance £2,500.00
21 June 2021 Debit card Binance £5,000.00
21 June 2021 Debit card Binance £5,000.00
1 July 2021 Debit card Bitstamp Sales £2,000.00
2 July 2021 Debit card Wisenex £1,990.60
5 July 2021 Debit card Wisenex £1,674.16
7 July 2021 Credit (withdrawal)* Bitstamp Sales £1,881.99
9 July 2021 Debit card Wisenex £1,810.19
13 July 2021 Loan proceeds Lender 1 £5,000.00 
13 July 2021 Debit card Wisenex £3,171.44
29 July 2021 Pension drawdown Pension Provider £19,920.64
29 July 2021 Faster payment Mrs H £20,000.00
3 August 2021 Faster payment Mrs H £2,000.00
9 August 2021 Loan proceeds Lender 2 £5,000.00 
9 August 2021 Faster payment Coinfloor Ltd £5,000.00
16 August 2021 Faster payment Coinfloor Ltd £1,800.00
20 August 2021 Credit (reversal)* Mrs H £2,000.00
20 August 2021 Faster payment Coinfloor Ltd £2,000.00
24 August 2021 Loan from partner n/a £5,000.00
24 August 2021 Faster payment Coinfloor Ltd £5,400.00
Scam payments total £59,586.39
*Credits total £3,902.09
Total loss £55,684.30
Mrs H reported the scam to Metro Bank in February 2022. It said it was unable to recover 
any funds and refused to reimburse Mrs Hs losses. A complaint was made and 
subsequently referred to our service. 
Our investigator agreed that Metro Bank couldnt have done more with regards to the 
recovery of the payments. But they thought the bank ought to have done more to protect 
Mrs H from loss due to fraud. The investigator recommended Metro Bank to refund all the 
payments from the first £5,000 payment on 21 June 2021 along with interest. Mrs H agreed 
with the investigators recommendations, but Metro Bank didnt. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im mindful that the parties have been waiting for an ombudsmans decision on this case for 
some time. So, Id first like to thank Mrs H and her representative, as well as Metro Bank for 
their patience while weve been considering this case. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), UKs financial services regulator, issued a warning 
about N in August 2021 which said that it was operating in the UK without its permission. 
Given the information Ive found about N during my research, Im persuaded that Mrs H fell 
victim to a scam rather than simply losing money as a result of a high-risk investment.
Recovery
In relation to the debit card payments, Mrs Hs card was issued under the MasterCard 
scheme. Chargeback rights are limited through the scheme rules when it comes to claims 
relating to investment or similar activities. There may be a chargeback right if a merchant 
doesnt make funds transferred to it available for use in the type of transactions for which it received them (such as trading on its platform). But the nature of Mrs Hs claim is that shed 
fallen victim to a scam. As there would be no reasonable prospect of success through the 
card scheme for claims of this nature, I dont think Metro Bank acted unfairly by not pursuing 
a chargeback when it was notified that Mrs H has been scammed.
As for the faster payments, the payments went to a wallet in Mrs Hs name. Metro Bank 
would have only been able to send a recall request to the bank the wallet was held with. Its 
also worth noting that the bank didnt become aware of the scam until several months after 
the payments had been made. We know the funds were subsequently moved on from Mrs 
Hs wallet to the scammer. So, its unlikely recovery would have been successful. 
Duty of Care
While I dont think that Metro Bank could have done more with regards to the recovery of 
Mrs Hs funds, Ive also considered whether it ought to have intervened before allowing the 
payments to be made.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
The disputed payments were made by Mrs H using her legitimate security credentials. 
I therefore conclude that these were authorised payments for which she is liable unless 
theres evidence that Metro Bank could and should reasonably have done more to protect 
her, and that this would have made a difference to her decision-making.
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider good industry practice at the time. Metro Bank is aware of our approach 
of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, to have systems in 
place to identify unusual transactions or other indicators that its customers were at risk of 
fraud and, in some situations, to make additional checks before processing payments, or 
declining them altogether to protect customers from possible financial harm from fraud. 
Ive considered the operation of Mrs Hs account in the months leading up to the disputed 
payments. This is to determine whether they were so unusual or uncharacteristic that I think 
Metro Bank ought to have intervened. I dont consider the first two payments to unusual or 
uncharacteristic based on Mrs Hs account activity. The first payment (for £240) was in 
keeping with regular spending history. And while the second payment (for £2,500) was for a 
higher amount than Mrs Hs usual debit transactions, it wasnt so unusual or out of character 
such that I would have expected Metro Bank to have picked it up as being suspicious. 
But arguably, the third payment (for £5,000) does stand out as unusual activity for Mrs Hs 
account. Although it went to the same merchant that shed paid just days prior, I dont think a 
spending pattern was necessarily established by that point. Ive also kept in mind that the 
transaction amount was double that of the previous transaction. In my view, it would have 
been reasonable for Metro Bank to have properly questioned Mrs H before processing the 
third payment.    Had Metro Bank carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mrs H about the 
payment, Ive no reason to doubt that she would have explained what she was doing and 
how she came to finding out about the investment opportunity. While it is not up to our 
service to dictate what questions a bank should ask, Metro Bank could have, for example, 
asked how Mrs H had been contacted, whether she had parted with personal details in order 
to open a trading account, whether shed allowed a third party to remotely access her 
decide, whether the investment opportunity was linked to a prominent individual or 
advertised on social media, etc. These are all typical features of investment scams  and 
form part of a reasonable line of enquiry to protect a consumer from the potential risk of a 
prominent type of scam. 
Even if she had been sending money to a legitimate crypto platform, it didnt follow that Mrs 
Hs money was safe, or that she wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud or a scam. By 
the time Mrs H made the payments, I think Metro Bank had or ought to have had a good 
enough understanding of how these scams worked to have been able to identify the risk of 
harm from fraud. Including, that the customer often first purchases cryptocurrency and 
moves it on to the fraudster under the assumption that theyre moving it into their own wallet 
or account.
Had Metro Bank done more and warned Mrs H about cryptocurrency scams, Ive no reason 
to doubt that she would have explained the true purpose of her payment. I cant see that Mrs 
H had been given a reason to think she had to hide this information from her bank. Neither 
had she been coached to tell them something different. Im persuaded that Mrs H would 
have looked further into the investment opportunity in general. Indeed, its likely that Mrs H 
would have come across the various warnings about cryptocurrency scams following Metro 
Banks intervention and scam education.
I therefore conclude that Metro Bank missed an opportunity to intervene. And had it done so, 
Mrs H wouldnt have incurred further losses. So, I consider Metro Bank can be held liable for 
them. 
In their recommendation, the investigator didnt take into account two credits  £1,881.99 
on 7 July 2021 and £2,000 on 20 August 2021  which simply put are funds that Mrs H 
recovered directly from the scam after the point I consider Metro Bank ought to have 
intervened. That was an oversight on the investigators part, as of course the funds already 
recovered should be deducted from the loss that Metro Bank needs to reimburse Mrs H.  
Contributory Negligence
Ive also carefully thought about whether Mrs H is partly to blame for what happened. 
However, in this case, I dont think she could have foreseen the risk that the company she 
was dealing with was a scam. She simply didnt appreciate what she was doing or the 
consequences of her actions. 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Mrs H had investment experience such that she 
ought to have realised she had been given inaccurate information, or that what she was told 
was too good to be true. Unaware of the common deceptive tactics of scammers, Mrs H 
unwittingly agreed to continue making deposits until such time that she realised something 
had gone wrong.
Ive thought about this carefully, given the imbalance of knowledge between the parties. 
While acknowledging that Mrs H could have done more research  as can most customers  
overall, Im not persuaded that it would be fair to make a deduction for contributory 
negligence in this case.Putting things right
To put matters right, Metro Bank PLC needs to 
refund Mrs H all the disputed payments from and including 21 June 2021, less the 
funds already recovered after that date; and
pay simple interest at 8% a year on each refunded payment, calculated from the date 
of loss to the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible).
Metro Bank must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs H 
accepts my final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Metro Bank PLC 
needs to put things right for Mrs H as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman