DRN-3184647
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund money they lost as 
the result of a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, and based on the submissions of both parties I understand it to be as 
follows. 
Mr and Mrs N were looking to book flights for their family. They were recommended a travel 
agent by a friend and a cousin, who had used the travel agent previously. Following the 
recommendation, in June 2019, Mr and Mrs N contacted the travel agent.
Mr N has told us he was looking for a flight to depart on 14 December 2019, with his family 
then departing on 21 December 2019. They agreed a price with the travel agent of 
£3,909.10 for the five tickets they required. On 19 June 2019, the travel agent sent an email 
to Mr and Mrs N confirming the booking and showing a deposit was required of £500. The 
email provided bank details for where the deposit should be paid and flight details, indicating 
a departure date of 11 December 2019. A further email was sent by the travel agent later in 
the day, listing the passengers, but this email indicated a departure date of 13 December 
2019.
  
On 20 June 2019, Mr and Mrs N made a payment for £500, through their mobile banking, to 
the account details provided. They received an email from the travel agent on 21 June 2019, 
confirming receipt of their payment for £500. The email included a flight departure date of 13 
December 2019 and indicated that the due date for payment of the balance for the tickets 
was 18 November 2019.
Following this, on 4 October 2019, Mr and Mrs N received a further email from the travel 
agent, requesting a partial payment of £500. The email contained bank details for where the 
payment should be made, which were different to those provided for the payment Mr and 
Mrs N had made in June (this email didnt contain any other detail). Mr and Mrs N made a 
payment of £450 to the account details provided on the same day.
Mr and Mrs N sent their families passport details to the travel agent on 10 December 2019 
and on 11 December 2019, they received an email requesting a further partial payment for 
£500. Mr and Mrs N went ahead and, on 12 December 2019, made a payment of £500 to 
the account details provided. The travel agent responded to Mr and Mrs N, on 12 December 
2019, confirming receipt of payment. The email also contained details of the names of the 
passengers and indicated flight details, with a departure date of 13 December 2019.
Mr and Mrs N have said the travel agent told Mr N he should go to the airport on 14 
December 2019, where he would receive further information about the flight and be able to 
collect his ticket. However, the travel agent didnt contact Mr N and he was unable to fly and 
couldnt get hold of the travel agent until the following day. The travel agent told Mr and Mrs 
N that they had double booked the flights and offered alternatives, but Mr and Mrs N would 
need to pay a further £1,000. Mr and Mrs N went ahead and made a payment for £1,000, in 
a NatWest branch, on 16 December 2019.
 
Mr and Mrs N have told us that the travel agents offered alternative dates, but these werent 
suitable, due to Mr and Mrs Ns children needing to return to school. As alternative dates 
couldnt be arranged, the travel agent told Mr and Mrs N that they would refund them in full. 
But the refund was never received and the travel agent stopped responding to Mr and Mrs 
N.
Overall Mr and Mrs N made the following payments, totalling £2,450;
20 June 2019 £500
4 October 2019 £450
12 December 2019 £500
16 December 2019 £1,000 
Mr and Mrs N raised their concerns with NatWest on 22 January 2020. It responded and 
said it had considered the complaint under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code. It issued its final response on 24 February 2021, not upholding Mr and Mrs Ns 
complaint. In summary, it said it was sorry to hear Mr and Mrs N had been the victim of a 
scam, but it would not look to reimburse the loss. NatWest has also said that as Mr and Mrs 
N had made the payments through online banking, rather than with their card, a chargeback 
was not possible. NatWest added that it tried to recover the money by contacting the banks 
that had received the money, but no funds remained.
Unhappy with NatWests response Mr and Mrs N then brought their complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators looked into things, but didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, she 
didnt think NatWest were liable to refund Mr and Mrs N under the CRM code. This was 
because she thought they had made the payments to the travel agents without having a 
reasonable basis for believing the company they transacted with was legitimate and the 
payments were for genuine goods/services. She thought that there was enough going on 
that Mr and Mrs N ought to have been more cautious before making the payments. She also 
didnt consider there was any other reason why NatWest should refund the funds lost.
 
Mr and Mrs N didnt consider that our investigators view was fair, they have said they know 
people who have been refunded by their banks, who have fallen victim to the same scam 
travel agent. As agreement hasnt been reached the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
I know Mr and Mrs N have referred to other consumers, who have received refunds, having 
fallen victim to the same scam. But I would point out that, while on the surface complaints 
may seem quite similar, each complaint is determined by its own individual circumstances.
 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
NatWest should have reimbursed Mr and Mrs N under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr and Mrs N from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud. Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs N have fallen victim to a scam. But this isnt 
enough for them to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a 
level of care on Mr and Mrs N too.
 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case.
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, I dont think Mr and Mrs N had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payments were for genuine goods or that the firm they 
transacted with was legitimate. Ill explain why;
- Mr and Mrs N have told us that they intended for Mr N to travel on 14 December 
2019, with Mrs N and the rest of the family following on 21 December 2019. But from 
the evidence Mr and Mrs N have provided, none of the information the travel agent 
provided gave flight details for these dates. I think this should reasonably have 
caused Mr and Mrs N some concern. Given the flight dates are of such fundamental 
importance when booking tickets, I think it would be fair and reasonable to have 
expected Mr and Mrs N to question this. 
- I say that especially as the flight details also appear to change. With one email sent 
to Mr and Mrs N on 19 June 2019 showing a departure date of 11 December 2019, 
but others showing a departure date of 13 December 2019. I think this ought to have 
been particularly concerning for Mr and Mrs N as they were both the wrong dates 
and also pre-dated the date they intended to travel. 
- The information that the travel agent provided also didnt break down the different 
dates that Mr and Mrs N and their family intended to travel. I think its reasonable to 
expect that a legitimate travel company will provide details of all of the flights, where 
there are multiple people travelling, especially where the dates of departure for the 
passengers differ. 
- When Mr N arrived at the airport on 14 December 2019, he wasnt able to travel as 
he hadnt received any details about his ticket. He was also unable to contact the 
travel agent. I think this ought to have reasonably caused Mr N concern that 
something may have been amiss, but Mr and Mrs N went on to make a further 
payment.
- The payments Mr and Mrs N have made, went to three different accounts and 
seemingly to personal accounts, rather than business accounts. Im not persuaded 
that Mr and Mrs N would have necessarily known at the time that they werent 
making payments to business accounts, but I think it ought to have seemed unusual 
for a legitimate company to have requested payments be sent to multiple different 
accounts.
- Mr and Mrs N also werent given the option of making a payment via a different 
method, such as a debit or credit card that may have offered them more protection.  And the communication from the travel agent doesnt indicate that it was offering any 
protection from a recognised authority (such as ATOL).
- Im also mindful that the full balance hadnt been paid at the time Mr and Mrs N 
expected to travel. I dont think this is typical of how a legitimate travel company will 
operate. It appears here that Mr and Mrs N have, at one point, been given a date by 
which the balance should be paid, but this date seems to have passed without a 
request for the balance to be paid. Mr and Mrs N have said they were told they could 
pay the balance, when they arrived at their destination. I think its fair and reasonable 
to say a genuine travel company would be more meticulous with regards to payment 
arrangements, and expect payment to be fully made ahead of travel dates.
- Mr and Mrs N have told us they didnt carry out any checks on the company they 
used, as they had been recommended by a family member and friend. I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs N may have been influenced to use the company based 
on this recommendation. But where the travel agent had provided incorrect flight 
details from the outset, before Mr and Mrs N, had made any payments. I think it 
ought to have caused them to have approached the payments with more caution.
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Mr and Mrs N from proceeding. But when considering the 
specific circumstances of this case and the factors in the round, on balance, I think that there 
was enough going on and sufficient red flags that Mr and Mrs N ought reasonably to have 
taken further steps to protect themselves.
On that basis, Im not satisfied that Mr and Mrs N had a reasonable basis for believing they 
were paying a legitimate firm. But I have also considered whether NatWest met the standard 
set for them under the CRM Code.
Should NatWest have done more to prevent the payments from being made? 
The CRM Code requires NatWest to take reasonable steps to protect their customers from 
APP scams. This includes being on the lookout for, and helping to prevent, payments that 
could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. Where they identify potential scam risks, 
NatWest are required to provide effective warnings. 
So, Ive considered whether the payments Mr and Mrs N made, were so unusual or out of 
character that I think NatWest shouldve been concerned that they may have been the victim 
of a scam and intervened. In this case, having considered the size of the payments against 
the typical activity on their account, which Ive seen from their statements  Im not 
persuaded in this case that NatWest shouldve identified the payments as potentially 
suspicious. On that basis, I wouldnt have expected NatWest to have issued a warning or 
taken steps to discuss the payments with Mr and Mrs N before following their payment 
instructions. Im satisfied that in this case NatWest met their obligations under the CRM 
Code, and therefore I cant fairly ask them to refund Mr and Mrs N. 
Im mindful that Mr and Mrs N asked NatWest to gain reimbursement through a chargeback. 
But NatWest werent able to employ the debit card chargeback arrangements for these 
transactions. This is because the payments were not made using a debit card, but by bank 
transfer, and this method of payment does not allow for chargebacks.
Could NatWest have recovered the funds for Mr and Mrs N? From what Ive seen NatWest contacted the receiving banks the same day the scam was 
reported to them, but unfortunately no funds remained to be recovered. Based on this Im 
satisfied that NatWest contacted the receiving banks in a timely manner, so I cant fairly ask 
it to take any further action.
I am sorry that Mr and Mrs N have lost out, and I also understand the whole experience must 
have been very frustrating and upsetting for them, but in the circumstances, for the reasons 
explained, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to order NatWest to refund Mr and Mrs N 
the money they sadly lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman