DRN-2668818
The complaint
Mr V complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMF) refused to let him reject a faulty 
car.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr V acquired a second-hand cabriolet car costing £5,440 funded by a hire 
purchase agreement. It was some nine years old and had covered 95,880 miles.
He discovered the roof wasnt working properly and he contacted he dealer the day after he 
had taken delivery. He was told to contact the warranty company and after some delays the 
roof was repaired. A week later he noticed the rear seat was wet and his seat belt was 
hanging by a thread.
He contacted SMF on 22 May, in the middle of dealing with the fault. When the leak 
appeared, he made a complaint which was rejected. Around that time his warranty was 
voided and he was told it could cost £1,800 to address the leak. Mr V raised other issues 
including a faulty key, a scratched window and later faulty electrics which appeared to have 
been damaged by the water ingress.
Mr Vs request to reject the car was refused so he brought his complaint to this service. It 
was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. He noted the 
problems occurred within 30 days of Mr V collecting the car. Mr V had taken it in for repair, 
but our investigator thought he may not have been aware of his rights at that point. He 
thought it right that Mr V be allowed to reject the car. 
Our investigator also considered the other faults including the electrical problems. He noted 
as these happened with six months it was up to SMF to show these werent present at the 
point of sale. It had relied on the MOT which had been carried out in February, but our 
investigator didnt think that the electrical fault would have shown on a MOT report. The 
issue wasnt with the headlight itself but the connection to it and there was a two-month gap 
between the MOT and the sale. It was also noted that Mr V had been without a car for two 
weeks.
Our investigator recommended that in addition to rejection Mr V be refunded two months and 
two weeks worth of payments.
SMF didnt agree and said Mr V hadnt exercised his right to reject and he accepted the 
repair. It said that as work had been carried out on the car it was unable to establish if the 
electrical faults had been present at the point of sale. It also said Mr V had been given a 
courtesy car for the two weeks.
Our investigator responded to say that the faulty roof had been repaired under the warranty 
as advised by the dealer. If that wasnt successful then the dealer had had its one attempt to 
effect a repair. He thought the leak was a consequential failure of the faulty roof. This had 
been confirmed by the main dealer which had made the repair. He thought this had had an 
impact on Mr Vs use of the car. SMF didnt agree and asked that the matter be considered 
by an ombudsman. In June Mr V told this service the car had caught fire and had been 
written off. I asked SMF for details of the insurance claim and after a number of exchanges it 
said that it received a payment of £4,207 in total.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I said that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I needed to have regard to the relevant 
law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I considered to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
SMF is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I noted the car was quite elderly and had covered a fairly high mileage and so a degree of 
wear and tear was to be expected. However, I could see that it had a significant fault with the 
roof a day after it was collected by Mr V. He wasnt offered the opportunity to reject it by the 
dealer even though I believe he would have been entitled to do so. The roof was repaired, 
but within a week Mr V had identified a leak. This has been confirmed by a main dealer.
Although I couldnt say for certain that the leak was directly related to the roof fault it seemed 
the most likely explanation. I also pointed out that this service regards a car as a single entity 
and the dealer has one opportunity to make a repair. If a further fault is identified within the 
relevant timescale then rejection is an option.
The issues in question were not matters of wear and tear and even though the car was 
elderly I thought rejection was the right option, but that is now no longer a possibility. This 
left the matter of redress. I noted Mr V had done some 10,000 miles in the car for the first 10 
months and so he had reasonable use of it. Therefore, I believed it was right that he pay for 
the period when he had the car. 
However, he did have numerous problems which affected his overall use and his experience 
for which I believed some compensation is due. Given the car has been destroyed there was 
no need for formal rejection and as such I considered that SMF should pay Mr V 
compensation for the trouble and upset he had suffered. It should also refund two weeks 
worth of payments to reflect the time he was without the car.
My provisional decision was that Specialist Motor Finance Limited should pay £300 
compensation plus £108 to reflect the two weeks he was without the car. 
Mr V said that SMV was pursuing him for in excess of £900. He explained the car had gone up in flames and the fireman had told him it had been caused by an electrical fault. He 
added that the car had been suffering from electrical issues which he had been complaining 
about from early on.
I asked SMV for details of the sums it was seeking from Mr V. In due course it responded 
and explained that after the insurance company had paid out on 14 August 2020 there was a 
shortfall which it was seeking from Mr V. This totalled £1,051.72 which included arrears of 
£590.10. It said that as a gesture of goodwill it had now removed the option to purchase fee 
of £10 and three late or missed payment fees of £36. The current sum outstanding was 
£1,015.72.
I issued a second provisional decision which said:
I said that in my first provisional decision I explained that I considered Mr V should have 
been allowed to reject the car at the outset, but this had been denied to him. He had suffered 
from a number of issues and about six months after acquisition he told this service that the 
electrics had blown causing a headlight to burn out and the boot not to open. 
He believed the water ingress had caused the electrical issues. Our investigator spoke to the 
garage which confirmed the water had been the cause of the electrical issues It seems likely 
that this contributed to the fire which destroyed the car.
Our investigator had suggested SMF should allow Mr V to reject the car and I was in 
agreement with his view, but then Mr V informed us the car had been destroyed. My 
provisional decision was intended to result in the same outcome in principle. However, I was 
unaware that SMF was seeking further sums of money.
In the light of this I concluded that the redress needed to be amended. While I accepted Mr 
V has been able to make use of the car I didnt think he need pay any more than he had 
done. In addition to the original faults he had to deal with a car that caught fire leaving him 
without transport. I remained of the view that the car wasnt fit for purpose and that the 
redress needs to reflect that and the subsequent fire.
As such I amended the compensation and removed the payment due for lack of use. I said I 
thought that Specialist Motor Finance Limited should unwind the agreement with nothing 
further to pay. It should also pay £100 compensation and remove any adverse entries it has 
made on Mr Vs credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr V agreed and SMF sent an attachment which couldnt be opened and it asked for an 
extension of the deadline to respond. That has now expired and no response has been 
received. Mr V is seeking a new mortgage and it would be unfair to delay matters yet further 
so I consider my second provisional decision should stand. 
Putting things right
 The agreement should be unwound with nothing further to pay.
My final decision
My final decision is that I direct Specialist Motor Finance Limited unwind the agreement with nothing further to pay. It should also pay £100 compensation and remove any adverse 
entries it has made on Mr Vs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman