DRN-2873465
The complaint
Mrs P complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited (Worldpay) charged her for the terminal.
What happened
In March 2020, Mrs P stopped using Worldpay and ended the agreement with them. In 
October 2020, she was charged £440 for the non-return of the payment terminal.
Mrs P complained. She said she wasnt aware she would have to return the terminal, or that 
there would be a charge. She had disposed of the terminal. She hadnt read the rental 
agreement as it was too long and complicated. And  she didnt get the letter from Worldpay 
saying they wanted the terminal back.
Worldpay said that theyd acted in line with their terms and conditions  which Mrs P had 
agreed to when she signed the agreement with them. She hadnt returned the terminal and 
so the charge of £367 plus VAT applied.
Mrs P brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said Worldpays terms and conditions 
and the hire agreement - gave them the right to charge the fee. Worldpay had written to Mrs 
P at the business address  and this was also the address on the agreement form that Mrs P 
had signed in February 2018. It was unfortunate that Mrs P didnt read the hire contract  but 
that didnt mean that it wasnt valid.
Mrs P asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two aspects to Mrs Ps complaint. Firstly, whether Worldpays terms and 
conditions, and the hire agreement entitled them to charge the fee. And secondly, the 
communications with Mrs P when the contract was terminated.
On the terms and conditions, its clear that Worldpay could charge the fee. They say the 
terminal was Worldpays. I quote The Equipment will remain Our property. You shall not 
sell, change, encumber, part with possession or otherwise dispose of the equipment.
Ive looked at the agreement that Mrs P signed with Worldpay on 9 February 2018. It says 
that the equipment must be returned to Worldpay upon termination of the agreement and "If 
the equipment is not recovered by us within one week after termination of the agreement, an 
amount of £85 (plus VAT).(is payable per week)You will pay Us the sum of:... up to 
£367(plus VAT) for the replacement of Terminal
Its not in dispute that the terminal wasnt returned. So  for me, its clear that Worldpay were 
entitled to charge the fee. Mrs P says she wasnt aware of the terms of the contract  as it 
was long and complicated. But  I can see that it ran to only two pages. And - I dont think 
its reasonable to accept that Mrs P can rely on an argument to say she didnt read it or 
understand it.
Looking at the communications. Worldpay sent their termination letter dated 1 May 2020 to 
Mrs P at the business address  which was at the concourse at a mainline station in 
London. This said simply call us on xxxxx to agree a suitable method of collection for the 
terminalwe would require the terminal to be retrieved by 15 May 2020 and if it was not you 
would be liable to pay £85 +VAT per week. or up to a value of £367+VAT. This is in line 
with the terms and conditions of your Worldpay Merchant Services Agreement. with 
COVID 19 we are willing to extend this date to 29 May 2020. Mrs P says she didnt get he 
letter - and this was also the subject of a previous complaint with Worldpay  which 
Worldpay agreed to settle in her favour. This complaint didnt go to an ombudsman but was 
about the non-delivery of the terminal - it appeared to be delivered to the wrong place. It 
wasnt about correspondence being sent to the wrong address. Worldpay settled the 
complaint informally and paid compensation. So  I dont think that affects Mrs Ps complaint 
here. 
Ive considered this aspect of Mrs Ps complaint. The letter was sent to the address on 
Worldpays file. This was also the address on the hire agreement form. But  I also think its 
unlikely that Mrs P did receive the letter  as Mrs P told us shed closed the business down 
as a result of the pandemic. Also, given what we know about the effect of lockdown at that 
time  I can accept it was unlikely the business was open at a main line station in London at 
that time. But  I dont think its fair to expect Worldpay to have changed its approach to 
sending letters to Mrs P for this reason. And I must decide  would the probable non-receipt 
of the letter override Worldpays terms and conditions and the contract that Mrs P signed? 
And  on balance and in the circumstances of this case, I dont think it does.
And so  and I accept this will be disappointing to Mrs P  I am not upholding her complaint 
and I wont be asking Worldpay to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman