DRN-3786426
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard handled his 
request for money back in respect of accommodation he paid for using his Barclaycard credit 
card.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr F paid a deposit of £246.38 to a supplier Ill call C for accommodation 
abroad for his son. The accommodation was booked for 19-26 September 2020 and the total 
cost was around £500. 
Mr Fs son contacted C in June 2020 and asked what would happen if he was unable to 
travel due to the ongoing Covid-19 related restrictions in place.
C responded to say in case of inpredictable (sic) lockdown here in Italy' it would give the 
possibility to get a refund or to reschedule the reservation.
On 31 July 2020 Mr Fs son contacted C again to explain his flights had been cancelled so 
he would be unable to visit in September. He asked if C would consider refunding his 
deposit.
On 17 August 2020 C told Mr F that it couldnt refund the deposit hed paid as it was still able 
to provide the accommodation he had booked. C did however provide Mr F with a Bonus 
Code which it said was of the value of 287 Euros valid from 18/08/2020 until 31/10/2021; It 
is not refundable and spendable for a stay at (C) just once
Mr F asked Barclaycard to step in and help him get a refund around January 2021. 
Barclaycard said it couldnt help so Mr F made a complaint.  
In response to Mr Fs complaint Barclaycard said Mr F had brought his dispute to it too late 
for it to raise a chargeback (a method of recovering funds from a supplier). It also considered 
its liability to Mr F under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) but it didnt 
think the necessary criteria for a claim had been met as C was supplying its services to      
Mr Fs son and not Mr F. Mr F said he didnt receive Barclaycards response. He referred his 
complaint to our service. 
While the complaint was with us Mr F said his son asked C if it could extend the expiry date 
of the voucher in August 2021 as Covid-19 restrictions hadnt fully lifted by then. He said he 
didnt receive a response from C. 
An investigator here didnt think Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. He said a chargeback 
was unlikely to have succeeded as the hotel was available for him to use. And he didnt think 
Mr F had a valid claim under Section 75 because he did not book with nor stay at the 
accommodation so did not meet the necessary criteria for a claim. So, he didnt think 
Barclaycard had treated Mr F unfairly. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Covid-19 pandemic brought with it many issues relating to travel which could not go 
ahead as planned, with lots of flights and holidays being cancelled.
In many instances in the early days of the pandemic, where the supplier hadnt refunded the 
cost of a service that didnt go ahead, the customer could look to their bank for a refund and 
commonly the banks refunded customers where the supplier had failed to, when appropriate. 
But the right to a refund when a trip hasnt happened as expected because of Covid-19 isnt 
automatic. It is dependent on the individual circumstances of each case and the legal 
position, which can be complicated. 
Here, I am looking at the actions of Barclaycard and whether it has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the way it handled Mr Fs request for help in getting his money back. This will 
take into account the circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier has acted, but 
there are also other considerations, such as the scheme rules a bank has to follow and its 
own obligations. 
There are two main ways a bank can help a customer to recover money paid to a supplier 
who hasnt provided what was promised. It can try to recover the money from the supplier 
through a process known as chargeback. Or it can assess whether its customer has a valid 
claim under Section 75. 
Chargeback 
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a 
payment Mr F made to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute with the 
supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer. While it is good 
practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there is some 
prospect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be appropriate 
for the bank to raise a chargeback. There are grounds or dispute conditions set by the 
relevant card scheme and if these are not met a chargeback is unlikely to succeed. 
Barclaycard said it didnt raise a chargeback because it was too late under the relevant card 
scheme rules and because it probably wouldnt have succeeded anyway as the 
accommodation was available for Mr Fs son to use. 
There were dispute conditions in the card scheme rules for services not received where a 
merchant was unwilling or unable to provide services. 
The scheme rules set out that there were time limits within which a chargeback had to be 
raised under this dispute condition. A chargeback had to be raised within 120 calendar days 
of when the cardholder expected to receive the services. 
The accommodation was booked for 19-26 September 2020. So, Mr F had 120 days from 26 
September 2020 to raise a chargeback  which took him up until 24 January 2021. Mr F 
signed Barclaycards dispute form on 15 January 2021 and Barclaycard said this was logged 
on its system on 22 January 2021. So, things were very tight. 
But even if Barclaycard had raised a chargeback under the services not received dispute 
code, it seems unlikely it would have succeeded. The dispute condition was available where a cardholder had not received services because the merchant was either unwilling or unable 
to provide them. But Ive seen no evidence to suggest the accommodation booked was not 
available to use when Mr Fs son was going to stay there. The reason Mr Fs son was unable 
to receive the services appears to have been because of travel restrictions on him, not 
because of Cs inability or unwillingness to provide them.
So, whether Barclaycard had enough time or not, I dont think it would have been able to 
recover the deposit under the services not received dispute code. It seems most likely the 
chargeback would have been defended by C on the basis the services were available.
There were also dispute conditions for cancelled services available when the cardholder 
had to cancel or return services, the merchant did not process a credit and the merchant did 
not apply its cancellation policy. 
That dispute condition might have been relevant in Mr Fs case as it appears the 
accommodation was cancelled by his son in July 2020 and he may have been entitled to a 
small refund under Cs terms of business. 
Looking however at Mr Fs dispute form, in response to the question have you returned the 
goods or attempted to cancel the services, he answered N/A. So, even if Mr F did have 
grounds under the cancelled services dispute condition, hed told Barclaycard that he hadnt 
cancelled the services. And given how tight timings were (the time limit conditions were also 
120 days from the expected date of delivery) it seems very unlikely to me that it would have 
become clear enough within the few days Barclaycard had to raise a chargeback that this 
might have been the dispute code with the better prospects of success. 
So overall, I dont think Barclaycard was acting unfairly or unreasonably when it didnt raise a 
chargeback.
Section 75
Section 75 provides that subject to certain criteria the borrower under a credit agreement 
has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. 
One of those criteria was that Mr Fs claim had to relate to a transaction financed by a 
debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement where he was the debtor. In other words, given 
Mr Fs claim here, it had to relate to a transaction between him and C, that was financed by 
his Barclaycard. 
Mr Fs claim does not however appear to relate to a transaction between him and C. Rather, 
it appears to relate to one made between Mr Fs son and C. I say that for several reasons. 
Firstly, Mr F was not utilising Cs services, his son was. Secondly, all of the information that 
has been supplied that relates to the booking shows that C communicated with Mr Fs son 
and not Mr F. For example, right after the booking was made Mr Fs son contacted C and 
explained he made the booking. So, it appears C considered Mr Fs son and not Mr F to be 
its customer. Thirdly, Mr F has explained that he made the booking in his sons name, so it 
appears unlikely C would have known that Mr F was the party using its website to place the 
booking. Lastly, having viewed an archived version of Cs terms and conditions that most 
likely would have applied to the booking, there was nothing that led me to conclude that 
simply making payment for the booking made Mr F a party to the contract with C in this 
particular case. 
Because it appears that Barclaycard did not finance a transaction between Mr F and C there 
is no DCS agreement made out in this case. So, its unlikely that Mr F had a valid claim under Section 75 meaning Barclaycard was not liable to him for a refund of his deposit. I 
dont find therefore that Barclaycard treated Mr F unfairly by declining to meet his claim. 
I do sympathise with Mr F as he appears to have lost his deposit in very unfortunate 
circumstances that were not his fault. However, I can only reasonably require Barclaycard to 
pay it back to Mr F it treated him unfairly by not raising a chargeback or by declining his 
Section 75 claim. And unfortunately for Mr F here, I dont find that was the case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman