DRN-2442252
The complaint
Mr R has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold him a Privilege 
account and Privilege Premier account. These were taken out in 2001 and 2004 
respectively.
Mr Rs representative says they were mis-sold as, amongst other things, Mr R did not agree 
to the accounts, the accounts were upgraded fraudulently, and Mr R did not need the 
benefits the accounts came with.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered what Mr R and Co-op had said and they concluded that 
the accounts had not been mis-sold.
Mr R disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to packaged bank accounts on our website and Ive used that 
to help me decide this case. And having considered everything provided, I dont think the 
accounts were mis-sold. I will explain why.
Mr R has explained that he did not agree to either account. There is not much evidence from 
the time of these sales, but that is not surprising given how long ago the accounts were 
taken out. In relation to the first upgrade, looking at the fees paid by Mr R it seems as if prior 
to the upgrade he was being charged £8 a month for using his overdraft; (My understanding 
is that there were additional yearly charges in addition to this) whereas the cost of the 
account at the time was £6. So, for this upgrade, Mr R was, in effect, saving money by 
holding the account if he used his overdraft. From the list of charges I have been provided 
with Mr R does appear to have been be using his overdraft frequently. Given this I think it 
more likely than not that Mr R agreed to this account as it had the potential to save him 
money versus using an overdraft on a fee free account.
In relation to the second upgrade, the Privilege Premier account, notes from the time of the 
sale suggest that the upgrade occurred as Mr R needed to increase his overdraft. I can see 
that prior to this he did attempt to apply for a larger overdraft, but this request was declined 
and I understand that having the Privilege Premier account guaranteed an overdraft limit. It 
appears that Mr Rs overdraft limit was increased after taking out the Privilege Premier 
account and therefore I think that it is likely that he did agree to the account in order to 
increase his overdraft.
Mr R first upgraded to the Privilege account after holding a fee-free account for a number of 
months. So, I think that he was aware that Co-op did offer fee free accounts and that he was 
eligible for a fee free account if he wanted one. I think that Mr R agreed to both upgrades as 
he was interested in the overdraft benefits that they provided, which he could not obtain on a 
fee free account.
Co-op was required to give Mr R important information about the accounts, so he 
understood what he was agreeing to. I do not know what information Mr R was provided with 
when he agreed to these accounts and I accept that he may not have been provided with all  
the information about all of the benefits. But from the notes at the time of the sale and from 
Mr Rs representative explaining that Mr R did not need the benefits of the account I dont 
think that finding out more information about the insurance benefits that the account came 
with wouldve changed his decision to take out the account. I say this because I am satisfied 
that the main reason Mr R agreed to both accounts was for the overdraft benefits that they 
came with.
I accept that over time the accounts may not have provided value for money and in hindsight 
Mr R may regret agreeing to these accounts but ultimately, I think he agreed to them 
because at the time he wanted the overdraft benefits that they came with. So, I dont think 
that Co-op mis-sold these accounts. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman