DRN-3198064
The complaint
Mrs E complains about the actions of Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money when 
she was tricked into transferring money as a result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. On 16 March 2021 Mrs E was sadly the 
victim of a scam. She was tricked, by a scammer, into believing she needed to pay for some 
undelivered mail with a well-known company. Shortly after Mrs E received two calls, most 
likely by the same scammer, pretending to be from one of her bank account providers and 
then afterwards from Virgin Money. During the call with the scammer pretending to be from 
Virgin Money, Mrs E was asked to make two transactions worth £30,000 in total, which she 
did. 
When Mrs E attempted to send the second transaction of £15,000 this was put on hold by 
Virgin Money who attempted to call Mrs E and left her a voicemail. Unfortunately, Mrs E was 
on the phone to the scammers at the time the voicemail was received. Mrs E told the 
scammers about the voicemail and provided the reference number Virgin Money left her. 
The scammers then called Virgin Money, pretending to be Mrs E, and the second 
transaction was released. 
Mrs E was suspicious about what had happened, so she called Virgin Money later on 16 
March 2021. But Virgin Money didnt raise the scam with the receiving banks until a few days 
later. Mrs E was unhappy with the way the issue was handled so she made a complaint. 
Virgin Money considered the complaint and said it couldnt retrieve the £30,000 Mrs E sent 
to the scammers from the receiving banks. And that it didnt do anything wrong when 
allowing Mrs E to send the £30,000 to the scammers. But it did say it shouldve raised the 
scam with the receiving banks on 16 March 2021 when Mrs E called to report what had 
happened. Virgin Money added that one of the receiving banks had confirmed that if it had 
raised the scam on 16 March 2021 £420 wouldve been recovered. The receiving bank said 
that when the scam was raised £116.83 was left in the account so that was returned. Virgin 
Money then paid the difference (£303.17) to Mrs E in recognition of the delay in raising the 
scam. But the other receiving bank initially said only £11.67 remained so there was nothing 
further to return to Mrs E from that account. 
Miss W remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service. She added that 
Virgin Money didnt do enough to stop the transactions or recover her funds and shouldve 
provided a better service when the scam was raised. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Virgin Money didnt do 
anything wrong by allowing the transactions to be sent to the scammers. He said the first 
payment of £15,000 wasnt unusual or suspicious and the second payment was held by 
Virgin Money, but the scammers were able to get it to release the payment due to the 
personal details Mrs E had given them. He added that although Virgin Money hadnt raised 
the scam soon enough, what had been returned was fair because that was all that could be 
retrieved from the receiving banks. 
Mrs E disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said Virgin Money 
shouldve done more to stop both transactions as she didnt make large payments regularly 
and she didnt answer Virgin Moneys call or return its voicemail because she was paranoid 
due to the scammers influence over her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mrs E has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
It is common ground that Mrs E authorised the scam payments totalling £30,000. I accept 
that these were authorised payments even though Mrs E was the victim of a scam. She 
provided valid instructions through her online banking. So, although it wasnt her intention to 
pay money to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the 
terms of her account, Mrs E is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for Virgin Money to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a 
payment in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Virgin Moneys first obligation is to follow the instructions that Mrs E provides. But if those
instructions are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect Virgin 
Money to intervene and to ask their customer more about the intended transaction before 
processing it. Id also expect Virgin Money to provide suitable warnings about common 
scams to help their customers make an informed decision as to whether to continue with the 
payment. There might also be cases where its appropriate for Virgin Money to refuse to 
follow the instruction if there are good grounds to believe it is being made as a result of a 
fraud or scam. 
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions by Mrs E (to transfer £15,000 twice to 
the scammers) given to Virgin Money (either individually or collectively) were unusual in 
relation to her typical account activity. So, Ive reviewed the account statements for the six 
months prior to the scam payments being made. I think this gives a sufficient sample size to 
fairly assess the activity. The account typically maintained a healthy balance which ranged 
between around £20,000 and on occasions up to around £24,000. And there was a 
transaction of £19,990 made in January 2021. I note Mrs E said this was a one-off payment 
and was much greater than she usually sent, but I still need to take that payment into 
consideration here. 
As a result, Im not satisfied Mrs Es first transaction ought to have stood out to Virgin Money 
as unusual or suspicious because she had recently made a similar payment. So, I dont think 
there was any reason for Virgin Money to have intervened and to have asked questions of 
Mrs E at that point. When Mrs E sent the second transaction, at the request of the scammers, Virgin Money did 
put it on hold, calling her and leaving a voicemail. Unfortunately, and I accept Mrs E was 
paranoid and stressed by what she was told by the scammers, she provided details of the 
voicemail and the reference number to the scammers. The scammers then proceeded to call 
Virgin Money to get the second transaction released. 
Unfortunately, Virgin Money doesnt have the recording of this call. So, I need to make a 
finding  on balance - and based upon what I think is most likely to have happened. Mrs E 
had provided personal details to the scammers when she responded to the e-mail scam and 
then over the phone. When Virgin Money stopped the transaction and asked Mrs E to call 
back it needed to be satisfied it was actually her that wanted to make the payment. Id 
expect it to ask some security questions that only Mrs E should know so the payment could 
be released. And Mrs E had provided some of the answers to these security questions (such 
as her mothers maiden name) to the scammers. So, Im satisfied its more likely than not the 
scammers had the required security information about Mrs E to get the second payment 
released. 
I feel its worth mentioning here that even if I did agree that Mrs Es first payment shouldve 
been stopped by Virgin Money, Im not satisfied it wouldve made a difference here. Its clear 
Mrs E was under the influence of the scammers at this point, which is why she provided 
details of Virgin Moneys voicemail, the reference to the scammers and her personal details. 
Ive also considered that Mrs E provided the scammers with enough personal information for 
the scammers to more likely than not get the second payment released. I want to be clear 
that Im not blaming Mrs E for what happened here. She was the victim of a cruel and 
sophisticated scam. But what the scammers did to her and the information she provided to 
them doesnt mean that I can hold Virgin Money liable for both transactions. 
I understand Mrs E is unhappy with the amount of time it took Virgin Money to recover her 
money from the receiving banks and with the way she was treated after raising the scam. As 
a result, she feels Virgin Money couldve done more to retrieve her funds here.  
Virgin Money has accepted it didnt raise the scam quickly enough. Ive seen evidence that 
one of the receiving banks confirmed that only £11.67 remained in the account on 16 March 
2021 and this was returned to Mrs E. So, the delay didnt make much of a difference here 
because the money was moved very quickly. 
The other receiving bank said £116.83 remained in its account when Virgin Money raised the 
scam. But if the scam had been raised on 16 March 2021 £420 wouldve remained. And 
Virgin Money has made up the difference between those two figures here which is what Id 
expect it to do to recognise the delay it caused. I note Mrs E is also unhappy with how she 
was treated by Virgin Money when trying to raise the scam. Ive considered that carefully 
and Im satisfied the offer to make up the difference for the delay in raising the scam is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
So, Im not going to ask Virgin Money to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman