DRN-3505093
The complaint
Mr D complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (TPF) rejected his claim under section 
75 Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974 in respect of the purchase of a timeshare product.
What happened
Mr D acquired travel points from a company I will call M, funded by his credit card with TPF.  
These proved to be worthless and he made a claim under section 75 CCA. TPF upheld the 
claim and refunded £11,529.06 in May 2020. 
Prior to this successful section 75 claim Mr D had entered into a contract with a company I 
will call J which offered a holiday membership scheme. He says that he was induced into 
making this purchase when discussing relinquishing his travel points with M. Mr D says that 
he was told during the course of a hard sell that J would offer a better deal than M. He paid J 
£11,116 from his bank account. Subsequently he told TPF that J had misled him and he 
asked that it refund the cost of £11,116. 
TPF said that the contract with J was separate to the one with M and it was not party to the 
transaction with J. It rejected his claim. Mr D brought the matter to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that she 
didnt believe TPF had funded the agreement with J and so it would not be liable under 
section 75 CCA.
Mr D didnt agree and said that the agreement with J was a replacement purchase and so 
was in effect part funded by TPF. He said TPF was involved in the chain which led to the 
purchase of J membership.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier (D-C-S) chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Section 75 (1) states: 
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, (my emphasis) any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like 
claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally 
liable to the debtor.
Mr D has provided a copy of the contract with J and it a free standing one which carries no 
reference to M. It is between J and Mr and Mrs D. The sum payable is £11,116 which Mr D 
paid by bank transfer from a current account. No payment was made using the TPF account. 
Section 75 requires there be an unbroken chain between the debtor (Mr D) the creditor 
(none) and the supplier (J). There is no creditor as Mr D did not borrow the money to pay the 
money due to J under the agreement. That means that section 75 does not have any 
relevance to this purchase.
I have noted that Mr D says he entered into the agreement with J following a hard sell by 
representatives of M. I can see that J and M have a common director and so they are 
connected. But that is not enough to allow me to say that there is an unbroken chain for the 
transaction with J. The contract with J required payment of £11,116 and there is no 
reference to the surrender of travel points from the agreement with M as part of that 
agreement. While the sale of the agreement with J may have been proposed by 
representatives of M it is a separate agreement and there is no documented link to J with the 
agreement between Mr and Mrs D and M.
As such I cannot safely conclude that the transaction was financed by TPF. Quite simply it 
was not party to that transaction. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr D, but 
I cannot conclude that TPF was wrong to reject his claim.
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman