DRN-2362937
The complaint
Mrs H complains because AXA PPP Healthcare Limited reclaimed money it paid to medical 
providers under her private medical insurance policy, leaving Mrs H to pay for these costs 
herself. 
Mrs Hs complaint has been brought to us by her representative, Mr H. All references to Mrs 
H include her representative. 
What happened
Mrs H held a private medical insurance policy, provided by AXA. The policy renewed in May 
every year and was paid for by monthly direct debit. 
In July 2019, Mrs H contacted AXA to ask about claiming for an ongoing problem relating to 
her eyesight. AXA said the payments for the policy were in arrears and it wouldnt cover any 
further treatments until all the payments were brought up to date.
In November 2019, AXA authorised Mrs H to have treatment. However, when the November 
monthly payment for the policy wasnt made in full, AXA told Mrs H that no claims would be 
covered until the payments were brought up to date. Mrs H agreed to pay the outstanding 
money to AXA alongside the regular December payment. However, the December payment 
wasnt made to AXA. 
AXA then agreed that the outstanding money could be paid with the January 2020 monthly 
payment. However, only part of this payment was made by Mrs H. AXA told Mrs H again that 
it would only pay for any claims if the payments for the policy were up to date and, as things 
stood, the policy had only been paid for up until December 2019. Mrs H agreed to pay the 
outstanding balance with the February 2020 monthly payment. 
In anticipation of the February 2020 payment being made, AXA paid medical providers for 
treatment Mrs H received in January 2020. However, neither the February 2020 nor the 
March 2020 payments for the policy were made by Mrs H. 
In April 2020, Mrs H cancelled the direct debit for the policy. After speaking to Mrs H, AXA 
then cancelled the policy with effect from 21 December 2019, which was the date up to 
which the policy had been paid for. 
In May 2020, AXA uploaded a benefit statement to Mrs Hs online account which said Mrs H 
wasnt covered under the policy at the time of her treatment in January 2020 and that shed 
need to contact the medical providers directly to arrange to pay for her treatment. 
Mrs H contacted AXA in July 2020 to complain, as shed been told by the medical providers 
that shed need to settle the invoices herself. Mrs H said it wasnt fair for AXA to reclaim 
money it had previously agreed to pay, and she hadnt been told this was happening. Mrs H 
also said she had a direct debit in place and AXA had authorised her treatment, so it should 
be covered under her policy. 
AXA said it had explained to Mrs H that no claims would be covered until the outstanding 
balance for the policy had been paid, but it had settled the medical bills in anticipation of the 
balance being cleared in February 2020 as agreed with Mrs H. AXA said it was owed 
payments for the policy from 21 December 2019 so, when the direct debit was cancelled, 
policy coverage was backdated to end on this date. AXA said if Mrs H wanted to discuss the 
option of paying the outstanding premiums so it could cover the claim, she could let it know. 
Unhappy, Mrs H brought her complaint to the attention of our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened but said she didnt think AXA had acted 
unfairly. Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Hs policy say a claim for treatment which takes place after 
a payment is missed wont be covered. 
AXA giving authorisation for treatment didnt guarantee a claim for that treatment would be 
covered. Mrs H having a direct debit in place also didnt mean AXA was obliged to cover her 
claim. Mrs H needed to make the agreed monthly payments to AXA for her insurance policy 
in order for cover to be in place. 
This isnt unfair and its how most, if not all, private medical insurance policies work.
Mrs H only paid for her policy up until 21 December 2019. Her treatment took place after 
this, in January 2020. So, the treatment took place after payments were missed. This means 
I dont think Mrs Hs claim for the cost of her treatment is covered under the terms and 
conditions of her policy. 
Based on the information Ive seen, AXA clearly told Mrs H on several occasions that no 
claims would be paid while payments for the policy were in arrears. AXA told Mrs H this 
before she went ahead and had the treatment. It was Mrs Hs decision to have the treatment 
knowing her policy was in arrears. 
AXA paid Mrs Hs medical providers based on confirmation from Mrs H that the policy 
payments would be brought up to date in February 2020. In the circumstances, it might have 
been more sensible for AXA to wait until the payment due date in February 2020 had passed 
before deciding whether to pay the medical providers bills. However, I dont think AXAs 
actions made any difference to Mrs Hs situation. Her claim wasnt covered by her policy and 
shed have been in the same position of owing money to the medical providers regardless of 
whether AXA had paid the money and then reclaimed it or not. 
Mrs H didnt comply with her obligations under her policy when she failed to keep her 
payments up to date. Under the terms and conditions of the policy, AXA was therefore 
entitled to recover its losses (i.e. the claim payments made to the medical providers, which 
AXA wasnt obliged to pay because Mrs H had missed payments). 
AXA sent Mrs H an online notice in May 2020 saying she needed to contact the medical 
providers directly about money owed to them. It was Mrs Hs responsibility to read any email 
notifications sent to her about her policy regardless of whether the policy was still active. Mrs 
H says AXA should have sent her this notification by post, but Ive seen no evidence that she asked to be communicated with in this manner. Even if AXA had communicated this by post, 
I dont think it would have made any difference to Mrs Hs situation as AXA had already 
reclaimed the money paid, which I think it was entitled to do. 
AXA reclaimed the money from the medical providers after Mrs H cancelled the policy in 
April 2020. Up until that point, AXA seemed willing to allow Mrs H to make up the payments 
owed in subsequent months. So, I dont think there was any unreasonable delay by AXA in 
taking action to reclaim the money it had paid. 
Mrs H said she cancelled the policy because AXA couldnt provide her with a renewal quote. 
AXAs notes suggest Mrs H only asked for a renewal quote after the direct debit for the 
policy had already been cancelled. But I dont think AXA was obliged to provide Mrs H with a 
renewal quote anyway, as shed missed payments for her existing policy. 
In AXAs response to Mrs Hs complaint, it said it was still prepared to discuss the option of 
Mrs H paying the outstanding premiums so it could cover the claim. I think this was a 
reasonable position for AXA to take.  
Im sorry to hear about the situation Mrs H is in and Im sorry to disappoint her, but I dont 
think AXA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances and I wont be asking it to 
do anything more.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman