DRN-3762526
The complaint
Mrs L complains that TSB Bank plc removed a promotional interest rate on her credit card
account and applied a late payment fee.
What happened
Mrs L had a direct debit in place to pay a fixed sum per month to her credit card account with
TSB. Her June 2021 credit card statement said the payment would be claimed from her bank
account on 28 June 2021.
On 16 June Mrs L called TSB to amend the fixed payment amount to the minimum payment
required as she had been impacted financially due to the pandemic. TSB made the
amendment to the direct debit. But as Junes direct debit payment was already in the
system, TSB told Mrs L to contact her bank to recall the payment due on 28 June and make
a manual payment for the minimum amount. Mrs L did this. And her next statement includes
the payment she made manually.
However, the direct debit due on 26 July 2021 wasnt claimed by TSB. This resulted in Mrs L
incurring a late payment fee and her promotional interest rate being removed. So, she
complained to TSB.
TSB looked into Mrs Ls complaint. But it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that
it had received notification from Mrs Ls bank that the direct debit had been cancelled by
Mrs L.
Unhappy with the response Mrs L referred her complaint to this service. One of investigators
looked into it but she didnt think TSB had treated Mrs L unfairly. She noted that the terms of
a promotional interest rate make provision for the rate to be withdrawn when a payment is
missed.
Mrs L didnt accept this outcome, so the complaint has been passed to me and I issued a 
provisional decision.
What I said in my provisional decision dated 30 September 2022
Having listened to the call recording from 16 June 2021, Im satisfied Mrs L made TSB
aware that her intention was simply to make an adjustment to her direct debit  so the
minimum payment was collected, not to cancel it.
During the discussion, I note that TSB  due to the timings of her call and the date the direct
debit was due, told Mrs L to contact her bank and ask it to recall the direct debit and make a
manual payment to cover the minimum payment due.
I also note that at the end of the call Mrs L asked for confirmation that her minimum monthly
payments would be collected by direct debit thereafter. TSB confirmed this. So, Im
persuaded that Mrs L would have ended the call with the understanding that she had to
make one manual payment and the following payments would continue via direct debit.
Mrs L followed TSBs instructions. She made a manual payment and contacted her bank.
I dont know exactly what was said when Mrs L contacted her bank. I accept its possible
Mrs L may not have understood what TSB had asked her to do, or she may not have
made it clear to her bank that it was only Junes direct debit payment she wanted recalled or
her bank misunderstood her instructions. But given all the above, I have no doubt it wasnt
Mrs L intention to miss her credit card payment. And this is further supported by the fact that
when the problem came to light, she made the payment due.
My role here is to decide if TSB has treated Mrs L fairly  given all the circumstances. And
taking all the above into consideration, Im not persuaded that it did. I find the fair and
reasonable action would have been for TSB  when considering Mrs L s complaint, to have:
recognised this matter had arisen from an unfortunate set of circumstances; considered
Mrs Ls intentions: recognised that Mrs L made a payment when the problem came to light;
and, in these specific circumstances, agreed to retain the promotional interest rate on her
account. I note the late payment fee has already been refunded and I think this is fair.
Mrs L has told us that the reason she wanted to reduce her payment to the minimum amount
was because she had been impacted financially due to the pandemic and ill health. So, Im
persuaded that removing the promotional rate would have had a substantial impact on her. I
say this because Mrs Ls statements show that the minimum payment required increased
significantly after the promotional rate was removed. So, I find a compensation payment is
due for the distress and inconvenience this matter caused Mrs L.
And I said I had provisionally decided  subject to further comments, that TSB should put 
Mrs Ls account back in the position it would have been in had the promotional rate not been
removed. This includes:
o Re-applying the promotional interest rate for the remainder of the promotional
term if the term hasnt already ended.
o Refunding the interest Mrs L has paid each month, which she wouldnt have paid
had the promotion remained in place, plus simple interest at 8%* a year on each
amount from the date it was paid until the date it is refunded.
oArranging for any late payment markers recorded on Mrs Ls credit file as a result
of this situation to be removed.
In addition, TSB should pay Mrs L £100 to recognise the distress and inconvenience this
matter has caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
TSB didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, it said that whatever had happened 
with Mrs Ls direct debit, she had a responsibility to make a monthly payment, and this didnt 
happen. So, it didnt see any clear reason why it shouldnt rely on the terms and conditions 
of the promotional interest rate.
Mrs L didnt accept my provisional decisions in its entirety. While she acknowledged it went 
some way to put things right, she didnt think it went far enough. She said that the late 
payment marker TSB applied to her credit file has stopped her refinancing her TSB credit 
card balance and applying for other promotional interest rates for her other credit card 
borrowing. So, as a result, she has lost out financially.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive only summarised Mrs Ls and TSBs responses to my provisional 
decision. And Im not going to respond to every single point made by them. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point to be able to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Having considered everything again, including the most recent comments, Ive reached the 
same overall conclusion as set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Mrs L has said the late payment marker on her credit file has had an adverse impact on her. 
And I acknowledge that a late payment marker does have impact on a persons credit file 
score. But Im not persuaded that one late payment marker - on its own, would impact      
Mrs L to the extent she says it has.  
Even if Mrs L had an unblemished credit file report  apart from this one incident, there are 
so many other factors that lenders take into consideration  for example, income (and Mrs L 
has already told us her income was impacted by the pandemic), expenditure, overall 
indebtedness, repayment histories and their own lending criteria and appetite to risk. So, 
even if Mrs L has had lending declined (preventing her from benefitting from lower rates of 
interest), Im not persuaded that I could safely say the sole reason for this was the late 
payment marker TSB recorded on her credit file. So, Im not persuaded that TSB is required 
to compensate Mrs L for not being able to refinance her borrowing.
Mrs L has also said the £100 compensation which I considered to be fair wasnt enough. Ill 
refer to this further down in my decision.
Turning to TSBs points. I acknowledge that the terms of a promotional interest rate say it 
can be withdrawn when a payment is missed. And that TSB had no reason to ignore Mrs Ls 
banks cancellation request. But in my provisional decision I explained that while Ive taken 
the terms into account, my role is to decide if TSB has treated Mrs L fairly given all the 
circumstances surrounding what happened. 
And, in this case, Im not persuaded Mrs L intended to miss her monthly payment. As 
mentioned in my provisional decision, I find the fair and reasonable action would have been 
for TSB  when considering Mrs L s complaint, to have: recognised this matter had arisen 
from an unfortunate set of circumstances; considered Mrs Ls intentions; recognise that    
Mrs L made a payment when the problem came to light; and, in these specific 
circumstances, agreed to retain the promotional interest rate on her account. And as It did 
not do so, I find TSB hasnt treated Mrs L fairly.   
TSB has said Mrs L didnt need to wait until she received her credit card statement to find 
out there was a problem. It says she could have checked her bank statement and acted 
sooner. But, as I said in the provisional decision, at the end of call between Mrs L and TSB, 
Mrs L asks for confirmation that  after making a manual payment for one month, her 
minimum monthly payments would then be collected by direct debit. And TSB confirmed that 
they would. As Mrs L ended the call with the expectation that her subsequent payments 
would continue via direct debit, Im not persuaded she had any reason to check her bank 
statements in this respect.TSB has suggested I obtain the call recording between Mrs L and her bank to determine 
what she instructed it to do. But I dont think thats required here. Notwithstanding what was 
said during that call, Im persuaded  given Mrs Ls testimony and the action she took to 
make the missed payment as soon as it came to light, that her intention wasnt to miss her 
monthly payment. And as mentioned above, I find that TSB should have taken that into 
account when Mrs L first contacted it about the missed payment.
TSB has said that it doesnt seem equitable for Mrs L to have her promotional interest rate 
reinstated when other customers who miss a payment would have theirs removed. And I 
accept there are circumstances where it is appropriate for a promotional interest rate to be 
withdrawn. But Ive looked at this case on its own individual merits and, in this case (as 
mentioned above), I think TSB  when Mrs L raised her concerns, should have reinstated 
the promotional rate on her account. And it should now rework Mrs Ls account to put her 
back in the position she would have been in had the promotional rate been reinstated. 
Both parties have commented on my suggested award of £100 compensation. Mrs L thinks 
its not enough, while TSB says compensation isnt due as there wasnt a bank error. 
I acknowledge that TSB didnt initially make a mistake here. The terms and conditions say 
that a promotional rate can be removed when a payment is missed. So, when Mrs L missed 
a payment, the promotional rate was most likely removed automatically. But its at the point 
Mrs L contacted TSB about the situation where Im satisfied TSB didnt treat Mrs L fairly. And 
because of this Im satisfied compensation is due in addition to the other redress Ive 
mentioned. 
Mrs L doesnt think £100 fully reflects the impact of TSB not reinstating her promotional rate 
had on her. But as mentioned above, I cant safely say that the late payment marker was the 
sole reason Mrs L was unable to refinance her borrowing. However, because of the 
promotional interest not being reinstated, Mrs L has had to pay more each month than she 
needed to. And given Mrs L has said she was moving to minimum payments as her finances 
had been impacted by the pandemic, Im satisfied Mrs L was impacted to extent that a 
compensation payment is due. But from what I seen Mrs L has been able to meet the 
monthly payment despite the interest rate charged. So, given these circumstances, Im 
satisfied that a compensation payment of £100 is fair.  
TSB has also said that Mrs L hasnt been deprived of her money so the 8% interest payment 
I recommended isnt due. But Mrs Ls minimum payment was percentage of her outstanding 
balance plus interest. And as her promotional rate was withdrawn, she has paid more 
interest than she would have had the promotional rate been reinstated. Had she not paid the 
extra interest, that extra money would have been available for her to use - for example, pay 
down the other debts she has mentioned. So, I remain of the opinion she was deprived of 
that money and therefore compensatory interest is appropriate. 
   
Putting things right
TSB Bank plc should now put Mrs Ls account back in the position it would have been in had 
the promotional rate been re-instated. This includes:
Re-working the account for the period the promotional interest rate would have run 
for had it been reinstated. 
Refunding the interest Mrs L has paid each month, which she wouldnt have paid had 
the promotional rate remained in place, plus simple interest at 8%* a year on each 
amount from the date it was paid until the date it is refunded.Arranging for the late payment marker recorded on Mrs Ls credit file as a result of 
this situation to be removed.
paying Mrs L £100 to recognise the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
TSB Bank plc should now settle the matter as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman