DRN-3490842
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Creation Financial Services Limited mishandled her claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) for a faulty sofa.
What happened
In March 2020 Mrs C purchased a sofa and two armchairs from a retailer which cost £1,400. 
Mrs C also took out a five-year warranty to cover the furniture for any structural or accidental 
damage. She paid for the items using a credit card she held with Creation. Mrs C says that 
the furniture was to be delivered but due to covid and the store having to close Mrs C made 
her own arrangements to collect.
Mrs C says that the sofa required some assembling and when this had been done, she saw 
that the sofas seat cushions, and its back werent in alignment. She took some photos of the 
sofa.
As the store wasnt open again until July 2020 Mrs C didnt immediately raise the problem 
about the sofa with the retailer. She visited the store when it had re-opened and showed the 
staff the photos shed taken of the issues with the sofa. The manager asked her to send the 
photos via email which she did, and the store arranged for the sofa to be inspected.
A technician attended Mrs Cs home and inspected the sofa in September 2020. The 
technician said there wasnt an inherent fault with the sofa and that the issue with the seating 
not being in alignment was due to wear and tear and natural settlement. They said the 
middle seat hadnt been used as much as the other two and this had meant the central 
cushion now sat proud. The technician offered, as a gesture of good will, to add extra 
padding to the seat. Mrs C says this didnt rectify the fault.
Mrs C went back to the store, but they said as there was no fault with the sofa, they couldnt 
assist her further. Unhappy with the stores response Mrs C raised a claim under section 75 
with Creation.
Creation declined Mrs Cs claim as it said looking at the inspection report obtained by the 
store there was no evidence of a fault with the sofa. Creation informed Mrs C of her rights to 
make a complaint to this service.
Mrs C also decided to make a claim under the warranty for structural damage to the sofa. 
The warranty company arranged for the sofa to be inspected in February 2022 and, following 
this, it accepted Mrs Cs claim. The warranty company arranged for repairs to be carried out 
to the sofa but unfortunately, the repairs werent then possible. As an alternative solution, the 
warranty company offered Mrs C £200 as a discount off the cost of the sofa or a £1,399 
credit note to be used in the store to order items over the next eight weeks.
Mrs C declined the alternative offers from the warranty company as she said she was 
informed by the store that it didnt have any stock she could order within this price range and 
they no longer stocked this particular range of sofas. She says she thought the £200 
payment was insufficient.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs C complaint about Creations handling of her 
section 75 claim should be upheld. He said there was limited information to consider 
because Creation hadnt provided its file for Mrs Cs section 75 claim. This meant he hadnt 
seen the inspection report prepared by the store, however, on the evidence that was 
available, he thought it was more likely than not that the sofa hadnt been of satisfactory 
quality at its point of supply to Mrs C.
Our investigator said that Mrs C had been concerned about the padding in the sofa seats 
soon after shed acquired it, and she had taken photos of its condition at the time. He said he 
noted the warranty company had also found there was a structural fault with the sofa which 
was linked to the padding and so it appeared likely this was the same issue as found by Mrs 
C in March 2020.
Although the two chairs that had been purchased by Mrs C at the same time as the sofa 
were fault free, they were bought as part of a set with the sofa. In light of that, our 
investigator said it would be fair here, as repairs to the sofa werent possible, for Creation to 
reimburse Mrs C the full amount of £1,400. He said it should also arrange the collection of 
the furniture from Mrs C. 
Mrs C agreed with our investigators view, but Creation didnt respond. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me as the parties hadnt reached an agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Creation has acted fairly and reasonably in its 
response to Mrs Cs claim under section 75. However, Creation hasnt provided its 
file, so Ive considered the evidence that has been sent in by Mrs C when reaching 
my decision. Where evidence has been missing then I have decided what I think it the 
most likely thing to have happened.
Mrs C no longer holds the credit card she used to purchase the sofa and armchairs and 
because the account is closed, she hasnt been able to access the statements. However, 
although I havent seen corroborating proof Mrs C used her credit card to purchase the 
items, Ive seen that Creation has accepted it was used because it considered her section 75 
claim. Mrs C also says her practice was to clear the balance on the card each month and 
this was the same after shed bought the furniture.
Ive seen that Mrs C attempted to sort the issue out with the retailer first, and that this was 
delayed because the store was closed for some months due to the pandemic. However, Mrs 
C took photos of the sofa a short time after it had been collected and assembled. Looking at 
these, I think they clearly show that the seats of the sofa were uneven and misaligned.
Ive also seen that Mrs C disagrees with the conclusion reached by the technician who 
inspected the sofa at the request of the store. Although I havent seen this report, I am aware 
that the technician said that the issue with the sofas seating being in misalignment was due 
to wear and tear and the seating settling. The store then said it was unable to assist Mrs C 
further with the issues with the sofa.
Mrs C then raised her section 75 claim with Creation and also made a claim under the sofas 
warranty on the grounds that it had a structural fault.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 may apply when the goods purchased via a credit agreement cost over £100 and up to a limit of £30,000. The general effect of 
the section is that if a consumer has paid for goods or services with a credit agreement 
and they have a claim against the supplier of those goods or services for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract, they are given a like claim against the credit 
provider, which here is Creation.
Creation said that in light of the conclusion of the inspection report there was no 
evidence the sofa had a fault and there hadnt been a breach of contract. I dont know if 
when reaching this decision, Creation had considered the photos that Mrs C had also 
taken shortly after collecting and assembling the sofa. 
Although I havent had the benefit of reading the inspection report, Im not persuaded 
that the conclusion it reached is fair. This is because it doesnt appear likely that the 
technician provided an explanation as to why the sofa had the fault with the misaligned 
seating from its point of assembly in March 2020. There isnt a suggestion for instance 
that the sofa had been put together incorrectly by Mrs C or her husband. So, Im 
unclear why the technician decided it was due to wear and tear and settling other than 
this was based on the time that had passed between Mrs C acquiring the sofa and their 
visit to inspect it.
Ive also seen that Mrs C made a claim under the sofas five-year warranty which led to 
a further inspection of the sofa. This claim was made many months after her complaint 
to the store and the second inspection took place in February 2022 which was nearly 
18 months later. The warranty company accepted Mrs C s claim for a structural issue 
and this was in respect of the padding on the seats of the sofa. The warranty 
companys inspection found that there was a fault with the padding, and this appears to 
be the same issue raised by Mrs C with the store back in July 2020 and which she had 
found in March 2020. I think there is sufficient evidence to find that theres an inherent 
fault with the sofa and that it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. I think 
there was a breach of contract.
So, I think in light of the evidence that Ive seen, Creation didnt handle Mrs Cs section 
75 claim fairly. It appears to have relied only on the stores inspection report and hasnt 
considered the contradictory evidence provided by Mrs C which was supported by 
photos. I think it should have done more when looking at her claim and, if it had, that 
its likely it would have considered there had been a breach of contract as to the 
condition of the sofa.
As the sofa wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply then under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 there would have been a right of repair. However, as found 
by the warranty company, repair wasnt possible and so I think it would be fair for Mrs 
C to now be able to reject the sofa and be reimbursed its cost.
Although Mrs Cs section 75 claim was in respect of the sofa only, I understand she 
had bought it as part of a set with matching armchairs. As the sofa cant be repaired 
and any replacement would be unlikely now to be an exact match to the armchairs due 
to the passage of time, then I think a settlement should take into account the furniture 
set and not just the sofa. The armchairs arent what Mrs C would want if they dont 
match a new sofa. She had wanted and purchased a matching set.
For the reasons given, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint and think it would be fair for 
Mrs C to now be reimbursed the full cost of the sofa and armchairs by Creation.Putting things right
Im asking Creation to reimburse Mrs C the total cost of the furniture which amounts to 
£1,400 together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mrs Cs complaint and Im asking Creation 
Financial Services Limited to reimburse Mrs C the total cost of the furniture which amounts 
to £1,400 together with yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 01 August 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman