DRN-4211913
The complaint
Mr S complains about TTT Moneycorp Ltd trading as Moneycorps performance of a contract 
he had with it to buy euros.
What happened
On 17 January 2023 Mr S entered into a contract with Moneycorp to buy a large sum in 
euros and then transfer it, at an agreed exchange rate. However he was informed that, 
because of the fluctuations in the exchange rate, Moneycorps bank was only able to fulfil 
half of the contract. After Mr S contacted Moneycorp to raise a complaint about it Moneycorp 
agreed to fulfil the balance of the contract manually at its own cost. The full exchange was 
completed on 18 January and the funds were promptly transferred to the required 
beneficiary.
Mr S was unhappy with Moneycorps explanation about the exchange rate, pointing out that 
the rates shown by one of its competitors showed a rate trading above that agreed in the 
contract for at least two hours on the relevant day.
Mr S entered into correspondence with Moneycorp about his complaint, in particular he 
didn't feel that Moneycorp had understood his complaint and that it had not provided 
satisfactory explanations.
Moneycorp offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused but explained that in 
carrying out the transfer it was in the hands of its bank. It recognised that it was unusual for 
only half of an exchange to take place.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that he thought that 
Moneycorp had dealt with the issue of the full exchange not taking place appropriately and 
had made a fair and reasonable offer in resolution of the complaint. He pointed out that 
Mr S's complaints about the way his complaint was handled did not come under our 
jurisdiction to deal with. 
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that the original exchange rate set out in the contract with Mr S was €1.135 to 
the £ and that the net rate at which the exchange was completed was €1.393 ie a better rate. 
I understand that Mr S does not believe that Moneycorp has provided adequate evidence to 
show why only half of the exchange was completed. I don't think that the rates of the 
competitor that Mr S has supplied are relevant, as Moneycorp was in the hands of its bank to 
complete the exchange. And published market rates don't take any account of a businesss 
markdown in carrying out a transaction.
Moneycorps solution to the problem was to complete the exchange manually without any 
loss to Mr S and at a better rate. Mr S has advised that he was in the process of purchasing 
a property, but as Moneycorp was able to complete the exchange in a reasonable time 
I dont think this had any knock-on effect. I can't award compensation for what might have 
happened.
I think that Moneycorp acted fairly and reasonably to resolve Mr S's complaint. As well as 
completing the exchange, it offered to pay £100 compensation, which I think was fair and 
reasonable. I understand that Mr S wants this to be paid to the charity of his choice. I will 
formally record in this decision that offer and, if he accepts my decision, Mr S can negotiate 
with Moneycorp concerning where he wants the money to be paid.
Mr S wants to pursue his complaint because he still has serious reservations about the way 
that Moneycorp dealt with his complaint and its failure to answer his queries in full. 
Moneycorp is regulated by the FCA (Financial Conduct Authority) for the provision of 
financial services. The financial service provided here was the money exchange which took 
place and I'm satisfied that Moneycorp provided a reasonable resolution to the complaint 
about this. Complaint handling in itself is not a regulated activity so does not come under our 
jurisdiction to deal with unless it is part of the resolution of the initial financial service.
I understand that Mr S wants further answers to his queries and is dissatisfied with what he 
feels is Moneycorps attitude towards his complaint. He says that he is concerned that 
Moneycorp has shown no interest nor effort to address serious gaps in its business 
model/operations that would avoid repeating such errors.
I'm satisfied that Moneycorps dealing with Mr Ss complaint took place after his complaint 
about his financial service had been resolved so its complaint handling isnt within our 
jurisdiction to deal with.
My final decision
Moneycorp has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that TTT Moneycorp Ltd trading as Moneycorp should pay £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman