DRN-4094811
The complaint
Mr K complained about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line Car Insurance 
(UKI) increased his premium on his motor insurance policy when he changed his car on the 
policy
What happened
About nine months after he took out his policy, Mr K wanted to change the car on it. This is
called a mid-term adjustment. He asked UKI about it online and they quoted him a new
premium of £150 a month. That was much more than the £60 a month he was paying, but he
accepted that quote as he needed cover on his new car.
But Mr K then checked UKIs website as if he was a new customer with the same details and
obtained cheaper quotes of around £75 a month. He didnt think it was fair for UKI to charge
him more than they would have charged a new customer. He complained about this and was
unhappy that UKI took too long to reply to his complaint, and he had to keep chasing them
about it. However we dont investigate the manner of complaint handling itself.
UKI said as follows. Theyd calculated his new premium correctly. They werent obliged to
offer Mr K the same terms as they would to a new customer, because Mr K wasnt just
renewing his policy on the same basis. Instead he was changing the basis of the contract,
during the agreed term of the policy, by changing the car on it. This affected their
assessment of risk, but they couldnt explain to him exactly why in detail as it was
commercially sensitive information.
However UKI gave him the option of cancelling the existing policy and taking out the new
policy at the lower quote. Mr K didnt want to do that as hed have to pay the existing policys
cancellation fees and would lose the almost one year no claims discount (NCD) hed built up
with the business. He wanted them to honour the cheaper quote but without requiring him to
pay cancellation fees or lose his NCD. He later let the policy lapse and wanted UKI to refund
the extra he felt theyd made him pay unfairly.
The investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that UKI had
acted unfairly and that UKI should refund the difference between the premium that Mr K paid 
for the last few months of the policy and the lower premium quoted for a new policy.
UKI didnt agree and so I was asked to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 24 March 
2023. I didnt uphold the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said as follows:
As the investigator has explained, pricing is a commercially sensitive area, and so we
generally wont intervene in complaints about the price of insurance.
Insurers can choose what information to consider when setting the price of a policy (the
premium) and that price is based on the risk they want to take. The factors an insurer
considers in doing so, and the weight they place on those factors, is the insurers choice,
and its not our role to question those. And because thats commercially sensitive
information, we cant require insurers to disclose it. There are pricing regulation rules which
apply at renewal, but they dont apply at mid-term adjustments, although insurers must still
treat customers fairly then.
UKI said that their calculation of his premium for the new car was correct. They explained
that to calculate it they made a comprehensive risk assessment, which considered a number
of factors including the perceived risk offered by the policyholder and their circumstances 
and this was normal practice in the insurance industry.
They used a number of rating factors to determine the risk to them, such as the age of the
vehicle, its size and power, the drivers age, and claims affecting the make and model of the
vehicle amongst others. They couldnt share with Mr K the exact calculations for the
premium as they remained business sensitive.
They also explained that when Mr K contacted them to change his car on the policy, they
were using one system for risk rating changes to existing policies and a different system at
the same time for risk rating new quotes, and that this was a business necessity and usual in
the industry.
The investigator thought it wasnt acceptable that Mr K should lose out financially because of
the business system transition period, and they shouldnt have two different systems to rate
the same risk. But I dont think thats what UKI meant. They were not taking advantage of a
system transition period to charge Mr K more than other existing customers. They were
commercially entitled to use different rating processes for changes to existing policies, and
for new policies, and theyve shown us their underwriting criteria showing what factors they
considered in assessing new risk for existing customers who wanted to change the terms of
their policy.
So theyve shown us that they treated Mr K fairly, in line with their underwriting criteria, the
same as they would have done any other existing customer changing his policy in the same
circumstances. They also gave Mr K the option to cancel his old policy and take out a new
one on the new terms, and I think that was reasonable.
I can see that Mr K feels he has been treated unfairly, but Ive not been shown anything to
persuade me of that. This means that I dont intend to ask UKI to do anything else.
UKI havent said anything else in response to my provisional decision, but Mr K disagreed 
with it.   
He thought that there was no logical reason for both premium quotes to be so different in 
price, because both were on the same data re age, claims history, address etc. And so he 
still felt that he was being penalised for being an existing customer. He was unhappy that 
UKI hadnt moved him onto their new quote system to pay the lower premium, as he knew 
that was possible. He felt that consumers should be given the choice of system to calculate 
their premium. He was still unhappy about the cancellation fee and NCD issue and felt that 
UKI should have done more to help him. But by offering him the option of taking out the 
policy on the new terms UKI did essentially give him the choice of what policy pricing  
system he wanted to use, and so I think that was fair of them. But Mr K wanted that and for 
them to waive the cancellation fee and maintain his NCD too.  He didnt feel that UKI were treating him the same as other consumers in the same situation 
because someone on the new pricing system who then wanted to change would have a 
lower new premium than him due to the lower premium starting point. But I dont think thats 
the right comparison, which is with someone with an existing policy who wanted to change 
the risk criteria.
In short, as I explained above, insurers are not required on mid-term adjustments to use the 
same pricing processes for changes to existing policies as they would for new policies. UKI 
have shown us their underwriting criteria for assessing new risk for existing customers who 
want to make a mid-term change, and I think those do support their premium decision in this 
case. As Ive explained, thats a commercial decision for UKI, and so not one in which we 
would intervene. I realise it will be disappointing to Mr K, but I dont require UKI to do 
anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
