DRN-1696207
 
Complaint          
Mr K and Ms N complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
Background
Mr K and Ms N were sold PPI in connection with a mortgage in 1996. The policy would have 
provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr K and/or Ms N were off work 
sick or lost their job. 
In 2002 Mr K and Ms N took out a further advance on their mortgage. The policy was 
amended to reflect the additional advance. And only Mr K was covered under the policy. In 
2004 Mr K and Ms N then took out a (further) further advance and once again the PPI cover 
was amended to reflect the further borrowing.  Its unclear whether both Mr K and Ms N were 
covered at this stage (or if it was again just Mr K alone) and if so what the benefit split was 
between them. But again the policy would have provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 
months in the event of sickness and unemployment. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr K and Ms N 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr K and Ms Ns case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr K and Ms Ns complaint. I appreciate Mr K 
and Ms N will be disappointed by this outcome but I will now explain why Ive reached this 
decision.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr K and Ms N were eligible for the policies. Im satisfied 
they were eligible based on their age and circumstances at the time of the sales.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr K and Ms N that the policies were optional and needed 
their consent before the policies could be applied to the account. Mr K and Ms N say that 
they didnt agree to take PPI and they werent made aware it was optional. However, I note 
that Mr K and Ms N have provided some inconsistent statements. For example on the one 
hand they say they were led to believe they had to take PPI in order to get the mortgage but 
on the other hand theyve also said it was added without their knowledge. This is of course 
understandable given the length of time since the sales but what it does mean is that I am 
unable to rely on their recollection of events.I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr K and Ms N and Lloyds, so Ive thought 
about everything Lloyds and Mr K and Ms N have told us and where available I have looked 
to the documents from the time of the sales in order to help me decide what is more likely to 
have happened. 
Lloyds no longer have a copy of the PPI application form relating to the 1996 sale. But this is 
understandable given that the sale took place such a long time ago. So I cant hold it against 
them that they arent now able to show us how PPI was presented during this sale. But I 
have seen documents from the 2002 and 2004 sales. I note Mr K and Ms N were provided 
with equally clear options in their mortgage application form in 2002 regarding whether to 
take PPI or not and I can see that the box to take PPI was ticked. Both Mr K and Ms N 
signed this form. Further they completed a separate PPI application form where they chose 
Mr K to receive 100% of the policy benefit. Again Mr K and Ms N signed this form. In relation 
to the PPI sold in 2004, Ive seen a separate PPI application form signed by Mr K and Ms N. 
There is nothing on this form which would indicate that PPI was compulsory.
So based on the evidence available to me, I think its more likely that on each of occasions, 
the PPI was presented as optional and that it was only applied to the account because Mr K 
and Ms N chose to take it out.
Lloyds accept they advised Mr K and Ms N to take out the PPI. This means they had to take 
adequate steps to ensure it was suitable for them. I dont know whether they took all the 
steps as they should have but based on what Ive seen of Mr K and Ms Ns circumstances at 
the time, I think it was suitable for them.  I say this because:
 
Mr K and Ms N dont appear to have been affected by the more restrictive 
terms/exclusions in the policy. For example, terms relating to certain medical 
conditions and unusual employment terms. So it appears that they could have relied 
on all the cover under the policy. 
 
Mr K says he would have received six months full pay followed by six months half 
pay from his employer if he was unable to work. So Mr K and Ms N are likely to have 
felt a drop in income when Mr Ks income reduced to half. In respect of Ms N, she 
has told us that she wouldnt have been entitled to sick pay other than one weeks 
self certification. The PPI - including her as a beneficiary in 1996 and also if she was 
a beneficiary in 2004 - would have paid out for a much longer period of time than her 
self-certification period. So PPI would have enabled Mr K and Ms N to meet an 
important financial commitment had they needed to rely on it.
 
The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr K and Ms Ns employer benefits. So 
they could use their employer benefits for other expenses at what is likely to have 
been a difficult time financially, especially given they had no other means of 
repayment such as savings and other insurance policies.
 
The PPI appears to have been affordable to Mr K and Ms N at the time of the sales 
and Mr K and Ms N could have cancelled it any time without losing out financially. 
 
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Mr K and Ms N, Lloyds also had to give 
them clear enough information so that they could make an informed decision as to whether or not to take it out, in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions under the 
policy.
It's possible Lloyds didnt give Mr K and Ms N all of the information as they should have. But 
this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put them off taking it out. 
And I dont think better information would have put them off taking the PPI out. I say this for 
the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for them. 
Ive also considered the lack of clarity around if and how the benefit was split between the 
parties in 1996 and 2004. However, I dont think Mr K and Ms N have lost out because of 
this given that they hadnt made any claims and the cost of the policies is likely to have 
remained the same regardless of who was covered under the policy.
So I dont think Lloyds mis-sold PPI to Mr K and Ms N. This means Lloyds dont have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K and Ms N.
But Lloyds have paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K and Ms N because: 
 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so they should have told Mr K and Ms N about that. Because Lloyds 
didnt tell Mr K and Ms N, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Lloyds have paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC do not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr K and Ms N.
But Lloyds Bank PLC do have to pay back to Mr K and Ms N any commission and profit 
share they got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand they have already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman