DRN-4365619
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with the amount of compensation HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has 
offered to settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out alongside her mortgage.
What happened
Mrs T said she took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1991, and that the policy continued 
until 1996. She made a complaint about it to HSBC some time ago, but it said it couldnt find 
any policy records. HSBC then contacted Mrs T in August 2021 to say that it had not 
provided her with the correct information, and it offered her additional time to complain. 
HSBC subsequently upheld Mrs Ts complaint that shed been mis-sold the policy, but 
couldnt find any evidence to confirm that the policy was taken out before 1996. It offered her 
£119.98, plus an additional £50 in recognition of the inconvenience, to compensate her for 
this mis-sale.
HSBC said the compensation aimed to put Mrs T back in the position she would have been 
in had she not taken the PPI. Mrs T wasnt satisfied that HSBC had taken account of all of 
the premiums shed paid.
Our adjudicator looked into this, and said she thought what HSBC had offered Mrs T was 
fair. But Mrs T still wasnt satisfied and so the case was passed to me for review. 
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023, in which I explained why I thought that 
HSBC should increase its compensation in line with notes provided by Mrs T. Mrs T said she 
agreed with my conclusions. HSBC did not agree, and I have set out their response in more 
detail below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As HSBC has upheld Mrs Ts complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, I am not looking at the 
sale of the PPI in this decision. I am only considering if HSBCs offer of compensation for the 
mis-sold PPI is fair.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why. 
I set out my reasoning in my provisional decision as follows:
Looking at HSBCs final response letter and compensation calculation, I note that it says it 
has calculated premiums for the period 15 May 1996 to 31 May 1996  a period of two 
weeks. I also note that underneath the redress calculation, it says Please note that the start 
date of the policy provided by (the insurer) might not be correct. Should this be the 
case, please provide either a copy of the policy schedule or bank statements showing the 
date of the first premium paid and we will be happy to review this case 
I should say here that the policy was a joint one, and Mrs Ts complaint is about her share of 
compensation  that is 50% of the premiums paid, plus interest and less tax. This would put 
her in the position she wouldve been in had the policy not been mis-sold, as compensation 
is designed to do. Mrs T was certain that the policy commenced on 4 October 1991 and 
ended on 4 October 1996, based on handwritten records that she had found.
HSBC then forwarded a screenshot of information from the insurer. This shows that the 
monthly PPI premium in 1996 was £17.40, and that five premiums were paid, cover ending 
in November 1996. That end date is broadly consistent with Mrs Ts records.
Mrs T then provided extracts of her handwritten records of her bank account and credit cards 
 effectively her ledger. She said she had found that premiums totalling £937.98 were paid.
We forwarded these extracts to HSBC, but it refused to accept handwritten records as 
evidence of premiums paid. However, it said it would reconsider matters if Mrs T could find 
statements or other documents as evidence.
Mrs T has now sent in a full copy of her bank account ledger from 1991 to 1996. I accept 
that neither she nor HSBC has documentary evidence such as a policy document or bank 
statements. But having carefully examined the ledger  which runs to some 40 pages - I find 
it plausible and persuasive. It contains detail of all household expenditure, and clearly was 
maintained over the period. I can see differences in handwriting as you would expect with 
entries being added on a regular basis, and notes in the margins. For the avoidance of doubt 
I am satisfied that this has not been constructed for the purposes of this complaint. Mrs T 
has not given permission to pass this to HSBC, but I can confirm that I have reviewed it fully 
and found the following entries that I am persuaded are the relevant premiums.
4 October 1991 to 1 February 1992 - 2 x £15.00 = £30.00
1 March 1992 to 1 February 1993 - 12 x £18.00 = £216.00
1 March 1993 to 1 October 1994 - 20 x £20.40. = £408.00
1 November 1994 to 1 April 1996 - 18 x £20.91 = £376.38
1 May 1996 to 1 October 1996 - 6 x £17.40 = £104.40
The total of these premiums is £1,134.78.
In summary, I accept that neither HSBC nor Mrs T has documentary evidence of the policy 
start date and premiums, but in the absence of such evidence, in this case I am satisfied that 
the information Mrs T has provided is sufficient to demonstrate the existence of the policy 
from 1991. And I note that HSBC itself accepts that the information provided by the insurer 
may be inaccurate.
I further said in my provisional decision that, for those reasons, I proposed to uphold Mrs Ts 
complaint.
As I noted above, Mrs T accepted my conclusions. However, HSBC responded to my 
provisional decision to say that it had concerns with using a customers personal hand-
written ledger as evidence  in the past it had had similar examples provided, and after 
further scrutiny, it had found that the information contained was an elaborate attempt to 
obtain a refund of premiums. HSBC further said that, if Mrs T had kept an old ledger, it would 
be an assumption that other official paperwork ought to be available too, that it could accept as evidence to support a recalculation of compensation. HSBC asked that I seek more 
concrete evidence.
We asked Mrs T to have one further check to see if she could find any documentation 
relating to the PPI. She could not, but she was able to provide a copy of her mortgage 
endowment policy, which started on 5 September 1991. The premiums for this are also 
accurately shown on Mrs Ts ledger. 
The endowment policy start date is consistent with the start of the PPI policy, and had a 
mortgage sum assured of £25,000. Whilst I dont have HSBCs PPI premium rates from 
1991, a monthly PPI premium of £15 is in the range of what Id expect to see to cover the 
payments due on a mortgage of that size, based on interest rates at the time. And it seems 
to me that the endowment policy would have started at the same time as the mortgage that it 
was covering.
Mrs T further said that she kept the endowment policy information as that continued after the 
mortgage was repaid, but other than that she only kept her handwritten notes as they were 
interesting to her.
I understand HSBCs concerns, and I would usually expect to see some documentary 
evidence of the policy. However, in this particular case, and having examined Mrs Ts ledger 
at length, I found the information plausible and persuasive, as I said in my provisional 
decision. 
The existence of a policy Is not in dispute here  the issue is the start date - and Ive kept in 
mind that HSBC invited Mrs T to resubmit her complaint, and itself stated that the start date 
of the policy given by the insurer may be incorrect. I accept that PPI policies werent only 
sold at the start of a mortgage, but in this case it seems to me that theres a greater 
likelihood of Mrs Ts policy being sold alongside the mortgage and endowment policy, rather 
than five years later (and only being in place for a few months).
Ive carefully considered what HSBC has said, but in this particular case Im persuaded by 
the information provided by Mrs T that the policy started in 1991 rather than 1996. Ive not 
found HSBCs submissions sufficient to change my conclusions. So I uphold Mrs Ts 
complaint. 
Putting things right
HSBC should put Mrs T in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out the PPI. So 
HSBC should:
Pay Mrs T 50% of the amount paid each month for the PPI, based on the premiums 
stated above.
Add simple interest to her share of each payment from when it was paid it until she gets 
it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year*.
If it has not already done so, pay Mrs T the sum of £50 in recognition of the 
inconvenience caused, as set out in its original offer of compensation.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give 
Mrs T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should compensate Mrs T as 
described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman