DRN-3078263
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wrongly applied a five-year 
product to their mortgage instead of the two-year product they wanted. They want to repay 
the mortgage without paying an early repayment charge (ERC).
What happened
Mr F and Mrs S took out a new mortgage product in 2018. They say while both two-year and 
five-year products were discussed on a call with Halifaxs mortgage advisor, they chose the 
two-year product. They recently found out Halifax had applied a five-year product which 
expires in January 2024. Mr F and Mrs S say this has made them feel stressed and anxious.  
They want to end their relationship with Halifax and repay the mortgage, without paying the 
ERC.
Our investigator said Halifax had tried unsuccessfully to locate a recording of the call in 2018 
when Mr F and Mrs S chose the product. However, the product transfer offer and other 
documents sent to Mr F and Mrs S said the product was for five years.  
Mr F and Mrs S didnt agree, saying they hadnt been treated fairly. They said Halifax should 
keep call recordings for up to five years. And even if the product term and expiry date were 
clear in the documents it was during the call that they agreed the terms, and this took 
priority.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F spoke to Halifaxs mortgage advisor in November 2018. Halifax hasnt been able to find 
a recording of this call. Its told us what steps it has taken to try to locate a recording and I 
think its made reasonable efforts. I should explain that where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
Although Halifax cant provide a call recording it has provided other evidence. It sent an 
email to Mr F with its recommendation. This said Mr F and Mrs S wanted their payments not 
to change for five years. Halifax also sent a mortgage illustration. This said there was a fixed 
interest rate until January 2024. It set out the interest rate and the ERC, which is payable if 
the mortgage is repaid before 2024.
Halifax issued a product transfer offer to Mr F and Mrs S the next day. Again, this said there 
was a fixed interest rate until January 2024 and set out the interest rate and the ERC. 
Halifax says Mr F and Mrs S accepted the offer digitally. I think its reasonable for Halifax to 
expect Mr F and Mrs S to read the product transfer offer before accepting it and to raise any 
concerns if the product wasnt the one theyd wanted.
Halifax provided copies of annual statements which said the ERC applied until 2024. 
When responding to Mr F and Mrs Ss complaint, Halifax said the call from 2018 had been 
listened to. This was wrong and Halifax apologised, and I think it was right to do so. But this 
doesnt change the outcome of the complaint  whether Halifax applied the wrong product to 
Mr F and Mrs Ss account in 2018.
Im sorry that Mr F and Mrs S were upset when they found out their product didnt expire until 
2024. Im also sorry that the call recording isnt available. But based on the available 
evidence, I dont think I can fairly find that Halifax made an error. It issued documents, 
including the product transfer offer which Mr F and Mrs S accepted, and which clearly set out 
the product term. Mr F and Mrs S didnt raise any concerns about this at the time. If there 
had been a misunderstanding about which product they wanted, I dont think Halifax could 
reasonably have known this. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Halifax to refund the ERC or pay compensation to Mr F and Mrs S. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman