DRN-3216581
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) irresponsibly gave her a credit 
card account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
Barclays told us they opened a credit card for Mrs M on18 October 2010. The credit limit 
was several times reaching £15,470 in December 2015. 
In 2021, Mrs M complained to Barclays to say that the account wasnt affordable and that 
Barclays ought to have made a better effort to understand her financial circumstances 
before giving her credit.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs M didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. 
Barclays will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mrs Ms complaint is that Barclays made credit available that was unaffordable. Its not 
straightforward determining affordability as Mrs M has not provided bank statements or a 
credit report from the time of the credit increases. Barclays has explained that it carried out 
a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer at 
each stage of its lending. Barclays also explained that they considered Mrs Ms 
management of the account as well. Its possible that Barclays failed to make adequate 
checks before providing Mrs M with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better 
enquiries would have caused Barclays to think the initial credit limit or the subsequent credit 
limit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because Mrs Ms income appears to have been sufficient to maintain payments 
on the account, which appears not to have had any missed or underpayments until 
sometime after the last credit increase. And during the time of the credit increases, Ive not 
seen sufficient evidence that demonstrates the sort of financial difficulty which would have, 
most likely, put Barclays off supplying credit to Mrs M.  
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mrs M to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Barclays to think that the credit it 
provided Mrs M was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Mrs M was 
managing her account or what Barclays could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
In reaching this decision I have addressed the complaint of unaffordable lending. In doing 
so, I noted that in this case there are some issues which occurred after the time of the credit 
increases, which have had less weight attached to them because of that. And I have noted 
that Mrs M hadnt opened a dialogue with Barclays about some issues until relatively 
recently, or not at all. So, they have had less weight attached to them than Mrs M may have 
wished.
I know that Mrs M will be disappointed with my decision, and not just because she has put 
time and energy into her complaint. I was sorry to read about the difficulties of her personal 
situation. But I want Mrs M to know that I considered all the submissions made in this case. 
Having done so, I have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman