DRN-1901070
The complaint
Mrs Rs complaint arises from the refusal of a claim made under the mobile phone section of 
her insurance policy with Domestic and General Insurance Plc (D & G). 
What happened 
In August 2019, Mrs R lost her mobile phone and made a claim under her policy. However, 
D & G told her that her policy only provided cover for accidental damage and does not cover 
loss of the phone.   
Mrs R is very unhappy about this. She says she arranged the cover over the phone and 
specifically asked for cover for loss, damage and theft. Mrs M wants D & G to apologise to 
her, refund the premiums she has paid and replace her phone. 
D & G says there is no record of any telephone call to arrange this policy. It says its records 
show that Mrs R arranged the policy, which covered her satellite equipment, her phone and 
another device, online. It says she selected accidental damage cover for the phone only. A 
policy that provided cover for accidental loss and theft of the mobile phone was also 
available from D & G for £14.99 per month but his wasnt selected. D & G says the policy 
documentation sent to Mrs R, when she first took out the policy and at the subsequent 
renewal, set out the terms of the cover clearly and she has made a claim for accidental 
damage to the phone since taking it out. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She did not recommend that it be upheld, 
as she was satisfied the documentation sent to Mrs R was clear that the policy only covered 
the phone for accidental damage and there was no record of any call when the cover was 
discussed.
Mrs R does not accept the investigators assessment. She has made a number of 
submissions, which Ive summarised below: 
She is very disappointed; nothing she said was taken into account and the 
investigator has been biased against her.
D & G is lying about having sent her any information about the policy and its word is 
being taken over hers. She has never received any paperwork from D & G about the 
policy, either when she took it out, or when it was due to renew.  
The first time she received a copy of the policy was by email in September 2019, 
after she complained about the rejection of this claim. It makes no sense for it to 
have sent her a copy then, if it had already sent it to her. 
The fact there is no record of her call to set up the policy doesnt mean she did not 
call. She did not set the policy up online.
She called to enquire about making a claim previously but didnt pursue it, as she 
didnt have time.
She asked for a refund of the premiums after D & G voided her policy, as she is not 
happy she paid all that money when it is refusing to provide the service she has paid 
for and all because it has made a mistake over a computer error. It has taken her 
premiums fraudulently and it is only fair that she have her money back.
The D & G representative she spoke to on telephone must have set up the wrong 
policy. How can the investigator be so certain that it is not a mistake by someone at 
D & G giving her the wrong policy? 
 
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Those selling insurance policies are required to provide the consumer with information about 
the policy that is clear, fair and not misleading so that they are in a position to make an 
informed decision about whether or not to buy it. That doesnt necessarily mean explaining 
every detail and aspect of cover, but it would mean making any significant or unusual 
restrictions on cover sufficiently clear.  
If they are recommending the policy to the consumer, they also need to take reasonable 
steps to make sure it is suitable for them. 
We would generally accept that insurers are entitled to decide what risks they want to cover 
and what risks they want to exclude. So it is not unreasonable for D & G to not choose to  
cover accidental loss claims. 
However, this is a significant restriction and so needs to be made sufficiently clear to the 
policyholder. That means that it should not just be written clearly but should be sufficiently 
prominent in the policy terms. The more significant a term is, the clearer it should be. 
D & G has not been able to provide any evidence of the circumstances of the sale of this 
policy and how it was set up. It says, however, that it was not set up over the phone and was 
most likely selected and set up online by Mrs R. This would mean that no recommendation 
was made to her. 
Mrs R is adamant that she phoned to ask for a policy covering loss, theft and damage to be 
set up and that is what she has paid for. She says D & G must have set up the wrong policy 
by mistake. 
Without any contemporaneous evidence, it is difficult for me to be certain how the policy was 
set up. Mrs R is correct in saying that just because there is no record of her call, it doesnt 
mean a call was not made. However, I have to consider what is most likely to have 
happened. 
It appears that the policy covered three devices for the £8.99 per month premium paid by 
Mrs R. The policy was mainly intended to cover satellite television equipment and additional 
devices, including mobile phones, could be added to the same package.
Ive considered the online process for setting up cover for a phone. When providing the 
cover option that Mrs R had, there is a screen page which says:
 
Not included in this policy
Loss and theft for your  equipment and your device(s).
This is set out prominently on the page and I think this is clear enough to alert any potential 
consumers of the level of cover.
 As it is not certain how the policy was set up, I have also considered the phone process. If 
Mrs R had called to discuss the insurance options with D & G, I have difficulty accepting that 
the option for cover that included theft and loss of the phone, for a higher premium, would 
not have been offered to Mrs R. Most telephone sales of insurance would follow a script of 
some kind, which would mean that different levels of cover available and the relevant 
premiums would be discussed. 
Mrs R has suggested that the wrong information might have been entered to set up the 
wrong policy but, while possible, this also does not seem likely. She has not said that she 
was expecting to pay a higher premium.
D & G has also provided evidence that a welcome letter and policy documentation to Mrs R 
when the policy was first set up and a renewal documentation. Mrs R says this was never 
received, which I have no reason to doubt. However, D & G is only responsible for sending 
the documentation, if correspondence goes astray in the post this is not something it is 
responsible for.
Mrs R also says that it didnt tell us it had emailed her in September 2019 with a copy of the 
policy after she made the complaint, which means it was covering up and it makes no sense 
to have sent her a copy of the policy then if it had already sent her a copy with the renewal 
details in June 2019 as D & G claims. I see nothing sinister or untoward in it sending a copy 
of the policy in response to Mrs Rs complaint about the terms. Or that it emailed her in 
response to the complaint, when it says these documents were previously posted to her.  
As Ive said, D & G is not responsible for any failure of post to be delivered, only sending it 
and so even if Mrs R didnt receive a copy of the policy documentation, it doesnt mean that 
D & G is not entitled to rely on the policy terms. 
The policy document is in my opinion, sufficiently clear, the first page of the policy says: 
This policy covers your  [ satellite] Equipment and Additional Equipment against the costs 
of:  Accidental Damage  and Breakdown arising from faults occurring after any relevant
manufacturers warranty period.
The cover letter also sets out the key features of cover: at a glance  Breakdown and 
Accidental damage cover. It doesnt mention theft or loss.
Mrs R says the documents also say that it covers unlimited repairs or replacements which 
suggests that it covers loss of the phone. I dont agree that this would be so misleading as to 
require D & G to cover this phone. Considering the documents as a whole, they set out the 
cover clearly enough. 
The policy doesnt cover loss of the phone and there is simply not enough evidence that the 
policy was incorrectly set up by D &G. Mrs R feels very strongly about this and asked how 
the investigator could be certain it was not an error by D & G. I am not certain about this, it is 
very difficult to ever be certain about what happened, and when, in complaints such as 
these. However, I do not have to be certain; I have to consider what is more likely, on the 
balance of probabilities. And having considered everything provided to me, including all the 
points made by Mrs R, I do not consider it has been established that D & G incorrectly set up 
a damage only policy for Mrs R. 
I am also satisfied that the policy documentation provided made it sufficiently clear that the 
cover being paid for didnt include loss of the phone. It may have been Mrs Rs intention to 
purchase a policy which covered loss but I cant attribute that not happening to anything      
D & G did wrong. Finally, Mrs R says D & G voided the policy but it says it was cancelled, as she cancelled her 
direct debit instruction for payment of the premiums. I can understand why she did not want 
to continue with the policy, but there is no reason for D & G to return he premiums paid, as it 
provided the cover paid for. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman