DRN-3471249
The complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance (Close Brothers).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Close Brothers, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law is the Consumer Rights Act (2015). That says, amongst other things, that 
the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close 
Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says 
the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the 
other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr D. The car here was about 
six and a half years old and had already completed over 90,000 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect quite a bit of wear and tear to be present.
The relevant legislation says that when we consider whether a car has been of satisfactory 
quality we should also think about whether it has proven durable. I dont think that can be 
said to be the case here.
I say that because I dont think a reasonable person would expect to have experienced the 
problems Mr D has even with a car of this age and mileage.
The December 2021 assessment shows that the turbo has now failed and will cost over 
£3,000 to replace. I dont think a reasonable person would expect to incur such significant 
expense on a car that cost a little under £7,400 only nine months earlier. I think that, along 
with the other problems that have needed rectifying since Mr D took receipt of the car, 
suggest the vehicle hasnt been durable.
And, even if Im wrong about the car not being durable, I also think its likely the turbo fault 
was developing on this car from the beginning. Mr D has explained that he complained about 
the car losing power within days of taking receipt of it. Whilst I understand that a turbo fault 
wasnt picked up in the April 2021 garage work I note the independent inspector identified 
evidence of a degree of wear in the turbocharger when he looked at the car in October 
2021 and that Mr D complained to Close Brothers in September 2021 when he said the car 
had gone into limp mode. As the turbo had clearly failed completely by December 2021 I 
think the previous evidence supports the view of a developing fault.
The relevant legislation allows a business one chance to fix faults present, or developing, 
when cars are supplied. I think Close Brothers have had that opportunity. So, they should 
now allow Mr D to reject the car.
Putting things right
Close Brothers should end the finance agreement and collect the car from Mr D at no cost to 
him. Theyll need to refund Mr Ds deposit with interest as hes been deprived of that money.
I think its fair for Close Brothers to retain some of Mr Ds finance instalments in recognition 
of the use hes had from the car. The independent inspector noted that Mr D had travelled 
about 3,700 miles by October 2021; seven months into the agreement. Thats a little under 
average mileage and I think Mr D has therefore had reasonable use of the car during that 
period. But there was very little change in the mileage Mr D was able to cover between the 
October 2021 inspection and the quote he received for works in December 2021 and hes 
not been able to drive the car since. So, I think Close Brothers should refund any finance 
instalments Mr D has paid since the independent inspection on 19 October 2021 and up to 
the point the car is collected, and the agreement ended. Theyll again need to add interest to 
that refund as Mr D has been deprived of the money.
Mr D has clearly been inconvenienced by these matters as hes had to take the car back to 
the garage on several occasions and has had to refer the problem to a specialist. Hes also 
had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. 
In those circumstances I would agree with the investigator that Close Brothers should pay 
him £150 in compensation.
They should also refund the £130.80 Mr D paid to have faults diagnosed, again adding 
interest.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited to:
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr D.
Refund Mr Ds deposit and add 8% simple interest per year to that refund from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund any finance instalments paid since 19 October 2021, adding 8% simple 
interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.Refund the £130.80 Mr D paid for diagnostics, adding 8% simple interest per year to 
that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr D £150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ds credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman