DRN-2136695
The complaint
Mrs K would like Metro Bank PLC to reimburse the money she lost when she fell victim to 
cryptocurrency investment scam.
What happened
In early 2019, Mrs K was reading an online news article about a famous entrepreneur and 
his plans for investing in Bitcoin. She recalls that under the article there was a link about 
trading in Bitcoin, so she contacted the company and was then phoned by a broker.
The broker told her to invest for a week and she would see promising returns. 
On 14 February 2019 Mrs K paid a deposit of £250 and then made a further payment of 
£1,250 on 19 February 2019. Both payments were made using her husbands credit card.
The following week, the broker told her that the investment of £1,250 had made a gain. 
Mrs K recalls that the broker suggested opening an account with a cryptocurrency exchange 
as it would be easier to make payments and cost her less than using a credit card. She 
opened the account on 26 February 2019. On 27 February 2019, the broker paid £1,470.59 
to the newly opened account. This was a return of the £1,250 that Mrs K had invested the 
previous week along with a profit of £220.59. Mrs K has explained that this won her 
confidence and trust. She returned the funds to her Metro account.
Mrs K continued to invest. She sent a total of £4,500 from her Metro bank account to the 
account she held with the cryptocurrency exchange. She made a payment of £1,500 on 
5 March 2019, followed by a payment of £2,000 on 4 April 2019 and a final payment of 
£1,000 on 8 July 2019. Mrs K says that she shared her screen with the broker when making 
each payment so he could help her to move the funds to the right place.
Mrs K says that she uncovered shed been scammed later in the year when she demanded 
to see profits. She recalls that the broker was aggressive and told her she needed to pay 
another £10,000 to get her money back. He then vanished from all modes of contact. When 
she researched online, she saw reports that the brokerage was a scam operation. 
On 9 October 2019, Mrs K contacted Metro to report what had happened and to ask for help. 
Metro said it was not able to accept liability for what had happened because it was not 
involved in monitoring the transactions once the money had left her current account. 
 
Unhappy with the banks position, Mrs K made a complaint. Metro issued its final response 
on 20 November 2019. It said it had reached the limitations of how much it could help. It said 
the payments Mrs K made fell outside of the scope of the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the CRM Code) and the bank was not otherwise responsible for reimbursing her loss.
Mrs K referred her complaint to this service. Our Investigator looked into the situation but did 
not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He didnt think the payments Mrs K made 
were unusual or concerning enough to fairly expect the bank to have asked more questions 
about them at the time they were made. He also agreed with the banks position that the 
payments Mrs K made fell outside of the scope of the CRM Code.  
Mrs K didnt accept that position. She agreed that she was the owner of the cryptocurrency 
account and that she authorised the transfers from it but pointed out that only did so under 
the fraudsters directions. She said Metro had breached its duty of care towards her as their 
client and its interference could and would have made a difference. She felt the bank should 
have foreseen the fraud that was perpetrated as a consequence of the transactions. 
Whilst the complaint has been with me, I have been in contact with Mrs K. During this time, 
I explained that I didnt think I could fairly say that Metros actions had caused her loss. 
Mrs K disagreed. In summary, she pointed to relevant law, regulation and good industry 
practice and suggested that Metro should have flagged the payments she was making. She 
pointed to another case considered by this service which had been upheld in similar 
circumstances. She suggested that we needed to see the situation from her point of view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what 
I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. Mrs K has referred to other 
cases considered by this service and pointed out that the circumstances are similar. But we 
assess each case on its own merits and I am not able to compare the outcomes of 
complaints as the precise circumstances may be very different, even if on the face of it the 
complaints stem from similar underlying events. 
Ive looked at what I think is the heart of the matter here, being; should Metro have 
recognised Mrs Ks payments as being suspicious and intervened to try and mitigate the risk 
of her falling victim to financial harm from fraud.  
Having considered whether Metro could, or should, have done more to stop Mrs K making 
the payments she did, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably ask Metro to take responsibility 
to refund the money Mrs K has lost. I can understand this will be a very disappointing 
outcome for Mrs K so I will explain why. I accept that Mrs K has been the victim of a scam. Its clear that losing money to the scam 
has had a significant impact on Mrs Ks life. Shes told us that shes unable to work and 
facing a lot of pressure. Shes explained that she is in dire need of this money and I dont 
underestimate the emotional burden she now carries. But that alone doesnt mean she is 
entitled to be reimbursed by the bank. That all depends on whether the bank did anything 
wrong  that is, could it have done any more to prevent the scam from taking place or 
intervened so that Mrs K would have realised what was happening and stopped sending 
money. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. Mrs K used her security credentials 
to set up and request the payments. This means that at the time she sent the money, she 
authorised the payments and wanted them to be made. Although she did not intend for the 
money to go to a fraudster, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 which apply to 
the payments she made, and the general terms and conditions of bank accounts, Mrs K is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, any relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant times, 
I consider Metro should fairly and reasonably: 
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing 
fraud and scams. 
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is particularly so 
given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
 In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud.
Metro should have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. Metro 
did not identify any of the payments Mrs K made as being suspicious at the time she was 
making them. Ive looked carefully at Mrs Ks current account statements for the six months 
in the lead up to when the scam began to get a clear understanding of how her accounts 
typically ran. Having done so, I can see that Mrs K did make transfers for around the same 
amounts that she moved to her cryptocurrency account as part of this scam. The disputed 
transfers were made over a course of weeks and did not leave her with less money than she 
usually has available for her day to day expenses. As such, I dont think the payments Mrs K 
was making as part of the scam would have stood out enough to be uncharacteristic. 
As the payments were fairly typical given Mrs Ks normal account and payment history, 
I cant fairly conclude the payments were unusual or out of character. The payments appear 
unremarkable in amongst Mrs Ks day to day spending and I dont think the bank missed a 
clear opportunity to identify a potential scam risk. In these circumstances I wouldnt expect 
Metro to take any further action or have a conversation with Mrs K before making the 
payments. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could 
potentially be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and 
ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate payments. For this reason, I dont consider its reasonable to expect Metro to ask questions about 
payments that arent unusual or out of character.
As I dont think Metro acted incorrectly by making the payments, Ive gone on to consider 
whether it should have refunded Mrs K for any other reason. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which Metro has 
signed up to and was in force at the time Mrs K made the final payment of £1,000 on 
8 July 2019.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an authorised push payment (APP) scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code 
applies in the circumstances for any of the payments Mrs K made and, in particular, whether 
Metro ought to reimburse her under the provisions of the Code. 
But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. The CRM Code only 
covers APP scam payments when the funds are being transferred to another person and not 
to a consumers own account. In this case, Mrs K sent the money to her own account held 
with a cryptocurrency exchange. This means I dont think Metro is responsible for 
reimbursing Mrs K because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
I recognise Mrs K was receiving technical support from the broker when she was making the 
payments towards the investment. But it is not in dispute that the account belonged to her 
and she had ultimate control over what happened to the funds in it. This meant that she 
would not have suffered the loss had it not been for the later transfers on from the account 
she held with the cryptocurrency exchange. 
Mrs K has my considerable sympathies. Its not in question that shes been the victim of a 
scam. But overall, I dont think Metro treated Mrs K unfairly when it concluded that it was not 
responsible for refunding the money shed lost. For the reasons I have explained, Im 
satisfied that Metro doesnt have any obligation to refund any of the money Mrs K lost under 
the CRM Code. Nor can I see there are other grounds on which I could say that Metro 
should, fairly and reasonably, bear the responsibility for Mrs Ks loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman