DRN-2227659
The complaint
X and the estate of Mrs M complain about the service she and it received from TSB Bank plc 
(TSB) when TSB were looking into whether to write off Mrs Ms debt.
What happened
In 2015 Mrs M entered a debt arrangement scheme. On 21 November 2018 TSB received a 
letter from Mrs Ms representative (R) notifying them that Mrs M was terminally ill. R asked 
that Mrs Ms debt be written off.
On 29 November R called TSB chasing a decision but TSB said they couldnt discuss the 
case with her because she was not, according to their records, an authorised representative. 
R sent over a completed authority form that day, but argued she had in any event already 
been authorised some while beforehand, and in the light of that raised a complaint. 
That day TSB sent an income and expenditure form out to Mrs M so that they would be able 
to consider writing off the debt when they had her updated financial details. 
On 29 November TSB called Mrs Ms home and as X (her daughter) picked up the phone 
they talked to her. R complained about that because she had been instructed and thought 
TSB should have contacted her, not X or Mrs M. 
On 3 December TSB spoke to R and acknowledged there had been errors in their process 
and offered £100 in compensation to settle the complaint. R said she would contact Mrs M 
for her instructions. The following day R replied to TSB to say that X had said she was not 
happy with the redress since the decision regarding writing off the debt had not yet been 
made. On 7 December TSB told R it would write off the debt.
Ultimately Mrs M passed away on 22 December 2018. TSB carried on with their 
investigation into the complaint and at the end of January apologised but didnt offer any 
compensation as Mrs M had since passed away and the complaint was now from Mrs Ms 
estate. 
X and the estate of Mrs M were unhappy with TSBs final response and so approached this 
service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that TSB 
hadnt done anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly.
X and the estate of Mrs M didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am extremely sorry to learn that Mrs M passed away and my condolences go out to X and 
for what I am sure was a very stressful and difficult time for her. 
My role here however is to determine a complaint made by R initially on behalf of Mrs M, 
although now that she has passed away it is a complaint from X and Mrs Ms estate. 
Additionally, X has her own areas of complaint but those are separate to the estates.
In relation to the initial complaint this was about TSB not discussing with R, Mrs Ms account, 
because it didnt believe she was authorised by Mrs M to do so. As it turned out she was, 
which TSB accept and have apologised for that. Additionally, there is the issue of Mrs Ms 
request for her debt to be written off, albeit that request was made on her behalf. TSB 
ultimately dealt with that request by granting it and writing the debt off. So, I must conclude 
that in that respect they acted fairly. As to the time it took TSB to reach that decision, by my 
calculation it took 17 days which I think is fair and reasonable. During that time, they were 
required to consider the request and follow their own internal procedures which included 
sending out and income and expenditure form and then getting it back to consider. That I 
think was reasonable, and I cant criticise TSB for attempting to contact their own customers 
they are entitled to do that irrespective of R being appointed to represent her.
But as this part of the complaint comes from the estate, and as an estate cannot be 
distressed or caused upset, in terms of impact, these elements have now fallen by the 
wayside. An estate can be inconvenienced, but when I look at what happened I cannot find 
evidence of that. The debt was written off and there was a very minor error in not realising 
Mrs Ms representative was authorised when in fact she was. But that issue was resolved 
the same day, and so I feel the apology offered by TSB is sufficient, especially as the 
inconvenience was to R and not the estate. 
I turn now to the aspect of Xs complaint and I can see from her complaint form that what 
she has done is adopt the same grounds of complaint as those of the estate. In her later 
correspondence X has mentioned the impact upon herself connected to issues which arose 
after Mrs M had passed away. But, that is outside the scope of this complaint. In other words 
that was not what the original complaint was about and so it is not something I can deal with. 
So, although X and the estate of Mrs M will probably be disappointed with my decision I cant 
say TSB has subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against TSB Bank plc 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and the estate of 
Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2021. 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman