DRN-2956170
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Tesco Underwriting Limited failed to deal adequately with the 
repairs following their home insurance claim for impact damage to their home. They are 
represented by their son Mr T1. 
 
What happened
In October 2018 Mr T was reversing his car onto his drive when his foot slipped onto the
accelerator and caused a collision with the front of the house. Mr and Mrs T made a claim to
Tesco, who arranged to inspect the damage and accepted the claim. Mr and Mrs T were
anxious to have the repairs carried out before Christmas that year. Tesco says it attempted
to find contractors who could carry out the work in that time frame but was unsuccessful.
Mr and Mrs T then obtained a quote of their own in order for Tesco to pay them a cash
settlement. But Tesco assessed that Mr and Mrs Ts quote was over scoped and vastly
overpriced. The parties couldnt agree on a cash settlement so Tesco agreed to appoint
contractors to do the work. Over the winter the property got damp due to the work not being
carried out.
The external brickwork started in February 2019 and took three days to complete. However
because of disputes between the contractors and Mr and Mrs T those contractors refused to
carry out any further work. Tesco agreed to appoint new contractors. Once the internal
works were completed there was further snagging work to carry out outside. However the
relationship with the new contractors broke down and they refused to attend further. Tesco
agreed with Mr and Mrs T a cash settlement for the remaining works.
In respect of a cabinet this was affected by the damp issues and Tesco agreed to appoint a
contractor to carry out a repair. However Mr and Mrs T werent satisfied that the cabinet had
been put back together correctly. It was agreed that the contractors who were doing the
main repairs would deal with this, but Mr and Mrs T werent satisfied.
Mr T1 complained to Tesco that there was still damp coming into the property. Tesco
appointed a surveyor who assessed that the damp was likely to be associated with pre-
existing issues. The contractors later affirmed this. It has waived the excess of £500 and
offered to pay the cost of having the windows cleaned.
Mr and Mrs T obtained a report from a chartered surveyor (Mr V). He identified a number of
issues relating to the sealing and pointing, bedding of joints and the need to carry out
replastering and wallpapering. Tesco didnt agree with the findings and said it relied on its
surveyors report and contractors view.
On referral to this service our investigator said that Tesco should pay to have the necessary
repair work carried out. It should do this by Mr and Mrs T obtaining three quotes to carry out
the work outlined in Mr Vs report and Tesco should pay the costs set out in one of those
quotes. He further said that Tesco should pay £500 further compensation.
Tesco didnt agree and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. Mr T1 said
that whilst his parents accepted the main recommendations of the investigator he questioned
the amount of compensation in light of the fact that he believed Tesco to be responsible for
delays.
Mr T1 has recently sent us photos which reveal more serious cracking than identified in 
Mr Vs report. He believes this is related to the long delay in having the work completed
properly. I have asked that those photos be sent to Tesco. 
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that whilst I accepted the investigators 
recommendations, the photos revealed more serious cracking than had been present when 
Mr V made his report.  
Tesco accepted my findings concerning delays and agreed to the further £500 
compensation. 
With regard to the cash settlement Tesco said that this was paid to Mr and Mrs T for 
outstanding external decoration works and repointing. So it wasnt responsible for the 
pointing or any fault with it.
It referred the recent photos to its suppliers They reviewed them and referred the photo 
evidence to their subsidence team with experience in assessing structural damage. They 
believe the cracking is too severe to be related to the original claim and may well be 
another issue that will require structural investigation and reports to identify any link to 
the original claim. It is prepared to appoint an independent chartered surveyor to review 
this.
Mr T1 had some comments to make on my provisional findings and also about the proposal 
to review the latest cracking. I should point out that the background is intended to be a 
summary only of events so far. Whilst noting what he says, I will restrict my further findings 
to the parties views on my original findings. With that in mind Mr T1s comments are as 
follows:
In autumn 2018 Tesco couldnt find a contractor to quote  it was only when Tesco would 
not approve any of the quotations that Tesco were then asked to chase their own 
contractors.
Part of the problem was undoubtedly that Tesco appointed nobody as overall project 
manager  a role Mr T had to assume in the absence of anybody else.
The compensation seems very low. By the time the works have been redone, Mr and 
Mrs T will have lived with mess and damp and an unusable through lounge/dining room 
for 3 years.
The compensation offered does not reflect the avoidable delay by Tesco and the
inconvenience Mr and Mrs T have been and will be subjected to in the coming months. It 
does not reflect the damage to the dining room table which was returned badly scratched 
from the dismantling and reassembling, but nothing was ever done. Also one of the extra 
leaves underneath has twisted due to the damp and cannot be set on the table. 
Mr and Mrs T will almost certainly have to be put up in a hotel with meals provided for 
during at least part of the works. These costs should be provided for as they are a direct 
consequence of the need to redo the works which are now more extensive owing to the 
delays.
He doesnt think it fair that Mr and Mrs T should be expected to get a cash settlement 
based on the lowest quote. The risk is that the builder quoting lowest would likely miss out certain items and then add to it as the works progressed. He believes Tesco should 
appoint its own contractor.
In respect of the damage shown in the latest photos hes concerned that Tesco has 
brought this up at the last moment, and says there is no evidence of any pre-existing 
structural damage. 
In respect of the proposal to appoint an independent surveyor he is concerned about 
how to ensure that that person is truly independent. 
Mr and Mrs T have changed insurers and they are concerned that if the surveyor doesnt 
find in their favour that they may face a battle" of insurers and potential further 
significant delay.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
delay
Mr T1 says the delays were entirely the fault of Tesco and its contractors. Tesco says there
were various reasons for the delays which were outside its or its contractors control. But it
accepts the claim took longer to deal with than it should have and for that reason waived the
£500 excess.
Initially Mr and Mrs T wanted to have the work carried out before Christmas that year. Tesco
says it consulted several contractors and this wasnt possible, in light of the fact that the
incident happened in late October. Mr T1 says that this was because Tesco was unwilling to
pay local rates. However I can see no evidence that this was the case.
Mr T1 says that his parents were told to get their own quote, so Tesco should have paid a 
cash settlement according to their contractors rates rather than the rates it was prepared to
pay. Tesco says it didnt tell Mr and Mrs T to get their own quote. Im not sure of the exact
timeline here but it does appear that the quote Mr and Mrs T obtained was vastly in excess
of the cost estimated for Tescos contractors to carry out the work, both in price and scope. I
think Tesco was entitled to query that cost and the parties couldnt agree on a cash
settlement so the work couldnt start until late February. I dont think that Tesco was
responsible for delays in starting work.
Tesco said that the completion of the external works was delayed because appointments its
contractors attempted to make werent suitable as Mr and Mrs T were on holiday. It says that
also that Mr and Mrs T caused delays because of the way they treated the contractors, both
of whom had to refuse to carry on doing the job.
Mr T1 denies that his parents were at all difficult, pointing out that Mr T is a surveyor so was
bound to point out shoddy work or question qualifications.
Its difficult to assess this as both parties have their own views about it. I think in truth
contractors are likely to refuse to continue if their work is constantly being overseen and
questioned. Having said that there do appear to have been some snagging issues which
would have been fair to point out. Im inclined to accept Tescos view that the claim took
longer than it should have and that it was in part responsible for some delay. It has howeverwaived the £500 excess and I think that appropriate.
cabinet
As regards the cabinet, I understand that Tesco agreed that this was damaged by the damp
and agreed to repair it. It used an external contractor to repair it. However Mr and Mrs T
were unhappy with the results. It asked that contractor to reattend, however the delay in this
happening meant that it had to ask the contractors working at the property to carry out the
further repair. Mr T1 said that when it was returned it was unsafe and this was a health and
safety issue  Tesco denied that there had ever been any such issue. Again Im inclined to
think Tesco was partly at fault here but I think the issue has been resolved.
outstanding damp issues
Tesco denies its responsible for any remaining damp issues, insisting that these related to
pre-existing issues with the property. It relies on a report from a surveyor associated with the
contractors. I assume he isnt a chartered surveyor. Further in response to the investigators
view the contractors said the property was certified as dry after the repairs. They pointed out
an issue with the window, where there appears to be a gap between the window and the
wall. They believe that rainwater got in causing the present problems with damp.
Mr and Mrs T employed Mr V who is a chartered surveyor. His report said that the work was
not carried out in a good workmanlike manner as follows:
The mastic sealant to both sides of the window where it meets the brick has not been
raked out and sealed against moisture ingress.
The picking out of the pointing to part of the external wall has been omitted in part.
The bed joint between the window sill and the brick is open to both sides of the angle to
the bay.
There is staining to the plinth.
The wallpaper has debonded where the bay meets the main wall and this continues
along the main wall.
There is slight shrinkage in the corner to the skirting and with the timber lining.
The plaster has cracked and debonded beneath the loose lining noted above.
High damp readings were obtained in the left hand wall of the bay.
He recommended that work be carried out to remedy the above matters. He was unable to
inspect behind the dresser and advised this may need to be dismantled to deal with issues 
behind it.
More seriously Mr T1 has recently sent in photos which show to me jagged, more severe
cracking to the plaster across one wall, with another crack near the skirting board. The
cracks appear to be quite wide, and have developed since Mr Vs report of November 2019.
I have considered whether the present problems are most likely a direct result of the impact
damage and the subsequent repairs, and I think its likely that they are. I prefer the evidence
of Mr V to that of the contractors. What I would say is that if the contractors identified existing
issues that would have prevented an effective repair they should nevertheless have advised
Tesco who should have agreed to review what was needed to ensure an effective repaircould be completed. This is reinforced by the recent set of photos  I find it hard to believe
that that sort of cracking would be happening but for the impact damage/repairs.
I think that Tesco should pay Mr and Mrs T a cash settlement to enable them to have the
repairs completed, as set out below. It should also pay the cost of Mr Vs report.
compensation
As Ive noted, Tesco has waived the £500 excess and I would regard this as compensation. I
explained above how I felt that was sufficient for the upset caused by delays. But it doesnt
go far enough in my view to compensate Mr and Mrs T for all of the upset theyve suffered,
particularly given the poor repairs. Overall, I think Tesco should pay a further £500
compensation.
In respect of both parties comments on the cracking recently identified I should advise that 
Tesco only recently became aware of those photos when I asked the investigator to send 
them to it. Whilst there have been no previous issues with subsidence I do have to say that 
given the size of the cracks it would be wise to have the issues assessed in case a 
subsidence claim needs to be made. If I were to tell Tesco nevertheless to pay a cash 
settlement without the proposed review this would risk incurring further problems in future.
So I think Tesco should send out an independent chartered surveyor to assess whether the 
latest cracking is part of the impact damage. I understand Mr T1s point about their 
independence, so any surveyor appointed should not have commercial links with Tesco (or 
its loss adjusters) and so be genuinely independent. If the surveyor thinks the latest cracking 
is part of the impact damage so, then I think my proposal for a cash settlement holds good, 
and any repairs should include the cracking. Though I do think the previous cash settlement 
paid to Mr and Mrs T was intended to include the pointing, so any cost for the picking out of 
the pointing shouldnt be included.
If the surveyor doesnt think the new cracking is part of the impact damage, then Im afraid it 
looks likely this will have to be a new claim. Tesco would still have to pay the cash 
settlement proposed for the issues defined by Mr V (less the pointing). I note Mr T1s points 
about this, but it is standard practice. If Mr and Mrs T get quotes they dont have to tell the 
contractors concerned that it is an insurance claim, or indeed that they are obtaining other 
quotes. And if further work appears necessary as the work progresses (e.g. behind the 
cabinet) Id expect Tesco to pay any reasonable additional cost. I dont think however, given 
the issues that arose between Mr and Mrs T and Tescos contractors it would be reasonable 
to expect Tesco to send out further contractors to deal with the remedial repairs. With regard 
to the table this appears to be a new issue and I can only say itd be reasonable for Tesco to 
consider this. 
As regards compensation, I still think that a total of £1,000 (including the £500 waived 
excess) is fair and reasonable. This is a substantial award and is in line with awards we have 
made in similar cases. I cant anticipate any future distress and inconvenience. With regard 
to a hotel, I dont see any present need for that, though again I cant anticipate whether if 
theres a future claim for subsidence it might be necessary then
Lastly I do understand the concerns over the change in insurer, should a subsidence claim 
arise. If it does, I dont think I can say that Tesco is at fault. I also dont think, depending on 
when it is assessed the claim arose, I can say that the new insurer shouldnt be involved. I 
would expect Tesco to comply with the Association of British Insurers Domestic Subsidence 
Claim Handling Agreement. If a claim is made within the first eight weeks of the changeover, 
the previous insurer will deal with it. Claims of between 8 weeks and 1 year should be 
handled by the new insurer with the cost of settlement shared equally between the two insurers.  
Apart from where theyve changed as Ive set out above, my provisional findings are now 
final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Tesco should appoint an independent chartered surveyor to assess whether the new 
cracking is part of the original claim. If it assesses that it is then Tesco should pay a cash 
settlement to Mr and Mrs T to have the repairs completed. The scope of those repairs are as 
set out in Mr Vs report and any additional repairs necessary as identified in Mr T1s recent 
photos, but not including the picking out of the pointing. Mr and Mrs T should obtain three 
quotes for the repairs. Tesco should then pay a cash settlement equivalent to the lowest of 
those quotes to Mr and Mrs T.
If the surveyor thinks the cracking should form part of a new claim, then Tesco should still 
pay the cash settlement as set out above, but excluding the new crack repairs.
Tesco should further pay £500 compensation (additional to the waived excess, making total 
compensation paid of £1,000). And it should pay the cost of Mr Vs report together with 
interest at 8% per year from the date Mr and Mrs T paid that cost until the date it reimburses 
them.
Tesco Underwriting Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any
interest paid. Should Mr and Mrs T request it, Tesco should provide them with a certificate
showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, they can reclaim it.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to provide the remedy set out 
above at Putting things right.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman