DRN-3614005
The complaint
Mr N complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) failed to secure his account 
and didnt keep him advised about the security of his bonds.
What happened
Mr N had difficulties accessing his online NS&I account and called them to discuss it. It 
became apparent that details had been changed by an unknown third party whod attempted 
to transfer the full amount of Mr Ns bonds. Because Mr N had identified an issue with his 
account, NS&I were able to stop the pending transfer of his funds which prevented any direct 
financial loss to Mr N.
NS&I put a block on Mr Ns account to prevent any transfers. In a phone call the day after, 
NS&I told Mr N his funds were safe. NS&I then arranged for new details to be issued for his 
online account and a new account number. 
Over the next few weeks, Mr N tried to contact the case handler at NS&I without success 
and was left wondering what was happening to his account and whether it was safe. A 
couple of weeks after the problem was identified, NS&I sent Mr N new account details. 
Further contact was made between Mr N and NS&I about three weeks after the original 
problem was identified and arrangements were made for Mr N to access his account.
Mr N complained to NS&I about the lack of communication from them and their failure to 
respond to his enquiries. NS&I responded to Mr N and assured him his funds were safe. 
They explained that reduced staffing due to covid meant they had less people to deal with 
customers queries and apologised for not answering Mr Ns communications.
Mr N remained unhappy with how NS&I responded and brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our 
investigators who reviewed the information provided by both parties. They thought that NS&I 
had acted reasonably and didnt uphold the complaint.
 Mr N disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of his 
complaint, commenting that he was left worrying about his funds because of the lack of 
contact from NS&I and Mr N wanted proof of the new account details that were sent to him.
Mr Ns complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns account security was breached and an attempt to remove his funds was prevented, in 
part, by the timing of his call to NS&I about the problems he was having accessing his 
account. Once NS&I became aware that Mr Ns account had been accessed by an 
unauthorised third party, they secured it and issued new security details. 
NS&Is actions are what Id expect them to do in such situations. I recognise that it would 
have been a distressing time for Mr N because he was unsure of what was happening with 
his account. Mr N received a call from a supervisor on the day he notified NS&I of the 
problem. During the call he was reassured that his funds were safe but wasnt given any 
specific details about his account because the security details had been changed by the 
unknown third party earlier that day. Mr N then received a further call the day after the event 
from NS&I where he was told his funds were safe.
Mr Ns principal complaint is that he then heard nothing from NS&I for about three weeks. Mr 
N explained that he attempted to speak with and email his contact about the security of his 
account  but with no success. NS&I have explained that lack of staff is the reason for not 
replying or answering his calls. I appreciate the staffing difficulties that NS&I were 
experiencing at the time impacted their ability to answer their customers enquiries, but I can 
also imagine the frustration and worry this caused Mr N because he was still unsure about 
the security of his funds.
I dont think NS&I provided the best customer service to Mr N during this period, but they 
had secured his account and informed him his funds were safe. It would have been 
preferable to have reassured him after their initial conversations, but the staffing problems 
seem to have prevented those further updates. 
Mr N wanted proof that hed received details of his new account and security information. 
Ive seen a copy of a letter sent to Mr N advising of new account details dated about two 
weeks after the breach of his account. NS&I confirmed it had been posted the day after and 
Mr N refers to it in a call to NS&I a few days later. So, I think that its reasonable to conclude 
that NS&I sent Mr N new account details following the breach of his security.
Whilst I think NS&I could have improved their communication with Mr N, they had advised 
him that his funds were secure, blocked his account from any further transfers and changed 
his account details. Ive also kept in mind that the original problems caused here were the 
result of unauthorised third parties trying to steal Mr Ns money. So, taking everything into 
account, I wont be asking NS&I to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman