DRN-4298181
The complaint
A company which Ill call S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc treated them unfairly when it 
wouldnt extend a loan agreement, meaning they had to sell a property at a lower value than 
planned. 
The complaint is brought on Ss behalf by their director, Mr S.
What happened
S held an interest only development loan with Lloyds which was initially due to mature in 
June 2022. The maturity date was extended by the bank until 11 September 2022. 
S told us:
They purchased a property to develop in December 2020, but the Coronavirus 
pandemic affected the project timescales so they approached Lloyds for a three-
month extension so they could sell the property. Throughout this process, they had 
been open and honest with the bank and kept it fully updated on progress.
They marketed the property in May 2022 and had an independent valuation 
undertaken which valued the property at £1,100,000 and local estate agents said this 
was easily achievable. However, four months wasnt enough to get a sale at that 
price and they didnt want to rush and accept a sale at a lower value.
Lloyds wouldnt agree to an extension and said the loan had to be repaid by 11 
September 2022  not just the exchange of contracts for the property sale. Their 
relationship manager (RM) told them unless the balance was repaid in full by this 
date, the bank would default the loan and charge a penalty of around 1% per day.
The RM said they could put them in contact with a broker to maybe look at changing 
the loan to a buy to let mortgage. However, the property wasnt designed to be 
rented and they were concerned that tenants would cause the property value to 
decrease. So, they had no choice but to sell the property at a reduced value of 
£1,000,000.
Their director had been caused distress and inconvenience because the property 
had needed to be sold at a loss to meet the repayment date. And they believed their 
RM hadnt provided a reasonable level of service to prevent this. 
Lloyds told us:
In March 2022, due to the impact of the Coronavirus pandemic, it had agreed a 
three-month extension to Ss loan which had been due to mature in June 2022.
In June 2022, S asked for a further extension, but their RM explained this was 
unlikely to be agreed due to the nature of the loan and said that the outstanding 
balance would need to be repaid on 11 September 2022. Ss RM offered to introduce 
them to a broker who may be able to help with refinancing, possibly to a buy to let 
mortgage.
On 20 July 2022, the RM explained that if S didnt repay the loan on the due date, 
this would mean that the loan would default, and their account would go overdrawn 
and be passed to its recoveries department. It had told S in writing on several 
occasions how much interest would accrue should they go into their overdraft and the 
interest rate that was payable wouldnt be 1% per day. However, the RM did also 
apply to the banks credit team for the term extension requested by S.
It told S on 25 July 2022, that the extension request had been submitted and this had 
been confirmed to them by the end of July. However, S said the property had already 
been marketed and sold at a loss of £100,000.
Ss solicitor had requested a letter of non-crystalisation in mid-August 2022. S had 
been directed to a different department as their RM had been on annual leave, but 
the RM had still been able to provide this within the timescales provided. 
It had told Mr S that Ss credit history hadnt been negatively impacted from the 
issued they experienced. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that she couldnt hold 
Lloyds responsible for Ss decision to sell their property when, or for the value they did. She 
also said that she hadnt seen any evidence the RM had said the loan couldnt be refinanced 
at a later date, but even if that was the case, the onus was on S to repay their loan within the 
agreement timescale. She also didnt think the valuation was a guarantee of the value the 
property would sell at, and she was satisfied the RM had clarified the interest rate payable 
by S before they sold their property. 
S didnt agree. They said they believed what the RM had told them about not being able to 
extend their loan and the costs theyd incur if they didnt meet the loan repayment date. So 
they felt Lloyds had failed in its duty of care to them and asked for an ombudsman to look 
into their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S says Lloyds treated them unfairly because they were forced to sell a property at a lower 
value than expected, but I dont agree. Lloyds wasnt obligated to extend the term of its 
agreement with S, neither did it have a duty of care to do so. The end date of the agreement 
was in June 2022, at which point the bank could have called upon the loan in line with the 
terms and conditions. But Ive seen that Lloyds agreed to a term extension for three months 
until September 2022 so I cant reasonably say the bank treated S unfairly when the RM told 
them that the outstanding balance would need to be repaid on this date. 
S says that they made the decision to sell at a lower value mainly because in March 2022, 
their RM said a further extension wouldnt be agreed and because of the costs theyd incur if 
the loan became an unauthorised overdraft. But Im not persuaded thats the case. I 
recognise it would have been frustrating for S that in September 2022 the bank said it would 
agree to a further extension, shortly after they had already marketed and sold their property 
at a lower amount than their own valuation suggested. However, this doesnt mean that Lloyds, decision to extend would have been granted even if S had been told that it may be a 
possibility in March 2022. 
Ive seen the email sent by the RM in March 2022, and it says that the bank could only give 
an extension of three months. I think its likely this was Lloyds position at the time and 
therefore the RM was providing the factual information at that time. I also think its 
reasonable that in March 2022, S was told they needed to repay the debt in September, 
because this was the new contractual end date and therefore the correct information at the 
time. I havent seen anything that implied when Lloyds allowed the original extension, that it 
was prepared to offer this as a three-month term extension with the option to extend this 
further. I also havent seen any evidence that S made the bank aware in March 2022 that 
they thought the three-month extension wouldnt be sufficient. So I think S ought to have 
been reasonably aware they would need a way to repay the loan to meet the September 
deadline. 
Ive also seen that in June 2022, three months before the new repayment date Ss RM 
offered to put them in contact with a broker who may be able to look at refinancing to a buy 
to let mortgage for them. However, S told us they decided not to take this option to mitigate 
the potential loss they say theyve been caused as it may also lower the property value. S 
then contacted the RM again in July 2022 to ask for assistance and they said theyd put a 
request through to see if the loan could be extended again, which S acknowledged but then 
chose to reduce the sale price of their property. So I think the bank was trying to assist S as 
requested. 
I recognise that S believes they were likely to sell their property for £100,000 more than they 
did. However, I think its worth noting here that Ss property valuation is simply that, it is an 
estimate of what the property may be worth on the open market. A property valuation doesnt 
provide a guarantee of what a property will sell for  or if it does achieve this valuation, how 
quickly a sale would take place. And Ive seen evidence from Mr S that he told Lloyds in July 
2022, that S had attempted to sell the property but hadnt been able to do so. So Im not 
persuaded that even if Lloyds had granted the three-month extension, that this would have 
had a material impact here. And I cant fairly hold Lloyds responsible for a speculative loss of 
what a property may have sold for had it been marketed it at a higher value and if it would 
have achieved this within a small extended period.
S says that their RM didnt give a reasonable level of service and gave them incorrect 
information which impacted their decision to sell their property at a lower value. Its not for 
me to fine or punish a business for making a mistake, and there is no evidence to say what 
the RM told S would be payable as a daily interest rate on an unauthorised overdraft if they 
didnt repay the loan as expected. However, even if I accept that the RM gave S incorrect 
information about the interest rate payable on the overdraft initially, Ive seen emails 
between S and the RM where the information was clarified shortly after Mr S says the 
incorrect information had been given. This was also around the same time as Mr S said S 
was struggling to sell the property and asked the RM to request a further extension. 
So although I recognise this would have been distressing for Mr S to be told the costs would 
be so significant should S be unable to repay the loan as planned, Im not persuaded, given 
the timescales involved, that this incorrect information had the impact on Ss decision to sell 
the property for a lower value which the company says it did. 
S says that their director has been caused distress and inconvenience due to Lloyds 
actions. But this complaint has been brought on Ss behalf, so S is the eligible complainant. 
This means that I cant look at any distress or inconvenience caused to a director in a 
personal capacity. Limited companies like S, as corporate bodies rather than individuals, are not capable of suffering distress, which means I can only look at the inconvenience caused 
to S by Lloyds actions.
I recognise that S is unhappy about the sale of their property at a lower value, and their 
director will be disappointed with my decision. But based on everything Ive seen, I dont 
think Lloyds has done anything wrong, so I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman