DRN-2577309
The complaint
Mr C complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr C had taken out three loans with a business (company A) between October 2010 and 
April 2011. Due to a restructuring of the business, L2G has taken responsibility for the loan 
approved in April 2011 but has told Mr C that company A kept responsibility of the previous 
loans. Theres limited information about the two loans approved in 2010.
Mr Cs complaint about L2G is in relation to the loan approved in April 2011. L2G has 
provided the loan agreement and I can see that this loan was lent to Mr C by company A but 
as L2G has taken over some of the responsibility of company A, it is responsible for this 
loan. 
When Mr C complained to L2G about the loan, it didnt uphold his complaint, it said the loan 
was responsibly lent. Unhappy with L2Gs response, Mr C referred his complaint to this 
service.
The details provided about the loan show that the loan was for £3,737.55 to be repaid over 
18 months with 78 weekly repayments of £133.56. The adjudicator that looked at Mr Cs 
complaint thought it should be upheld but L2G disagreed it said the checks show that Mr C 
could afford the loan and that it wouldnt have known about Mr C struggling to repay the 
previous loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time the loans were offered. Having done so, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint and Ive 
explained why below:
At the time of lending, company A was required to carry out enough checks to make 
an informed decision before agreeing to lend. It wasnt just supposed to be a risk 
assessment (not just based on a pound and pence calculation) but needed to be 
borrower focused (assessing the sustainability of the repayments over the term) 
without Mr C suffering adverse consequences in his finance. Company A obtained 
information from Mr C about his income and expenses and verified the information 
using Mr Cs bank statement and payslips. So, I think its checks went far enough. 
However, I dont think it sufficiently considered what it knew and ought to have known 
about Mr C when it agreed to lend this further loan in April 2011.
Mr C has provided evidence to show that in January 2011, he fell into arrears with 
repaying the previous loan and a default notice was issued. L2G has said it wouldnt 
have known about the default notice. However, Im not persuaded that this is case. 
The loan in question was granted by company A and company A also lent Mr C the 
previous loan, as this wasnt Mr Cs first loan with the business, I would expect that it 
had assess to Mr Cs previous lending history with it. So, company A was aware that 
Mr C was struggling to repay his previous loan and had default notice issued. 
The bank statement company A obtained from Mr C also show that Mr C was 
borrowing from at least two other lenders. So, the business knew that Mr C struggled 
to repay his previous loan with company A and that he was borrowing from other 
lenders around the same time. It should therefore have reasonably been aware that 
Mr C wasnt in a sustainable financial position and that further lending was likely to 
have adverse consequences on Mr Cs finances. In those circumstances, it shouldnt 
have lent to the loan in April 2011 to Mr C.
As L2G is now responsible for this loan, it needs to put things right for Mr C.
Putting things right
 I order Loans 2 Go Limited to:
Refund all interest and charges Mr C paid towards the loan granted in April 2011;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges on the loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go Limited to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
Limited must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require Loans 2 Go Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman