DRN-3655931
The complaint
Ms M complains that Wise Payments Limited didnt do enough to prevent the loss she 
incurred as a result of sending money to one of their accountholders. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2019, Ms M lost a significant amount of 
money to what she says was a scam. Of relevance to this complaint is a payment for 
£25,000 that she made in April 2019 from her own bank, to an account held with Wise.
At the time she believed this to be towards a legitimate investment, but she says she later 
discovered it was in fact a scam. In 2021 Ms M contacted Wise and asked for their help in 
recovering her money. Ultimately Wise said they were unable to assist. 
Ms M complained, she believes Wise are responsible for her loss as they opened an 
account for a scammer. She also thinks they didnt effectively monitor their account to 
prevent fraud. Wise maintained their position and the matter was referred to our service. 
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
she didnt agree Wise ought to have done more. Ms M disagrees and has asked for an 
Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Ms M, 
so Ill explain why. 
Im satisfied that Wise correctly followed their account opening process for the account that 
received money from Ms M. I dont think there was anything at that stage that would have 
indicated that the account might later go on to be used in connection with a fraud or scam. 
So, I dont think Wise could have prevented Ms Ms loss in relation to the opening of the 
account.
With regard to the activity on the account in question, I dont think there were any failings by 
Wise in relation to their obligations to be alert to potential fraud and scams which impacted 
on the loss Ms M suffered. The arrival and subsequent spending of Ms Ms money wouldnt 
have stood out as unusual in relation to the account and its expected and intended use. 
I note that Ms M believes there was a beneficiary name mismatch between the named 
accountholder and her payment instruction, and that this is something Wise should have 
identified. The relevant regulations mean that Wise correctly processed the payment if it was 
applied to the unique identifiers (commonly sort code and account number) provided. At the 
time there was no obligation or expectation for Wise to check further information such as a 
beneficiary name and/or any reference. So in these circumstances, even if there was a 
difference between the named beneficiary on the payment instruction and the actual 
accountholders name, this isnt something I would have expected Wise to have identified.
Im also satisfied that Wise didnt receive any notifications of fraud in relation to this account 
prior to all of Ms Ms funds being spent. So when Ms M contacted them in 2021, there wasnt 
anything more Wise could have done to help attempt a recovery. 
Im of course sorry to hear that Ms M has lost so much money which Im aware exceeds the 
£25,000 relevant to this particular complaint. But as I dont think Wise are responsible for 
this, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can tell them they need to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman