DRN-3378397
The complaint
Mr M, through a representative, says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) trading as Everyday
Loans lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M took out a 24-month instalment loan for £1,500 from ELL on 6 June 2018. The
monthly repayments were £130.38 and the total repayable was £3,129.12. 
Mr M says he wasnt given enough information about the loan so couldnt make an informed 
decision. He didnt have to provide bank statements, he had other debts at the time of this 
loan and his personal circumstances were not properly considered. His mental health has 
deteriorated as a result of this borrowing.
Our adjudicator said Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She found the lenders checks 
were proportionate but that it did not make a fair lending decision based on the information it
gathered.
ELL did not respond to the adjudicators assessment. As an agreement wasnt reached the 
complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Mr M required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. In
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mr M. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did ELL make a fair lending decision?
did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr M before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of his income and checked this on a recent payslip and bank statements. It estimated
his living costs using national statistics. It also checked Mr Ms credit file to understand his
credit history and existing monthly credit commitments. It added in the additional credit
commitments it could see from the relevant transactions on Mr Ms bank statements. And
finally it asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation. From these
checks combined ELL concluded Mr M would have monthly disposable income of around
£390 after repaying his outstanding payday loans and making this loan repayment, and so 
he could afford to take on the loan.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I am not satisfied ELL responded appropriately
to the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
As part of its assessment ELL completed a credit check that allowed it to understand how 
much Mr M needed to spend ongoing to meet his monthly credit commitments. It deducted 
the repayments of the payday loans Mr M planned to settle with this loan. This is reasonable. 
But ELL could see Mr M would still be spending £567.29 on two long-term hire purchase 
agreements each month. This was a significant percentage of his income and by giving this 
loan in addition ELL increased the amount Mr M needed to commit to repaying
credit to around 45% of his monthly net income. 
I think at this level the lender ought to have realised there was a risk Mr M would be unable 
to sustainably repay his loan over the term  so without borrowing to repay or suffering other 
adverse financial consequences. And ELL needed to consider this, not just the pounds and 
pence affordability, to meet its regulatory commitments.
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give the loan to Mr M.
Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?I dont find that it did. Mr M says he wasnt given enough information about the loan. But the 
Fixed Sum Loan Agreement Mr M signed clearly set out the terms of the loan, including the 
costs. So I think its most likely he would have known what he was agreeing to: its 
reasonable to expect he would have read the agreement in full before signing. Im sorry to 
hear Mr Ms mental health deteriorated whilst he had this loan. I hope he will find some relief 
now that the investigation into his complaint is complete.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
ELL should:
Refund all the interest and charges Mr M paid, so add up the total amount repaid and
deduct that sum from the capital amount borrowed.
If this results in him having effectively made over payments then ELL should refund
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If there is any capital balance outstanding ELL must try to agree an affordable
payment plan with Mr M.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr M a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) trading as Everyday
Loans must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman