DRN-2949767
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Pepper (UK) Limited (trading as Engage Credit) transferred their 
mortgage from one company to another without notifying them. 
What happened
In June 2007, Mr and Mrs R took out a mortgage with the former Northern Rock. They 
borrowed £74,000 plus fees of £25.00 which were added to the loan. The mortgage was 
taken out on a capital repayment basis over a term of 18 years. 
In 2015 the loan was transferred to a new lender, who Ill call lender T. As lender T wasnt 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), they appointed Engage Credit, who is 
regulated, to administer the loan on their behalf. Engage Credit wrote to Mr and Mrs R in 
May 2015, informing them of this transfer. 
In 2020 the loan was transferred again to a new lender, who Ill call lender P. Engage Credit 
remained the administrator for the loan and they wrote to Mr and Mrs R in May 2020, 
informing them once again of this transfer. 
Mr and Mrs R dont believe they were notified about the transfer of their loan and felt it was 
mis-sold. Engage Credit didnt give our service consent to look into the mis-sale aspect of 
the complaint as they said that Mr and Mrs R complained too late. So Mr and Mrs R brought 
their complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. 
Our investigator agreed with Engage Credit that the complaint about the mis-sale of the 
mortgage had been brought too late, so he said we couldnt consider this. But he did agree 
that we could look at the points Mr and Mrs R made about not being notified about the 
transfers of their loan. Mr and Mrs R agreed with this.
Our investigator looked into the concerns raised by Mr and Mrs R and didnt uphold the 
complaint. He said that Engage Credit had informed Mr and Mrs R about the transfers of the 
loan.
Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy with this. They said they didnt think they were correctly 
informed and received a letter one day, and then a welcome letter dated the day after, but 
received them both on the same day. They said that wasnt adequate time for them to 
consider if they wanted Engage Credit to continue with their mortgage. Mr and Mrs R said 
they never received any further information from them asking if they were satisfied with the 
move. 
As they disagreed, Mr and Mrs R asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, 
so it has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the information that has been provided, and I can see that Mr and Mrs Rs 
loan has been transferred to a new lender twice. Once in 2015 and again in 2020. 
Mr and Mrs R have referred to the fact that they were not given any information which 
consulted them if they were satisfied with the loan transfers. I think its helpful to explain that 
Engage Credit are the administrators of the loan, they do not own it. Lender T and Lender P 
are both unregulated and because of this, they dont fall within our jurisdiction. This means 
that we are unable to look into the actual transfer of these loans. We can only look at a 
complaint about the actions of the administrator - Engage Credit. Our rules only allow us to 
consider and comment on complaints about firms that are regulated and comment on 
regulated activities so Im not able to look into this further. 
Moving on to the concerns that Mr and Mrs R have raised about not being notified of the 
transfers, Ive looked at the letters that were sent out to them.
Mr and Mrs R were sent a letter in May 2015 letting them know that their mortgage was 
being transferred to Lender T. This letter explained what this meant for Mr and Mrs R and 
details of what they could expect. 
A welcome letter was sent by Engage Credit who were administering the loan on behalf of 
Lender T, on 21 May 2015. This letter confirmed that there were no changes to the mortgage 
conditions but there could be changes to how Mr and Mrs R made their future mortgage 
payments. The letter then went on to give some information regarding their direct debit and 
contained some information regarding important notices to be aware of. 
The second transfer from Lender T to Lender P took place in 2020. Engage Credit remained 
the administrator for the loan. They wrote to Mr and Mrs R on 11 May 2020 informing them 
of the transfer and then Engage Credit wrote to Mr and Mrs R again on 12 May 2020 
explaining what to expect. A welcome letter was sent by Engage Credit dated 19 May 2020 
with some important information that Mr and Mrs R needed to be aware of.
These letters are clear in what was happening with Mr and Mrs Rs loan. The letters 
explained the transfers that were happening, and which lenders owned the loan. As 
administrators of the loan, I cannot agree that Engage Credit didnt keep Mr and Mrs R 
updated about their loan or what was going to happen. I understand that Mr and Mrs R 
would like us to comment about the transfers of the loan, but as Ive already explained, as 
Lender T and Lender P were unregulated, we cannot look into a complaint about the actual 
transfer of the loan itself. 
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs R, Im satisfied that Engage 
Credit has done what we would have expected them to do in this situation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Maria DruryOmbudsman