DRN-2393766
The complaint
Mr K complains that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) declined a claim made on his buildings 
insurance policy.
What happened
A third-party company attended Mr Ks flat to repair a damaged radiator and found a gas 
leak. As a result, it cut off the gas supply to the flat due to the risk of explosion.
Mr K contacted Zurich, who explained that trace and access of gas leaks arent covered 
under the policy. Mr K agreed that the cost of trace and access could be significant but 
instead had a company come to his property and quote to install electric heating  which will 
cost around £15,000. Zurich has declined to cover this.
Our investigator didnt think this was a complaint that should be upheld. In short, she said 
that this event wasnt covered under the policy so she didnt think it would be fair to ask 
Zurich to pay the claim. Mr K didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for the same 
reasons. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr K but I have explained my 
reasons below.
Insurance policies dont provide cover for every eventuality  rather they cover the 
policyholder for specified perils, which are listed in the policy. For Zurich to consider the 
claim, Mr K must show that the event he is claiming for is an insured event under the policy. 
In this case, I havent seen any evidence that Mr K is covered for gas leaks, tracing gas 
leaks or replacing his homes heating system. So Im not satisfied that Mr K has shown the 
event he is claiming for is covered under the terms of his policy.
Mr K has said the policy is unclear and that gas leaks should be specifically excluded in the 
policy wording, but I dont agree thats necessary. Zurich wouldnt be able to list every 
situation that isnt covered under the policy. Instead, I would expect it to make clear what is 
covered and where there are relevant exclusions in respect of the perils it has listed. Mr Ks 
policy sets out a list of insured perils and is silent on gas leaks, which I dont believe is 
unclear.
So while I have every sympathy for Mr Ks situation, I dont think it would be fair to ask Zurich 
to pay a claim that isnt covered under the policy wording  and therefore Mr K wasnt 
insured for under this policy. And I also havent seen any sections of the policy that would 
cover Mr K for his costs in replacing his heating system. So it follows that I dont think Zurich 
needs to pay for these costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 January 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman