DRN-3044631
The complaint
Mr T complains Domestic & General Insurance Plc handled the renewal of his television 
insurance policy poorly.  
What happened
Mr T had a D&G appliance insurance policy for a television. In 2020 D&G failed to send out 
a renewal notice. The policy had been set up to not renew. After Mr T called D&G, on 23 
November 2020, D&G said it would reinstate the policy and send him renewal documents. It 
didnt give him the price during that call but said it would be provided in the renewal 
documents. 
However, D&G failed to send renewal documents or reinstate the cover. Mr T called again 
on 30 November 2020. D&G offered Mr T a new policy for £6.30 per month. Mr T said he 
would call back if he wanted to accept the offer. 
Mr T complained about the service he had received. In response D&G accepted it had 
incorrectly set the policy up so as not to renew. To put things right it offered to reinstate the 
cover at a renewal price of £7.00 per month from the date it had expired. It said that would 
put him back in the position he would have been if it hadnt made a mistake. 
D&G wasnt willing to offer Mr T cover for the lower price offered on 30 November 2021. It 
said Mr T hadnt chosen to accept this offer for a new policy. It said it now only offered new 
policies for brand new televisions. D&G didnt offer Mr T any compensation. He wasnt happy 
with the proposed resolution so came to this service. 
Our investigator said D&G had already done enough to put things right for Mr T. She said it 
was reasonable for it not to provide the reduced price it offered in late November 2020. So 
she didnt recommend it do anything differently. Mr T didnt accept that, so the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require D&G to pay Mr T any compensation or do anything 
differently. 
D&Gs accepted it made mistakes. Id expect it to take steps to put Mr T in the position he 
would be in without its errors. I think its offer to reinstate the cover, from what would have 
been the date of renewal and for the price he would have paid, is enough. D&G hasnt 
agreed to provide the cover at the slightly lower price offered in late November. I think its 
reasons for that are fair and reasonable. 
Im not going to require D&G to pay Mr T any compensation for distress or inconvenience. 
He may have ended up making an extra call or two to sort this matter out. But I dont think 
anything he experienced was so significant that it would be reasonable to require D&G to 
pay him compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Domestic & General Insurance Plc to pay Mr T 
any compensation or do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman