DRN-3435822
The complaint
Mr J complains about the support offered by Santander UK Plc when he experienced 
financial difficulties and later restrictions placed on his accounts.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr J and Santander. I wont repeat in  
detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision, Ill mainly focus on giving the 
reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Mr J has a number of credit card accounts with Santander. In March 2020, Mr J experienced 
a change in his financial circumstances. He was put on furlough leave because of the impact 
of the COVID-19 pandemic. Santander agreed a reduced repayment plan with Mr J.
 
Mr J requested a COVID-19 payment deferral but this was declined by Santander, following 
an income and expenditure assessment in March 2021. Santander later applied restrictions 
on Mr Js accounts to prevent further arrears building up.
Mr J raised a complaint with Santander about the support held been offered and the 
restrictions applied. They didnt uphold the crux of his complaint, but did accept that they 
didnt contact Mr J before closing his complaint. He referred it to our Service for an 
independent review. Our investigator recommended that the complaint not be upheld and as 
Mr J didnt accept this, his complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Similarly, I wont comment 
on every interaction between both parties here  only the key ones. However, Ive given 
careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Since the complaint was referred to our Service a number of the accounts this complaint 
relates to have been recorded as defaulted. Mr J has let us know hes unhappy about this. 
But as our investigator has explained, under the relevant DISP rules, Santander has to first 
have an opportunity to investigate a complaint before our Service can consider and 
investigate it. My decision will only address those points raised with Santander and 
addressed in their final response letter dated 25 June 2021. Should Mr J remain unhappy 
about other or new issues - he first needs to let Santander know.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Santander have treated Mr J in a positive and 
supportive way when he experienced financial difficulties. Ive included some examples 
below:
They agreed a reduced repayment plan to cover all of his accounts and suspended 
interest and fees whilst he experienced financial difficulties,
In December 2020 when Mr J contacted Santander to let them know he was still 
struggling financially they refunded £42.49, 
They undertook an assessment of his affordability to determine what support was 
most appropriate,
In February 2021 Santander advised Mr J to apply online for a COVID-19 payment 
deferral and they refunded £12 as a gesture of goodwill,
In March 2021 when Mr J let Santander know he was still struggling financially, they 
agreed another reduced repayment plan (took effect in April 2021) for all 4 credit card 
accounts, for a number of months and refunded further amounts as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
Whilst Mr J feels that not approving a COVID-19 payment deferral was unfair, I disagree. I 
find that Santander made a reasonable effort to try and best support Mr J and it wasnt 
unreasonable to decline the request. Under a payment deferral arrangement, interest would 
continue to build up on the accounts and based on what Ive seen, I dont conclude that this 
was the best option for him - given Mr Js financial circumstances at that time. 
Ive also considered the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) tailored support guidance 
which was in place at the time. Further information is available on the FCAs website, but for 
reference, the following extracts are relevant here:
5.4. We expect firms to be flexible and employ a full range of short and long-term 
forbearance options to support their customers and minimise avoidable financial 
distress, stress and anxiety experienced by customers in financial difficulty. This may 
include short term arrangements under which the firm permits the customer to make 
no or reduced payments for a specified period
5.6. We want firms to deliver the following outcomes:
Firms have due regard to the interests of their customers and treat them 
fairly.
Customers are treated with forbearance and due consideration. 
Customers are given sustainable arrangements, taking into account their 
other debts and essential living costs, which give them reasonable time and 
opportunity to repay their debt. 
Customers are not pressurised into repaying their debt within an 
unreasonably short period of time. 
Customers are protected from escalating debt once they have entered in to a 
forbearance arrangement with a firm based on what they can afford to pay.
For conciseness, I wont quote all relevant parts - but in summary, I find that Santander have 
acted fairly, reasonably and in Mr Js best interests when offering tailored and appropriate 
support. As our investigator has pointed out, there were some issues with Santander setting 
up the repayment plan arrangement but Im satisfied that overall, this doesnt affect the 
outcome in this complaint or end result for Mr J.
 
As Mr J unfortunately broke the arrangement shortly afterwards (due to an unexpected 
expense), it follows that it was fair, reasonable and proportionate that Santander would limit 
access to his accounts to prevent further arrears building up. I acknowledge my decision will disappoint Mr J, but it brings to an end our Services 
involvement in trying to informally resolve this dispute between him and Santander.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman