DRN-2214398
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about how The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) used part of the 
compensation it offered to settle his complaint about a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out with a credit card to settle the outstanding arrears on that card account. 
Mr H thinks RBS should have paid all the compensation it offered directly to him.
What happened
In 2019, Mr H complained to RBS about a PPI policy it had sold him attached to a MINT 
credit card account. 
RBS responded to Mr Hs complaint in a letter dated 18th November 2019, accepting that the 
policy had been mis-sold and offering him £26,801.27 (net of tax) in compensation for this. In 
that letter RBS stated that payment of the offer was subject to clearance of any arrears 
you may have with the Group.
On 25th November 2019, Mr Hs signed offer acceptance form was returned to RBS. This 
form included the following wording: I understand that the offer will take into consideration 
any arrears on my credit card balance.
Following Mr Hs confirmation of his acceptance of the offer, RBS wrote to Mr H again on 
14th January 2020. In this letter RBS confirmed that its original offer figure had now been 
updated to include the additional statutory interest which had accrued since its original offer 
was made. The revised amount was for £26,915.72 (net of tax). In this letter RBS included 
the following two paragraphs:
As advised in our previous letter all payments are subject to clearance of any arrears you may 
have with MINT. We have identified you have arrears, therefore the above refund has been 
passed to our arrears department, Debt Management Operations (DMO), for processing. 
There is an outstanding balance of £11,163.46 on the MINT credit card. Therefore, £26,915.72 
has been applied to this and once processed, the remaining balance of £15,752.26 will be issued 
to you by cheque directly from DMO.
I understand that Mr H has since received a payment from RBS for the £15,752.26 referred 
to in this letter.
But Mr H wasnt happy with the fact that RBS had used £11,163.46 of his compensation to 
pay off arrears which it said remained outstanding on his credit card account and he 
complained to RBS about this. 
In a letter sent to Mr H on 18th February 2020, RBS responded to Mr Hs complaint, restating 
its view that it had the legal right to offset the amount that remained in arrears on the card 
account from the offer it had made him for the mis-sale of a PPI policy attached to the same 
account.
Mr H still thought that RBS should have paid the full amount of its PPI offer to him directly. 
So he referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt think that RBS had done anything wrong in using part of the 
compensation offer to pay the arrears on Mr Hs credit card account. So he didnt think 
Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicators view, so the 
case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS has accepted it mis-sold the PPI policy to Mr H and agreed to compensate him for this. 
So, in this decision, I shall not be addressing the issue of how the PPI policy came to be sold 
to Mr H. It also doesnt appear as if Mr H is complaining about how the total compensation 
figure (net of tax) was calculated by RBS. So I havent looked at these detailed calculations 
either. In this decision I will only be considering whether RBS should have paid all the 
compensation it offered Mr H to settle his complaint directly to him.
In this case, I consider the most relevant law to take account of is the equitable right to set 
off. This allows, in certain circumstances, an individual (or organisation) to set-off closely 
connected debts. This means one person (A) can deduct from a debt they owe another 
person (B), money which that person (B) owes to them. 
For this right of set-off to apply in this case, I must be satisfied that there is a close 
connection between the PPI compensation and any outstanding debt. I must also consider 
whether it would be unjust not to allow RBS to set-off in this way. Both tests must be 
satisfied for me to find that RBS has an equitable right to set-off some of the PPI 
compensation offered to Mr H against his outstanding debt on his credit card account.
RBS has provided a monthly statement summary for the period from 2001 to 2020. And I 
can see that there was an arrears balance of £11,163.46 showing on this summary from 
July 2013 until February 2020, when Mr Hs PPI offer was used, in part, to bring this balance 
to zero. So Im satisfied from what Ive seen that there remained an outstanding arrears 
balance of £11,163.46 on Mr Hs card account at the time RBS made its PPI compensation 
offer to him. And the fact that RBS does not appear to have pursued Mr H for repayment of 
this debt in recent years - and may not now be able to do so - doesnt mean that this 
outstanding debt doesnt exist.
Im also satisfied from what Ive seen that the PPI policy which is the subject of this 
complaint was directly connected to Mr Hs credit card. So, in considering the right of set-off I 
have outlined above, I have concluded that the PPI compensation and the credit card debt 
are closely connected. They are both for the same account of Mr H with RBS.
Having decided there is a close connection, I need to think about whether it would be unjust 
not to allow RBS to set off in this way. 
As I have already identified, the offer acceptance form which Mr H signed included the 
statement: I understand that the offer will take into consideration any arrears on my credit 
card balance. And it went on to say: The remaining balance, if any, will then be paid to me 
by cheque. I am aware that it is possible for the credit card account to remain in arrears if the 
offer is not sufficient to clear the full amount owing on my credit card. So I think RBS made it clear to Mr H that if he still had arrears on his credit card account 
which hed never paid back to it, this would be taken into account in determining the amount 
of compensation, if any, paid directly to him for the PPI mis-sale. And I think Mr H is likely to 
have known that there was an amount hed owed on his credit card that hed never paid 
back, even if he now thought RBS wouldnt be able to ask him to do so.
RBS has also said that its customer care team contacted Mr H on 13th January 2020 
because hed previously said he was in financial hardship. RBS says Mr H told the team he 
was in arrears with his mortgage by around £6,500 and therefore the surplus payment would 
be sufficient to clear this arrears. RBS says Mr H confirmed he was, therefore, happy for it to 
go ahead and complete the settlement in line with the Bank's right of set-off.
Ive no particular reason to doubt what RBS has said about this call. But I accept it may not 
be an entirely full and accurate record of the discussion which took place then. But I dont 
think Ive got any real reason to think that the off-setting of some of Mr Hs compensation 
would have caused him severe financial difficulties. And Mr H would still have been left with 
a payment of £15,752.26 to put towards any other arrears on debt which he was required to 
repay.
So, in summary and from the information and evidence Ive seen, I think it was reasonable 
for RBS to apply the equitable right to set off. The PPI policy and the credit card debt were 
closely associated and I consider that it would be unjust not to allow RBS to set-off in this 
way. Mr H owed money to RBS on his card account that hed never repaid, including some 
of the PPI which he was charged for. In these circumstances, it would seem evidently unfair 
if RBS were required to refund all the money he was charged for PPI, some of which was 
never actually paid to RBS in the first place.
Ive thought carefully about the reasons Mr H gave for thinking that the adjudicator was 
wrong not to uphold his complaint. Mr H says that RBS failed to divulge the £11,163.47 
when it made its offer of compensation to him. But I dont think it was under any obligation to 
do so. I think it only needed to make Mr H aware that it would take account of arrears on his 
card account in the compensation he would receive, which I think it did. And even if Mr H 
had been told by RBS the exact amount which would be offset when the offer was made, I 
dont think this would have made any difference. £15,752.26 would still have been the 
amount directly payable to him after set-off.
And I dont think that whether or not RBS is still in a position to legally enforce the amount 
still outstanding on Mr Hs credit card account makes a difference when considering whether 
it is fair for it to offset this amount against some of the compensation otherwise payable to 
him.
So I dont think RBS has done anything wrong in the way it has settled Mr Hs mis-sale 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given Im not upholding this complaint against 
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman