DRN-2609522
The complaint
Mr O complains that Nationwide Building Society recorded an incorrect address for him on 
its systems.
What happened
Mr O says he asked Nationwide for account statements that he needed for a business 
opportunity. He says they didnt arrive and spoke to Nationwide about this. Mr O says he 
was told by Nationwide that it had two addresses for him on its systems and told him that 
was due to his mistake. He says as a result he closed his accounts which included a Help to 
Buy account which he can no longer open elsewhere. Mr O says he has been caused 
significant distress and no amount of compensation can reflect whats taken place and for 
the risk of future problems.
Nationwide says it doesnt know why the address was changed but says it has carried out an 
investigation. Its offered £250 compensation and says it will look at the offer again if Mr O 
were to suffer any financial loss. It also says Mr Os account statements were available to 
view online and no statements were normally sent out.
Mr O brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation offer fair 
and reasonable. The investigator thought Nationwide had tried to find out what took place 
and could not fairly compensate Mr O for something that didnt happen. The investigator 
didnt think Nationwide was responsible for the lost business opportunity and thought it Mr 
Os decision to close his Help to Buy account.
Mr O doesnt accept that view and in summary says someone else may have his personal 
details and that Nationwide suggested he was at fault in a call that it cant provide. He says 
there may be a future impact and says he didnt know he couldnt open a new Help to Buy 
account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Nationwide has offered a fair and 
reasonable compensation amount. I appreciate Mr O will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no doubt here that a mistake was made in the recording of Mr Os address. I cant 
fairly conclude why that took place and Im satisfied that Nationwide has carried out an 
investigation. I appreciate that Mr O believes Nationwide told him the mistake was his fault, 
but that recording hasnt been supplied. In any event Im satisfied that Nationwide does take 
responsibility for the mistake as its offered compensation, and I make clear to Mr O that I 
have not seen any evidence the mistake was caused by him.
The key issue is the level of compensation. I accept Mr O was caused distress and 
inconvenience and felt the need to close his accounts. I also accept that he was concerned 
about his statements potentially being seen by a third party and about the risk of future 
fraud. But I cant fairly order compensation for what may take place and think it unlikely that 
Mr O would suffer any financial loss taking into account the time period since the mistake 
came to light. Im satisfied overall that Nationwides offer of £250 compensation is fair and 
reasonable and fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience Mr O was caused.
I appreciate Mr O felt the need to close his Help to Buy account and didnt realise that he 
couldnt open a new account. But I find that was Mr Os decision and I cant fairly hold 
Nationwide responsible for that and think Mr O ought reasonably to have taken advice on 
that, as the Help to Buy scheme ended in 2019. I also cant fairly hold Nationwide 
responsible for any lost business opportunity Mr O says he missed out on. I say that as I 
have not seen any evidence about that opportunity and in any event Mr Os account 
statements were available online for him to view and download.
I accept Mr O will have unanswered questions about how this mistake was caused. I hope 
Mr O appreciates that is not something this service can answer and its not our role to punish 
a business for these sorts of mistakes. 
Overall, I find Nationwide has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer which doesnt 
appear to have been paid to Mr O. I will leave it to Mr O to decide if he wishes to accept it.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer of £250. Mr Os acceptance of that offer would be in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman