DRN-2370917
The complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a claim made under his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
The events below are a summary of the key points that I find relevant to this complaint.
Mr G was involved in a traffic incident abroad in February 2016. Mr G told AXA about 
the incident and discussed his options which included what he wanted to do about 
repairing the car as it was still abroad.
Around October 2016 it was confirmed in writing that Mr G wouldnt be pursuing a 
claim under the policy, so the matter was recorded as information only. 
A counter claim was raised to AXA by the third party for material damages and 
personal injury. AXA gave instruction to investigate the claim and deal with the third 
party. It eventually proceeded to settle the third partys claim based on advice and on 
a 50/50 liability basis. AXA told Mr G he could reclaim the repair costs or total loss of 
the vehicle upon receipt of proof of invoices. 
Mr G wasnt happy about this and complained to AXA. He said he told AXA he had 
instructed a solicitor abroad to deal with the incident instead of the insurer. Mr G felt 
AXA hadnt settled his claim fairly based on the rule of law applicable to the country 
he had the incident in. Mr G said that he had now received a reduced settlement for 
his car even though he had comprehensive cover. He added that AXAs actions had 
caused his No Claims Discount (NCD) to be affected as the claim was now recorded 
as a fault claim.
AXA told Mr G it wasnt aware hed referred the matter to a foreign solicitor. So it took 
the appropriate action to progress the counter claim and said it had reached a 
settlement which best protected its interest in the matter. AXA said it had based the 
settlement on a police report of the incident and the applicable Civil Code in that 
country. It explained that even though the matter was settled on a 50/50 liability 
basis, it would still show as a fault claim on the policy as Mr G was considered 
partially responsible for the accident.
Mr G didnt accept AXAs response and so he brought his complaint to us.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should not be upheld as 
they found AXA had acted fairly and correctly in representing Mr G to reach a 
settlement for the counter claim. They couldnt find any evidence Mr G told AXA he 
had instructed a solicitor and found AXA had dealt with the claim in line with Mr Gs 
policy terms. They concluded Mr Gs reduced settlement was as a result of his policy 
providing the minimum level of cover outside the UK, which reduced it to third party 
only.  
Mr G doesnt agree. He says his policy is comprehensive and so he should receive 
the full reimbursement for his car. He added that there wasnt a requirement for his 
solicitor to contact AXA directly and as such AXA had interfered in the investigation. 
He strongly believes he wasnt at fault at all for the incident.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
To be able to uphold Mr Gs complaint, I need to decide if AXA acted unreasonably 
based on the information about the claim that was available to it. I wont be deciding 
on matters of liability as that would be an action more suited to the courts. But I will 
consider if AXAs decision to settle the claim in this way was fair and reasonable.
Ive considered the claim notes provided, and I havent seen anything to suggest    
Mr G told AXA he was referring the matter to a foreign solicitor. Rather, AXAs 
contact notes indicate Mr G initially said he wouldnt be making a claim but had also 
discussed his options about the repair of the car. AXAs position at this stage was to 
wait and see what Mr G intended to do about the car repairs and the estimated costs. 
And as it didnt hear back from Mr G for six months it proceeded to settle the claim in 
line with its process. I dont find anything unreasonable in this course of events.
AXA told Mr G that if it had known hed referred the matter to a solicitor, then it would 
have liaised with them directly on the claim. But as it didnt it proceeded to settle on 
the best possible terms with the third party. Having considered everything, I am 
persuaded by AXAs position here. I say this because AXA has directly incurred costs 
for the claim, and if it was aware there may have been an opportunity to recoup these 
costs via an alternative route (i.e. Mr Gs solicitor) then it seems likely it would have 
done so. And Ive not seen anything to explain why Mr Gs solicitor didnt contact 
AXA either. So I find there was reasonable cause for AXA to deal with the claim as it 
was entitled to under Mr Gs policy terms. 
Ive next considered if AXA dealt with the issue of liability fairly. Its important to say 
here that liability for a claim and the level of policy cover are separate issues. AXA 
has confirmed it obtained a copy of the police report from the incident which wasnt 
conclusive about who was at fault. It next applied the relevant Civil Code and 
concluded the most likely outcome from this would be a 50/50 liability. I appreciate 
Mr G feels strongly that AXA have applied the wrong Civil Code to the claim, but Ive 
not seen anything which shows it has reached an unreasonable conclusion here. And 
I find AXAs investigations were sufficient to reach this conclusion.Ive considered Mr Gs comments about his level of cover on the policy and what he 
is entitled to under the comprehensive cover. But the comprehensive cover in his 
policy only applies to incidents within the UK. The policy terms state, Your policy 
also provides the minimum cover you need by law to use your car in: 1. Any country 
which is a member of the European Community. In the circumstances of Mr Gs 
case, the minimum cover for the country he had the incident in is third party only. So 
this means Mr G would only be entitled to reclaim any costs in line with third party 
cover, which wont cover any shortfall or reduced settlement from a 50/50 liability 
claim.
Mr G has said this episode has had an impact on his NCD. As AXA has incurred 
costs in this claim which havent been recovered I find it reasonable for it to be 
recorded as a fault claim. As such I would expect to see this accurately reported and 
it will unfortunately have an effect on Mr Gs NCD.
Whilst I have some sympathy for the situation Mr G found himself in, I find that AXA 
has acted reasonably based on the information it had at the time, so I wont require it 
to do anything further.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman