DRN-2342279
The complaint
Mr D applied for a mortgage with Nationwide Building Society and is unhappy with the 
valuation report that was produced. He says Nationwide has treated him unfairly by basing 
its lending decision on that valuation, and that it should refund his early repayment charge 
(ERC) as he didnt want to use a different lender for the new purchase.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
Nationwide doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement 
that was fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors. Nationwides not accountable for any act (or omission) by the surveyor or the firm 
they work for. 
Nationwide is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider 
complaints against it for things a separate business did (or didnt do). All I can consider 
against Nationwide is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of surveyors, and 
having considered everything Im satisfied it did.
Mr Ds appeal arguments were considered, but the valuation remained unchanged Thats all 
Nationwide can do as the surveyor is the suitably qualified professional and Nationwide is 
entitled to rely on their expertise, advice and opinion.
I understand Mr D is concerned that the surveyor didnt receive the CML pack when they 
visited the site. But the surveyor did have it before they completed their valuation report, so 
that point is moot. How the surveyor obtained it isnt something I can consider in this 
complaint against Nationwide, as that would be a complaint about an act or omission by the 
surveyor which isnt in my remit.
Mr D has referred to it as a phantom survey and said a survey wasnt actually carried out. I 
can reassure him this process is completely normal for new-build properties that are under 
construction (or not started) so isnt at all concerning. Both Nationwide and the surveyor 
would be used to this as its normal for new-build developments to be valued off-plan. The 
valuation was carried out by way of a site visit on 10 January - however brief - and then a 
review of the CML pack and comparable evidence. All that together led to the valuation 
report that was produced on 23 January and that is entirely normal for a property that is 
partly, or yet to be, built.
Nationwide instructed a suitably qualified surveyor, it went through the correct appeals 
process, and it was entitled to rely on its commercial discretion to not instruct or accept a 
second valuation.
Having considered everything I dont think Nationwide needed to do any more. So, while I 
can appreciate that the process may have been frustrating for Mr D, I dont feel I can 
reasonably conclude that this was the fault of Nationwide.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman