DRN-2202271
The complaint
Its agreed in this case that AXA France IARD should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Mrs B says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Mrs B opened a store card account in a shop in 2003. At the same time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy offered protection in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that, as Mrs B 
was working less than 16 hours per week, she wouldve been unable to claim on the primary 
benefits of the policy. So it shouldnt have been sold to her.
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators view. It mainly says that it wants to see evidence of 
Mrs Bs job role and her employer and some further clarification of her claim that she was 
working less than 16 hours per week. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive I need to decide what I think is most likely, 
based on the information I have.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
To be eligible for the cover, the applicant needed be working a minimum of 16 hours per 
week. 
Based on what shes told us, Mrs B didnt meet this requirement, and so wasnt eligible for 
the policy. 
The PPI would have provided very limited benefits to anyone who wasnt working at least 
16 hours per week when they applied for the card. I dont think someone who was working 
less than16 hours per week is likely to have taken the PPI if they had been properly informed 
about the limited benefits the policy offered in those circumstances. 
When Mrs B agreed to the PPI she was entitled to have the main policy features brought to 
her attention. AXA should have given Mrs B enough clear information for her to decide if the 
policy was right for her.
Looking at Mrs Bs particular circumstances, given the significance of the number of hours 
she worked, I think the policy requirement that said work meant at least 16 hours per week 
should have been clearly drawn to Mrs Bs attention.
I dont think that was made clear on the application form Mrs B signed. On the application 
Mrs B completed for her store card theres a section for the applicant to tick to confirm 
employment status. Mrs B has ticked next to where it says: Yes  My partner or myself are 
in permanent employment (minimum 16 hours a week)
I dont know what, if anything, was said to Mrs B about this when she completed the 
application  or if she spotted this wording on the form. The text is in small letters and the 
only highlighted part is the word Yes next to the tick box. 
So I think its reasonable to think Mrs B may well have overlooked this if it wasnt specifically 
drawn to her attention  and the information isnt actually specific to Mrs B as it also covers a 
partner. So I dont think the wording and lay out of what was a very short application form 
wouldve suggested to Mrs B that her limited hours might be an important issue. 
And I dont know what, if anything, was said about this particular policy requirement  or the 
significance of it to someone in Mrs Bs situation. 
So I cant fairly say that Ive seen how AXA gave Mrs B enough clear information about the 
policy to enable her to decide for herself if it offered her worthwhile benefits that she was 
happy to pay for. 
I've taken into account that AXA would like to see more information about Mrs Bs job and 
the hours she worked. Weve checked with Mrs B and she hasnt been able to send us 
anything to show that shes right about this. 
But in my view AXA isnt in a position to say that Mrs B wasnt working the hours she told us. 
Having asked our adjudicator to go back to Mrs B with some further questions, I think its 
significant that Mrs B has consistently told us that she was working just 10 hours per week 
when she took out the PPI. This was her first job after reaching school leaving age. The pay 
shes mentioned seems about right for the type of work and limited hours worked. So I think 
its entirely plausible that she was working only the limited hours shes told us.
I dont think its reasonable to expect Mrs B to be able to produce evidence to support what 
she says about this  and after so long, I wouldnt expect her employer at the time to have 
records going that far back. So the fact that Mrs B hasnt been able to independently 
corroborate what shes told us isnt a fair reason for me not to uphold her complaint.
Ive thought carefully about whats been said, and I think what Mrs B says is persuasive on 
balance. I think its more likely than not that she was working for under 16 hours per week, 
as she says. And so I dont think that she was eligible for the policy. If this had been clearly 
drawn to her attention, I dont think shed have taken it out. 
So thats why Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Putting things right
AXA should put Mrs B in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. A. AXA should find out how much Mrs B would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mrs B owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B. AXA should add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference between what Mrs B 
would have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets 
the refund.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mrs B would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs B paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest 
(at 8% a year) on the extra Mrs B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the 
point when Mrs B would have owed AXA something on her store card.
D. AXA should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs B that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax AXA have taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. AXA France IARD should take the steps to put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman