DRN-1634014
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank, wont refund to 
her the money that she paid for a holiday. 
What happened
Mrs A used her Tesco Bank credit card in April 2019 to pay £440.28 for a holiday that she 
was to take in November 2019. She also paid a foreign exchange fee of £12.10. Before she 
went on the holiday she says that she found out more information about the hotel 
and claimed a refund from Tesco Bank under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
because she said that the hotel had been misrepresented to her.
Tesco Bank said that it had considered her claim under section 75 and the chargeback rules 
but it didn't believe that the hotel had been misrepresented to her. Mrs A wasnt satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She didn't think that 
the hotel had been misrepresented to Mrs A and she thought that Tesco Bank 
had responded fairly to her section 75 claim.
Mrs A has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that she 
still believes that the hotel was falsely advertised and that there was pressure selling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold Mrs As complaint about 
Tesco Bank, I must be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the booking company (on which Mrs A relied before entering into the contract) and that 
Tesco Bank's response to her claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable. Im not 
determining the outcome of Mrs As claim under section 75 as only a court would be able to 
do that.
Mrs A says that the hotel was misrepresented to her because it was advertised as being 
"beachfront", she wasn't told that it was near to nightclubs and she's seen it referred to as 
"adult themed" with a nudist pool. She also says that she was pressurised into buying the 
holiday.
I can understand Mrs A's concern that the hotel isn't beachfront as advertised. But the 
information about the hotel also says that it's across the road from the beach and that's 
within the definition of "beachfront" that is used by the booking company. If the location of 
the hotel was so important to Mrs A that she wouldn't have booked it if it wasn't in a location that was acceptable to her, I consider that it would be reasonable to expect her to have done 
more to check the location of the hotel before she booked it. 
I consider that the booking company provided information about the surrounding area which 
showed that the hotel was close to bars and I've not seen any evidence to show that any 
incorrect information about the proximity of the hotel to bars and nightclubs was given to Mrs 
A by the booking company. I'm not persuaded that there's enough evidence to show that the 
location of the hotel was misrepresented to Mrs A.
Mrs A says that she's seen the hotel referred to as"adult themed" with a nudist pool. The 
hotel says that nudity at the hotel is prohibited and I'm not persuaded that there's enough 
evidence to show that the hotel was misrepresented to her.
She also says that she was pressurised into buying the holiday. But I don't consider that 
she's provided enough evidence to show that the booking company acted inappropriately in 
its dealings with her.
Opinions on the quality of a hotel can be very subjective and after she'd booked the hotel 
Mrs A clearly felt that it wasn't suitable for her. I sympathise with her for that but I don't 
consider that the hotel was misrepresented to her or that Tesco Bank's response to her 
claim under section 75 and the chargeback rules was unfair or unreasonable. 
So I find that it wouldn't be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Tesco Bank to refund to Mrs A any of the money that she paid for the holiday - or to take any 
other action in response to her complaint. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs A's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman