DRN-3565702
The complaint
Mrs P complains that a kitchen she obtained through a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) was not 
installed to a satisfactory quality. She also complains she was forced to sign the paperwork 
and that she hasnt been fully refunded for the cost of the report she obtained.
The complaint is brought on her behalf by her daughter who acts under a power of attorney 
for her mother. For ease, I will refer to everything as if its been said and done by Mrs P.
What happened
Mrs P financed a new kitchen and installation through a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF. 
She complained to the supplier that she wasnt happy with the installation. When it didnt 
resolve her complaint to her satisfaction, she referred it to BPF.
The supplier inspected the kitchen in July 2019 and agreed to various repairs. But Mrs P 
didnt want any further involvement with the supplier. BPF said she should obtain two quotes 
from her choice of suppliers for it to consider. She said she would prefer a reduction in cost.
The supplier offered to refund £2,500 which Mrs P rejected. She asked for the finance to be 
written off. BPF didnt agree as the kitchen was fully functioning. Mrs P arranged and paid for 
her own report to be carried out, which concluded the installation was of poor quality. But it 
also covered matters which werent included in the supply and installation contract. So BPF 
arranged for the Furniture and Home Improvement Ombudsman (FHIO) to carry out an 
independent inspection covering the matters set out in the contract. Its report concluded that 
there were several items which needed to be rectified. The supplier offered to refund the 
installation costs in full - £3,820.66.
Mrs P referred her complaint to this service, saying the contract hadnt been complied with 
and there was a lengthy list of matters to be resolved. She wanted BPF to fully comply with 
the findings of the FHIO report.
Our investigator concluded that BPFs offer to either refund the installation costs of 
£3,820.66 or arrange for the repairs listed in the FHIO report to be carried out, was fair and 
reasonable. BPF had also paid her £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused; £50 to 
apologise for the language used in response to her claim; £15 for the cost of a chimney hood 
duct; and £500 towards the cost of the report Mrs P obtained. Our investigator thought this 
was fair. He also thought it was fair BPF had activated the finance because the kitchen was 
fully functioning. And that it was reasonable for BPF to require Mrs P to obtain two quotes if 
she didnt want the supplier to carry out the remedial repairs.
Mrs P didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me. 
My provisional decision
I agreed with the conclusions of the investigator, but I set my findings out in a provisional 
decision to give Mrs P a last opportunity to decide which offer she preferred  a refund or 
repair, or to reject both.
I said:
Under section 75, if theres been a breach of contract by the retailer, Mrs P also has, 
subject to certain conditions, the right to make a claim against BPF, as the finance 
provider, for the breach. My role isnt to decide whether or not section 75 applies 
here. Rather, Im required to decide what, if anything, BPF should do to resolve this 
complaint. When taking into account whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take 
into account (amongst other things) any relevant law. Relevant law includes section 
75.
Relevant law also includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA applies 
to contracts which supply goods and services to a consumer. It says that, under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory, fit for purpose and as described. And that under a contract to supply 
services, (in this case the fitting of the kitchen) the work must be carried out with 
reasonable care and skill. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods 
would need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory, considering any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances.
Was the kitchen of satisfactory quality and has it been fitted with reasonable care and 
skill?
The contract was for the supply and fitting of the kitchen. Im satisfied both parties 
agree that the kitchen wasnt fitted with reasonable care and skill and there are a 
number of items, listed in the FHIO report, which need rectifying. When Mrs P 
referred her complaint to us, she said she wanted the items listed in the FHIO report 
fixing. Im satisfied BPF has offered to pay for this  either by arranging for the 
supplier to carry out the repairs, or through a supplier chosen by Mrs P provided she 
obtain two estimates for the work.
But, as an alternative, it has offered to refund the installation costs of £3,820.66. 
Taking into account the one quote Mrs P has been able to obtain, this would cover 
the cost of the required repairs. Im satisfied this would put her back in the position 
shed be in if the kitchen had been fitted to a satisfactory standard. I appreciate Mrs P 
does not want the original supplier to carry out the work, for understandable reasons, 
and shes having difficulty obtaining the two quotes which BPF reasonably requires. 
So I think the offer to refund the installation costs is the preferable resolution here. 
Mrs P should make it clear which of the two alternative offers, if any, she wants to 
accept in response to this provisional decision.
I note BPF has already paid Mrs P £15 to reimburse her for the cost of a chimney 
hood duct kit.
The independent report
Mrs P arranged her own independent report. I can see BPF tried, unsuccessfully, to 
find out a bit more about the report Mrs P was arranging. I dont find that BPF 
advised Mrs P to arrange for the report or agreed to pay for it. But, bearing in mind her relationship with the supplier had broken down, I dont find it unreasonable that 
she didnt have much trust in the outcome of its own inspection. It doesnt seem 
unreasonable that an independent inspection should have taken place and I think 
BPF should pay for this in full. We contacted BPF to ask it to reconsider this and it 
has now agreed to pay for the cost of the report. Its already paid £500, so its agreed 
to pay Mrs P a further £260.
Damage to the property
Mrs P has mentioned damage to the property, and damage caused by a leak, on 
several occasions. Shes been asked to provide evidence but hasnt provided any. In 
the absence of any evidence, Im not persuaded BPF needs to compensate Mrs P for 
any damage.
The finance agreement
Im satisfied that the fixed sum loan agreement was electronically signed by Mrs P. 
Im not persuaded that she was forced to sign the paperwork and shes not provided 
any evidence to support this part of her complaint.
The agreement says:
After we have accepted and signed the agreement and you have received the goods 
or services purchased, we will pay the loan amount to the retailer.
And that:
Your first repayment date is one month from the date that we pay the loan to the 
retailer.
The loan was for the supply and fitting of the kitchen. Whilst the fitting wasnt 
completed to a satisfactory standard, it was supplied and fitted by around July 2019. 
The items which needed addressing did not affect the functioning of the kitchen. So I 
think its fair that BPF activated the agreement when it did  in October 2019  and 
that Mrs P was liable under the terms and conditions to make the monthly payments 
from November 2019.
Distress and inconvenience
This has clearly been a stressful experience for Mrs P. She should reasonably have 
expected her new kitchen to be fitted with minimal issues. I have considered the 
circumstances here very carefully and want to assure Mrs P that I have understood 
her vulnerabilities and how that may have increased the upset she was caused. BPF 
paid her £250 and Im satisfied that is a fair amount in all the circumstances here.
I am also mindful of Mrs Ps attorneys personal circumstances and I want to thank 
her for sharing some sensitive information with us, which cant have been easy and 
Im sorry for the difficult time shes going through. But it is Mrs P, rather than her 
attorney, who is the eligible complainant here. My role requires me to follow the rules 
set out for this service by the Financial Conduct Authority and this means I can only 
order BPF to pay compensation to Mrs P, as the eligible complainant. So, whilst I 
appreciate the distress this situation has caused Mrs Ps attorney, I cant order BPF 
to pay her any compensation.
BPFs recordsMrs P is concerned that BPF has recorded inaccurate information about her. BPF 
explained it has noted that it has been told Mrs P is a vulnerable customer. It asked 
for information to evidence her vulnerabilities, but it hasnt received this. So, in the 
circumstances, I dont think its unreasonable that her account has been flagged as 
unconfirmed vulnerable.
Mrs P said she wanted to accept the offer to refund the installation costs. But she said the 
cost of the independent report should be refunded in full.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P has told us she would like to accept BPFs offer to refund the installation costs.
She says the cost of the independent report should be refunded in full. I agree. Unfortunately 
there was an error in my provisional decision. Barclays needs to pay Mrs P £760 (and not 
£260 as set out in my provisional decision). Barclays has already agreed to pay this amount. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance should:
1. Refund the installation costs of £3,820.66.
2. Pay Mrs P £760, to refund her for the cost of the report she obtained, having already 
paid her £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman