DRN-2538719
The complaint
Mr P says Provident Personal Credit Limited trading at the time as Satsuma irresponsibly
lent to him. Mr P also says he was bombarded with marketing materials, so he was 
encouraged to take out further loans, causing a debt spiral.
What happened
Mr P took out one loan for £150 with Satsuma in August 2019. The loan was due to run for 
six months but Mr P repaid it early on 25 September 2019. His highest contractual 
repayment for the loan was due to be £47.40.
Mr P wants Satsuma to refund the interest he paid and for it to stop texting him encouraging 
him to take out further loans.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that given the loan amount and Mr Ps 
apparent circumstances at the time together with Mr Ps history with the lender, she didnt 
think it wouldve been proportionate to ask for the amount of information needed to show the 
lending was unsustainable. 
She also told Mr P that the marketing correspondence Mr P received was for information 
purposes and we couldnt hold Satsuma responsible for Mr Ps decision to take out further 
lending with other lenders.
Later she also explained that there was no limit on the amount of marketing correspondence 
a business can send. She said consumers have the option to change their marketing 
preferences whenever they want, and Mr P could have opted out. She couldnt fairly say that 
the marketing correspondence sent was the sole reason Mr P took out the loan with the 
other businesses.
After considering this case further we asked Satsuma to provide further details about the 
contact it made with Mr P. Satsuma confirmed it had been in contact with Mr P following his 
complaint about the marketing material he had received and after he had requested that 
Satsuma stopped contacting him in view of his circumstances.
Following further correspondence another adjudicator then said that he didnt think Satsuma 
caused Mr P further detriment as a result of sending marketing correspondence 
notwithstanding Mr Ps request not to send any further emails to him. However, he also said 
that he thought Satsuma had failed to act appropriately and in a timely manner after Mr P 
made Satsuma aware of his circumstances and how this was affecting him. He asked for 
Satsuma to consider an award for trouble and upset.
Initially Satsuma agreed to offer Mr P the sum of £100 which Mr P did not wish to accept. It 
then offered £200. Again, Mr P declined this offer and he asked for the matter to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
            loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
            meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time            
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
            refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
            unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish
whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint. Ive decided to agree with our 
adjudicator and decide that although Satsuma wasnt wrong to give loan 1 to Mr P it did fail 
to act appropriately and in a timely manner when Mr P made Satsuma aware it was having a 
negative impact on his wellbeing. Satsuma has offered to pay Mr P £200 for the trouble and 
upset it caused and I think thats fair. I will explain why.
For loan 1, this was the first loan Satsuma had given to Mr P. I can see Mr P declared
he had an income of £4,501 per month and outgoings of £973 for his mortgage/rent, £700 
for other loans and £359 for other outgoings. This left him with a disposable income of 
£2,421.60 after factoring in the loan repayment of £47.60.Satsuma adjusted these figures based on its checks to better reflect Mr Ps circumstances.
It said the values used were that Mr P had outgoings totalling £3,098.14. This would have 
left Mr P with a disposable income of £1,355.46 after accounting for the monthly repayment 
for loan 1 of £47.60. From Satsumas checks there were no issues of bankruptcy, no county 
court judgments and no debt management plan or a voluntary arrangement in place at the 
time it provided the loan. Overall, the checks Satsuma carried out showed it that it was likely 
Mr P would be in a position to afford the repayments he was committed to making. 
So, for this loan I think its checks were proportionate  I dont think it needed to verify what 
Mr P was saying or look further into his situation. From the information it received I think that 
Satsuma would have likely thought this loan was affordable. So, I cant say it was unfair for 
Satsuma to provide this loan to Mr P. 
I have next thought about what Mr P has said about being bombarded with correspondence 
from other companies associated with Satsuma, trying to tempt him into taking out further 
loans he could not afford, which affected his health and caused spiralling debt.
I am very sorry to hear about Mr Ps poor health and the troubles hes experiencing. I want to 
be clear that I am looking at Mr Ps loan with Satsuma only, so if Mr P had any other loans 
with any other company as part of the Provident group, he will need to address his concerns 
directly with that company. 
Notwithstanding what I have said above I can see that Mr P contacted Satsuma about his 
complaint on 8 November 2019 and explained that he was suffering with his health and he 
wanted Satsuma to refund the interest he had paid, stop texting him and acknowledge that it 
should not have kept tempting him to take out new loans therefore affecting his credit file. It 
seems that Mr P had complained about the marketing material he was receiving, he asked 
Satsuma to stop sending it and made Satsuma aware of his medical condition at the time. 
Following Mr Ps complaint Satsuma contacted Mr P to tell him his complaint was being 
looked into. 
Satsuma provided us with a list of correspondence it sent to Mr P. It seems notwithstanding 
Mr Ps request to stop sending marketing material Satsuma continued to send him 
correspondence on nine further occasions between 13 November 2019 and 8 January 2020. 
This happened after he had made his complaint and it was acknowledged.
Overall, I agree with our adjudicator that Satsuma failed to act in an appropriate and timely 
manner after Mr P made Satsuma aware of his situation. Satsuma offered to pay £200  Mr 
P has declined this sum but looking at everything I think this sum is fair and Ive decided not 
to ask Satsuma to repay any further amount. 
As it happened Mr P only took out one loan with Satsuma for a short period. I can see Mr P 
did tell Satsuma about his health condition after the repayment of this loan was made. As 
Ive explained I think Satsumas offer to pay a sum of £200 for the distress the further 
correspondence caused is fair. To reassure Mr P I dont think much interest was paid on this 
small loan and his credit file would not show any adverse information as he repaid the loan 
early.
I would also remind Satsuma not to send any more text messages to Mr P unless he is 
agreeable.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I dont uphold this complaint about irresponsible lending for 
this loan, but I ask Satsuma to send Mr P a payment to Mr P for £200 if it hasnt already 
done so.My final decision
 For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about irresponsible lending 
but Provident Personal Credit Limited should send a payment of £200 to Mr P if it hasnt 
already done so in respect of any trouble and upset it caused when it sent further marketing 
correspondence against Mr Ps wishes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman