DRN-2910301
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC declined his application for a business account  
which meant he couldnt then apply for a Bounce Back Loan. 
What happened
Mr A had an existing personal account with Lloyds which he had also been using for his 
business transactions as a taxi driver for several years. In June 2020, Mr A decided he 
wanted to apply for a Bounce Back Loan, so he approached Lloyds to make an application. 
Lloyds required their customers to have a business account before they were offered a 
Bounce Back Loan. And at the time of Mr As application, the bank was only opening 
business accounts for customers who would meet the Bounce Back Loan Scheme eligibility 
criteria. 
Mr A applied to the bank for the business account. However, in early July, the account 
application was declined by Lloyds who said Mr A didnt meet the eligibility criteria for a 
Bounce Back Loan under the Scheme rules. 
Mr A was unhappy with this decision and complained to Lloyds. He thought he met the 
eligibility criteria and hed also been told by his Bank Manager hed be eligible for a Bounce 
Back Loan. 
Lloyds upheld the complaint in part. The bank said theyd looked at Mr As application again 
but couldnt see there was sufficient business turnover for him to meet the minimum £8,000 
turnover eligibility requirement under the Scheme rules. Lloyds also said the types of credits 
coming through Mr As account werent consistent with his type of business. 
So the bank said Mr A still didnt meet the eligibility criteria for a Bounce Back Loan, so they 
couldnt open a business account for him at that time. However, Lloyds said they were sorry 
Mr A had been given incorrect information about his eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan and 
paid him £50 compensation.
Mr A remained unhappy, as he still felt he met the eligibility criteria under the Scheme rules. 
So he asked this service to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She thought it was 
reasonable that Lloyds had asked Mr A to open a business account with them to obtain a 
Bounce Back Loan. She said that in this case, Lloyds wanted to see sufficient evidence of 
Mr As business activity through his personal account  which was the same as hed 
declared on the loan application  and would meet the minimum turnover requirement under 
the Bounce Back Loan scheme. 
The investigator acknowledged Mr A felt he met the banks criteria, but she said Lloyds 
hadnt been able to see sufficient evidence of his trading. The investigator also explained 
shed asked Lloyds if theyd accept any other supporting information, but the bank had said 
its decision was based on the account a customer said they were trading through, and the 
application only. So based on the evidence shed seen, she felt the banks decision to 
decline Mr As application was reasonable.
Mr A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Although the Bounce Back Loan Scheme is a government backed scheme, lenders had 
some discretion to decide how they would accept applications, both from new and existing 
customers. And while it was not a requirement of the Scheme that customers applying under 
the Scheme had a business relationship, lenders were entitled to require one. So it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to require Mr A to open a business account before it would consider 
an application from him for a Bounce Back Loan.
Lloyds have explained that as part of their business account opening criteria, they needed to 
see the personal account was being used in a manner consistent for a business account. 
The bank also needed to see that the turnover amount declared on the business account 
application borne out in the account transactions  and in a manner consistent with the type 
of business applying for the account. 
Under the Scheme there were specific criteria that a business needed to meet before they 
could apply for a Bounce Back Loan  which included carrying on business on 1 March 2020 
and maximum permitted borrowing from between £2,000 and 25% of their turnover to a 
maximum of £50,000. 
I think its reasonable that Lloyds wanted to check this information before proceeding with 
the account application to ensure Mr A would be eligible for a Bounce Back Loan. I say this 
because due to the specific circumstances at the time, the bank was only opening new 
business accounts for customers who were eligible for a Bounce Back Loan which was 
different to how Lloyds would normally assess a new business account application.   
When Mr A initially applied for the account, he said his estimated annual turnover was 
£38,000 but Lloyds werent able to see sufficient evidence of this amount going through his 
personal account. Mr A has told us that because he is a taxi driver, he generally gets paid in 
cash which he deposits on a weekly basis. He feels its unfair they havent taken this into 
account. Mr A has provided evidence of his taxi leasing, and I can see some cash payments 
and infrequent card payments  which Mr A has explained are from his taxi customers. 
But Ive looked at Mr As bank statements and the credits to Mr As account from his 
business are inconsistent and dont total either the £38,000 figure he declared, or the 
minimum £8,000 turnover required to be eligible for a Bounce Back Loan. Whilst there are 
other types of credit being received into Mr As account, these arent linked to his business 
and therefore wouldnt be eligible to use towards Mr As annual turnover figure. So based on 
what Ive seen, I think Lloyds decision was reasonable.  
Mr A has told us hes unhappy he was given incorrect information by Lloyds about the likely 
application acceptance. But were not here to fine or punish a businesss mistake and Ive 
seen that Lloyds have apologised for giving Mr A incorrect information and paid him £50 compensation for the inconvenience he was caused. So Im satisfied Lloyds have done 
enough here to put things right.
I recognise that Mr A feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. But 
based on everything Ive seen, I think Lloyds have acted reasonably. So, I wont be asking 
them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman