DRN-2203671
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr K complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as 
Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs A and Mr K bought a regular premium MPPI policy in January 1991 alongside a 
mortgage. The policy covered Mrs A only against unemployment, accidents and sickness.
Mrs A and Mr K say they were led to believe the MPPI policy was part of the package 
offered with the mortgage and needed to secure the finance. They say they both had full 
time employment cover and this would have been known to the bank at the time. They say 
they were mis-sold the MPPI policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs A and Mr Ks complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs A and Mr Ks case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Mrs A and Mr Ks complaint because of the following reasons:
Mrs A and Mr K say they were led to believe they had to have the MPPI policy.
I acknowledge what Mrs A and Mr K have said about this. I cant be sure exactly 
what was discussed between Mrs A and Mr K and Lloyds when the policy was sold. 
Im also mindful that the sale took place many years ago, and that detailed 
recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Lloyds hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. Thats 
not surprising either given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases 
Ive seen. 
Without anything else to support what Mrs A and Mr K have told me and based on 
what I know of sales conducted by Lloyds during that time, I cant safely conclude 
that Lloyds didnt make them aware of the policy or that it was optional and that they 
chose to have it. 
Moving on, Lloyds has said it recommended the MPPI to Mrs A and Mr K during the 
meeting and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed 
that this was the case. So, as it did recommend the policy to Mrs A and Mr K, it had 
to ensure during the sale that the policy was suitable for Mrs As needs as the policy 
holder. 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mrs A based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs A 
says she would have been able to use at least 12 months sick pay. But the MPPI 
policy would have paid in addition to any provisions she would have had and more 
likely for longer (in the case of a claim for an accident or sickness up to 24 months a 
claim). So, the benefit would have been of use to Mrs A during a difficult time as she 
could have used his provisions to pay for other expenses. I think, on balance, Mrs A 
had a need for this cover at the date of sale, for any extended period of need. I also 
couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting term that would make 
the policy unsuitable for her either.
Lloyds has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy that 
Mrs A and Mr K took out but even though it has provided information detailing how 
much it cost it hasnt provided details on the benefit provided and I cannot be sure 
that the costs were disclosed to Mrs A and Mr K in a clear and fair way at the time of 
sale either. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly, I dont think Mrs A and Mr 
K would have done anything different and decided against having the policy for the 
reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs A and Mr K wouldve been affected by any of these.
In conclusion, although I know it will come as a disappointment, I do not uphold Mrs A 
and Mr Ks complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs A and Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman