DRN-3989683
The complaint
Mr T complains that ETU Forsikring A/S deducted the £210 out of hours fee from the cost of 
his dogs treatment when he made a claim. He believes they should cover this, as the 
emergency vet told him his dog needed to be seen.
What happened
Mr T had insurance for his dog with ETU. In January 2022 the dog fractured his leg and 
required treatment. The dog was seen by a vet outside normal surgery hours, and the vets 
fees of £728.41, included an out of hours fee of £210. ETU paid Mr Ts claim but deducted 
the out of hours fee and his policy excess of £99, so he received £419.41.
Mr T contacted ETU as he wasnt happy that they hadnt covered the out of hours fee. ETU 
dealt with this as a formal complaint.
ETU didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. In their final response letter they referred him to what 
his policy says about the cover provided in respect of veterinary fees. The relevant term is: -
SECTION 1A  VETERINARY FEES
What You Are Not Covered For:
In addition to the General Exclusions of the Policy, the Insurer shall not be responsible for:
17. Extra costs for treating Your Pet outside usual surgery hours, unless the Vet confirms 
that the condition in life threatening.
ETU said that after Mr T submitted his claim, they contacted his vet for further comments, 
and the vet said his dog needed to be seen but his condition wasnt life threatening. They 
acknowledged that the vet had told them that if the dog hadnt been seen, this would have 
been a risk to his welfare.
Mr T wasnt happy with ETUs response and complained to our service. Our investigator 
considered the case but didnt uphold the complaint. She said she understood that Mr Ts 
dog had been injured and had needed to be seen out of hours by an emergency vet. But Mr 
Ts policy clearly stated that out of hours fees were only covered if his dogs condition was 
life-threatening. And as the treating vet had confirmed that it wasnt, she couldnt ask ETU to 
cover the out of hours fee.
Mr T didnt accept our investigators opinion. He said hed tried to get advice from ETU 
before attending the emergency vet. But they didnt have a 24-hour helpline manned by 
veterinary staff. So as his dog was clearly in pain and showing abnormal behaviour, hed 
taken the advice of the emergency vet that he needed to be seen.
He asked whether we thought it reasonable for ETU not to provide a 24-hour helpline. Our 
investigator responded to this saying that its outside our remit to comment on how ETU 
operate their business.
Mr T also asked whether we think its reasonable for a customer to have to use a magnifying 
glass to scrutinise small print, which he considers to be a Get out clause. And hes said 
that if he hadnt taken his dog to the emergency vet, and hed died overnight due to pain and 
shock, he thinks ETU wouldnt have paid the policy death benefit as he hadnt followed the 
vets advice.
And he told us hes now changed his dogs cover to another insurer who provides a 24-hour 
helpline manned by veterinary staff.
The case has now come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by saying that I understand and accept, that by taking his dog to an 
emergency out of hours vet when he was injured, Mr T was doing what was best for the dog. 
And I also understand that hes annoyed and frustrated that ETU have deducted the out of 
hours fee from his claim.
But the terms and conditions of the policy do say that out of hours vets fees are only 
covered if the condition a pet is seen for is life threatening. 
When ETU received Mr Ts claim they contacted the vet for further details of the treatment 
theyd provided. And twice the vet confirmed the dogs condition wasnt life threatening. 
Although as Mr T has told us they confirmed the dog needed to be seen. 
As our investigator told Mr T its not our role to tell businesses how they should operate. So I 
cant comment on ETU not providing a 24-hour advice helpline. Or whether if hed been able 
to speak to a helpline, this would have changed the steps that Mr T took. But Im pleased to 
hear hes now been able to arrange cover with an insurer that provides a helpline, as this is 
clearly a service he wants.
What I need to consider is what Mr Ts policy says about out of hours fees, whether he was 
made aware of this and did ETU act reasonably when they didnt cover this part of his claim.
The first paragraph of Mr Ts policy says Please take a little time to read and understand 
what We will cover and what We will not cover. So right at the start of the policy theres a 
reminder to read the policy to see what is and isnt covered. 
What is and isnt covered by the policy are significant terms which Id expect to be set out 
clearly and in a way thats easy to understand. Mr T has said that the cover provided for out 
of hours fees is hidden away in small print and a magnifying glass is needed to find it.  
On page six of the policy theres a heading SECTIONS OF COVER. And the first sub-
heading is SECTION 1A  VETERINARY FEES.
This is followed by What You are Covered For: We will pay You up to the limit shown on 
Your Certificate of Insurance for the cost of Veterinary Fees for Veterinary Treatment Your 
Pet has received with the Territorial Limits during the Period on Insurance to treat an Illness 
or Injury.
The following paragraph then states, What You Are Not Covered For: In addition to the 
General exclusions of the Policy, the Insurer shall not be responsible for: Theres then a list 
of whats not covered. This starts with the policy excess at number one. And at number 17 
Extra costs for treating Your Pet outside usual surgery hours, unless the Vet confirms that 
the condition if life threatening.
So I dont agree with Mr T that this condition is hidden away. Its part of a clear list of whats 
not covered by the policy. Mr T may think its unfair that emergency vets out of hours fees arent covered in all circumstances. But I think the policy makes it clear when they will be 
covered. And thats if a pets condition is considered to be life threatening. 
No insurance policy is going to cover every situation that arises. In this case I think ETU 
considered Mr Ts claim fairly. They didnt just assume Mr Ts dogs condition wasnt life 
threatening. They contacted the emergency vet who told them the dog needed to be seen, 
but his condition wasnt life threatening. And it was only after contacting the vet that the 
claim was declined.
I understand why Mr T is concerned about what might have happened if he hadnt taken his 
dog to the emergency vet. But I can only consider what did happen and base my decision on 
that. Its always going to be difficult if a pet is injured outside normal surgery hours, and I 
understand how upsetting this must have been for him. But this doesnt mean I can ask ETU 
to pay something that wasnt covered by his policy. So I wont be asking ETU to cover the 
out of hours vets fee Mr T paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about 
ETU Forsikring A/S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman