DRN-2968503
The complaint
Miss B complains that NewDay Ltd has irresponsibly lent to her.  
What happened
Miss B was accepted for a branded credit card in September 2018 with a credit limit of £500.
In February 2019, the credit limit was increased from £500 to £1,400. Miss B was accepted
for another differently branded credit card in April 2019 with a credit limit of £450. In August
2019, the credit limit on this card was increased from £450 to £1,700 and in January 2020
the credit limit was increased from £1,700 to £3,450.
Miss B complained to NewDay that they had irresponsibly lent to her by accepting her
application for both of these credit cards and by increasing the credit limit on both cards. She
said at the time of being accepted for the first credit card she had a large amount of
outstanding debt which was continually increasing and was significantly more than her
personal income.
NewDay did not uphold Miss Bs complaint. They said they relied on the information Miss B
gave them on her application and information from credit reference agencies. NewDay also
said that they carried out an affordability check. NewDay said that on her first application she
told them she was employed with a gross annual salary of £20,000 with other household
income of £1,284 per month and unsecured debt of £34,500. As she met the acceptance
criteria, they accepted her application with a £500 credit limit as she had no adverse data on
her credit file. NewDay said she had nine accounts showing on her credit file.
In relation to her Aqua credit card, NewDay said that Miss B had declared an income of
£21,500 and unsecured debt of £35,200. As she met the acceptance criteria, they accepted
her application with a £450 credit limit as she had no adverse data on her credit file.
NewDay said Miss B had accepted the credit limits they offered, when she could have
declined them and said that as she had raised concerns about the affordability of the credit
cards they would close them for future spending, but the accounts would stay open for
payments only. Miss B brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator partially upheld Miss Bs complaint. She said that NewDay had not
irresponsibly lent for the first credit card or the credit limit increase on this card, but they
irresponsibly lent to Miss B for accepting Miss Bs application for her Aqua credit card and
the subsequent credit limit increases. She highlighted that £31,492 of the £35,200
unsecured debt Miss B had at the time of the application was on credit cards and this wasnt
sustainable. As part of proportionate checks, our investigator said that NewDay should have
considered looking at her bank statements which would have shown Miss B had a high level
of gambling transactions. She said that NewDay should refund all of the interest and charges
that they had charged Miss B on her Aqua credit card.
NewDay did not agree with our investigator. They asked for the complaint to be reviewed by
an Ombudsman. In summary, they said, that the type of lending they provide does not
require them to ask the consumer for additional evidence of income and affordability, such
as bank statements. They use an affordability model, which is privy to the business and data
provided by the credit reference agencies. NewDay said that there was no evidence that
Miss B had been experiencing financial difficulties with other lenders and had rarely missed
her payments. They said they monitor how she would use her account internally as one
factor when they increase a credit limit and they said they had not irresponsibly lent to her.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to make credit available or increase the credit available to Miss B, NewDay
needed to make proportionate checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and
sustainable for her. Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind
of things I expect lenders to consider include - but are not limited to: the type and amount of
credit, the borrower's income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments,
as well as the consumer's personal circumstances.
In isolation, a £500 initial credit limit on the first card and a £450 initial credit limit on the
Aqua credit card that NewDay offered to Miss B was proportionate compared with her
income alone. But there are other factors which persuade me that further checks shouldve
been made to ensure the credit was affordable and sustainable for her and Ill explain these
below.
Ive looked at what checks NewDay said they did prior to accepting Miss Bs application for
the first credit card. They used information from credit agencies and information from Miss B
and saw that she had several active accounts/cards. NewDay had assessed that Miss B had
unsecured borrowings of £34,500 against income which was declared as £20,000 gross.
This would have been a debt to her own income ratio of 172.5%. In addition, as the majority
of this unsecured debt was in the form of credit cards, Im persuaded the outcome of
NewDays affordability calculations should have raised questions. I say this as the outgoings
which NewDays data shows is monthly accommodation costs of £100 and monthly living
expenses as £800 a month. That only left £384 of available income. But when thats
considered against what she owed elsewhere here, I think NewDay should have realised
that it was likely that most of this available income wouldve been used to repay other debts.
So, this could indicate that the acceptance of the first credit card and subsequent credit limit
increases might not be affordable or sustainable for her in the longer term. As from the
information NewDay had here, it appears that she may not have enough disposable income
to meet her outgoings - as the majority of her income would be spent on servicing her
existing credit card debt, even if only the minimum payments were being made.
As NewDay have said, they are a second chance lender, so they may be able to give credit
to people who have poor credit scores. But if they had asked Miss B for her outgoings as
part of a proportionate check where they knew she already had several unsecured
borrowings and a high degree of indebtedness, then Im persuaded that the bigger picture
wouldve been apparent, and this would have been one reason to prompt them to do further
checks based on the repayment commitments for all of the unsecured borrowings she had.
Miss B hadnt had any defaults or County Court Judgments prior to the acceptance of her
both credit cards. This would suggest that Miss B hadnt had any major issues in maintaining
her payments previously with other providers. But that alone does not show the full picture
here and I think its that which was missing from the assessments. Im persuaded that it
would have been proportionate to the amount and type of credit being borrowed here to
investigate the unsecured debt Miss B had in more detail, along with her outgoings prior toacceptance for both of the credit cards. I say this because if these checks had been made
then it would show that Miss B would be unlikely to be able to service any more unsecured
debt.
So I asked Miss B how she was managing to meet her outgoings around the time she was
accepted for her first account. She said her salary would literally go towards
paying her debt, and then throughout the month she was borrowing again to live off. She's
said she was sometimes having to use her credit cards to pay her catalogue payments. She
also said she often had to borrow from her mother. This led me to ask for her bank
statements so I could see the extent of her situation prior to being accepted for both of the
credit cards. This is something that Im persuaded NewDay should have wanted to see if
they asked for details of her outgoings prior to the acceptance of the credit cards  and each
subsequent credit limit increase. Miss Bs financial situation ultimately got worse as time
went on and so where even the original limits of the cards looked to have been unaffordable,
this would have even more likely looked to have been the case when NewDay increased the
limits here.
There are also other reasons that I think NewDay shouldnt have only proceeded on the
checks they did here. For example, Miss Bs August 2018 bank statement transactions show
in the month before she was accepted for the first credit card, that Miss B had made over
100 gambling transactions on her account. The bank statement also showed six payments
totalling £1,148.74 from a credit provider who acts as an alternative to overdrafts, credit
cards and loans. Miss B also borrowed a total of £173 in seven payments that month from
her mother. Her statements prior to being accepted for the Aqua credit card also shows
multiple gambling/lottery transactions and borrowing from her mother on several occasions,
while NewDays affordability information shows her unsecured borrowings grew to £35,200,
although Miss Bs salary increased to £21,500  this still shows a debt to income ratio of
163.7% when she was accepted for the Aqua credit card.
So Im satisfied from the information Ive seen here that Miss B could not afford her
commitments and when NewDay accepted her for the first credit card and later increased
the limit and accepted her for the Aqua credit card and increased that limit also. In my view,
all of this was unaffordable for Miss B. If NewDay had asked for details of her
outgoings/bank statements as part of a proportionate check when considering her first credit
card application and Aqua applications then Im persuaded they would have seen the
payments would not have been sustainable or affordable and Im satisfied they wouldnt
have accepted her application for either of the credit cards based on someone who was
clearly struggling to meet her commitments and borrowing from a number of sources just to
do so.
So, I intend to ask NewDay to remove all interest and charges applied to both the first and
Aqua accounts and recalculate what (if anything) Miss B owes from the initial amount she
borrowed (taking account of any payments shes made). As Im persuaded that had NewDay
completed further checks which were proportionate to her individual circumstances, they
wouldnt have lent to her. They should also remove any adverse information from Miss Bs
credit file relating to the first credit card and Aqua credit card.  
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. Miss B accepted my provisional decision. NewDay did not accept the provisional 
decision and made a number of points. In summary they attached a copy of their affordability 
paper detailing the type of lending they offer. They also said that when the accounts were 
opened, Miss B had no accounts in arrears, no public records, no defaults, no financial 
difficulty indicators or repayment plans. They also said that the accounts were well 
maintained and they felt they didnt have any reason to believe that the credit limit increases werent sustainable. Newday said there was no indicators that Miss B was experiencing 
financial difficulties with other lenders.
NewDay also said it was unreasonable that Miss B could use their credit cards and the 
Ombudsmans view is that interest should be removed to essentially allow Miss B to make 
interest free spending. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what NewDay have said regarding the checks they had made and the type 
of lender that they are. I addressed this in my provisional decision but I will also copy an 
excerpt of this here. I said NewDay used information from credit agencies and information 
from Miss B and saw that she had several active accounts/cards. NewDay had assessed 
that Miss B had unsecured borrowings of £34,500 against income which was declared as 
£20,000 gross. This would have been a debt to her own income ratio of 172.5%. In addition, 
as the majority of this unsecured debt was in the form of credit cards, Im persuaded the 
outcome of NewDays affordability calculations should have raised questions. I say this as 
the outgoings which NewDays data shows is monthly accommodation costs of £100 and 
monthly living expenses as £800 a month. That only left £384 of available income. But when 
thats considered against what she owed elsewhere here, I think NewDay should have 
realised that it was likely that most of this available income wouldve been used to repay 
other debts.
So, this could indicate that the acceptance of the first credit card and subsequent credit limit
increases might not be affordable or sustainable for her in the longer term. As from the
information NewDay had here, it appears that she may not have enough disposable income
to meet her outgoings - as the majority of her income would be spent on servicing her
existing credit card debt, even if only the minimum payments were being made.
As NewDay have said, they are a second chance lender, so they may be able to give credit
to people who have poor credit scores. But if they had asked Miss B for her outgoings as
part of a proportionate check where they knew she already had several unsecured
borrowings and a high degree of indebtedness, then Im persuaded that the bigger picture
wouldve been apparent, and this would have been one reason to prompt them to do further
checks based on the repayment commitments for all of the unsecured borrowings she had.
I considered what NewDay have said regarding it being unreasonable that Miss B could use 
their credit cards and an Ombudsmans view is that interest should be removed to 
essentially allow her to make interest free spending. But as I mentioned in my provisional 
decision If NewDay had asked for details of her outgoings/bank statements as part of a 
proportionate check when considering her first credit card application and Aqua applications 
then Im persuaded they would have seen the payments would not have been sustainable or 
affordable and Im satisfied they wouldnt have accepted her application for either of the 
credit cards based on someone who was clearly struggling to meet her commitments and 
borrowing from a number of sources just to do so. If the applications werent accepted 
based on her outgoings as part as a proportionate check then Miss B would not have the 
opportunity to have spent anything on NewDays credit cards.
In summary, NewDays response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know NewDay will be
disappointed with the decision, but I hope they understand my reasons.
  Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intended to ask NewDay to remove all interest and 
charges applied to both the first and Aqua accounts and recalculate what (if anything) Miss B 
owes from the initial amount she borrowed (taking account of any payments shes made). As 
Im persuaded that had NewDay completed further checks which were proportionate to her 
individual circumstances, they wouldnt have lent to her. They should also remove any 
adverse information from Miss Bs credit file relating to the first credit card and Aqua credit 
card. Im still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd should:
Refund all interest and charges applied to the accounts from the date the accounts were
opened to the date of any final decision;
If at any period this resulted in Miss Bs accounts being in credit, pay 8 per cent simple 
annual interest on the date that balance arose to the date of settlement; and
Remove any adverse entries on Miss Bs credit file relating to her first credit card and Aqua
credit card.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman