DRN-3314014
The complaint
Mr A complains that Starling Bank Limited wouldnt process a payment he wanted to make 
and closed his account.  
What happened
Mr A had an account with Starling. In November 2020, Mr A tried to make a payment for 
£100 to a third party who I will refer to as B.
 
Starling asked Mr A some questions about the payment. Mr A told Starling that B was his 
neighbour and he was paying him for repairing a leak at his property. Based on what 
Mr A said, Starling decided to stop the payment and asked Mr A to provide evidence to 
support his explanation. Mr A didnt provide anything. Starling then decided to close Mr As 
account. 
Mr A complained to Starling. In response, Starling said it hadnt done anything wrong and 
explained all its transactions are put through routine monitoring and security checks in order 
to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. And were entitled to ask Mr A for more 
information about the transaction. Starling also said it had closed Mr As account in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account. 
Mr A says Starlings asked him too many questions about the payment. And he found them 
intrusive and unnecessary. Hes explained that hes never had any problems making 
payments with other banks and Starling has treated him differently and unfairly. He also 
believes Starling closed his account after he wrote an unfavourable review about the bank 
on a well- known consumer review website. He wants an explanation for why his payment 
was rejected and compensation. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr As complaint.  He said Starling had been complying 
with its legal and regulatory obligations when it decided to review Mr As payment and ask 
him for information. He also said that Starling didnt have to provide Mr A with an explanation 
and had the right to choose who it decided to do business with. Mr A disagreed. He says 
Starling asked him too many questions about the payment and only closed his account 
because he wrote a negative review about the bank.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr A feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats clear from whats hes 
said to us and to Starling. Whilst I appreciate Mr As frustration, its important to point out that 
the only thing in question here is whether Starling has done what it should have done. And I 
think it has. Ill explain why.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Starling has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take certain 
actions in order to meet these obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict 
customers accounts  and ask customers for information about certain transactions. The 
terms and conditions of Mr As account also permit Starling to block a payment and ask a 
customer for information. 
Starling has to have in place security measures and procedures in order to try to safeguard 
its customers accounts and ensure it complies with its legal and regulatory obligations. And 
its not for this service to interfere with these processes. Thats a matter for Starling.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Starling to block Mr As account and ask him about the payment he wanted to make to B. 
Starling has explained that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Im 
satisfied that in doing so Starling were complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
So, whilst I accept,  Starlings actions upset Mr A,  I cant say the bank has treated Mr A 
unfairly. 
I understand that Mr A wants Starling to explain the reason it applied the block to the 
payment and questioned him. But Starling doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a 
review of their accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr A the reasons behind the 
account block, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not 
giving Mr A this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so.
Mr A says Starling asked him too many questions about the payment. Ive looked at the 
communication between Mr A and Starling about the payment. And having looked at the 
evidence , Im satisfied that Starling was within its rights to ask Mr A for more information 
about the payment if it felt it needed further clarification. I also dont consider the questions it 
asked Mr A unreasonable and were in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr A has said hes made similar payments without any problems with other banks. And has 
compared Starlings approach to other businesses where his instructions are followed 
immediately without further security checks being completed or questions being asked. That 
may well be Mr As expectation of Starling, but the bank is entitled to decide how it will 
operate. It follows that I dont agree Mr A was treated unfairly because Starling followed its 
own processes. 
I then turn to Starlings decision to close Mr As account. Its generally for financial 
businesses to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking 
facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service 
wont usually say that they must keep a customer or compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. I know Mr A suspects that Starling closed his account because he 
posted a negative review on a website about his experience with the bank. But Ive not seen 
any evidence to support Mr As suspicion. Rather I can see Starling asked Mr A, to provide 
more information about the payment and he didnt do so. Having looked at all the evidence, 
Im satisfied that Starling acted in line with the account terms when it decided to close Mr As 
account. So, it was entitled to close the account as its already done.  
I appreciate that Starlings decision to no longer offer Mr A its services in the future has 
caused him inconvenience. But Starling can make commercial decisions about who it offers 
services to. They cannot unfairly discriminate against a customer. But they can say they no longer wish to do business with individuals. Thats because theyve got the commercial 
freedom to decide who they want to contract with. And having looked at all the available 
evidence, Im satisfied that Starling has exercised its commercial decision legitimately when 
it decided it no longer wished to do business with Mr A. 
In summary, I realise this decision will be disappointing to Mr A, but Im satisfied that hes 
been provided with a number of opportunities by Starling to provide information about the 
payment he wanted to make to B. So, while I appreciate Starlings actions has caused Mr A 
inconvenience and upset, I dont believe Starling treated him unfairly in taking the actions it 
did when it asked him about the payment and closed his account. So, I wont be asking 
Starling to do anything to resolve Mr As complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Ombudsman