DRN-3116001
The complaint
Ms J complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax unfairly applied an unauthorised 
tenancy interest rate to her mortgage between July 2012 and June 2019. She feels shes 
paid 1.5% more than she should have done during that period and so would like the 
additional amount refunded.
What happened
Ms J has an interest only residential mortgage with Halifax. In 2011, Ms J contacted Halifax 
to change her correspondence address. When asked about the reasons for this, Ms J 
explained that she wanted correspondence to go to her parents address as she didnt feel 
the mailroom in her apartment block was secure. Halifax asked if the mortgaged property 
was being let, and Ms J explained that she was seeking advice about potentially re-
mortgaging to another lender who doesnt require applications for consent-to-let.
Between June 2011 and June 2012 Halifax wrote to Ms J at the updated correspondence 
address on three occasions asking her to contact them. These letters asked Ms J to confirm 
whether she was living in the mortgaged property, or if she was letting it out. Halifax 
explained that if she was letting the property out she needed to apply for consent in 
accordance with the mortgage terms. The letters said that if they didnt hear from her they 
would assume the property was being let without permission. As a result, Halifax would 
apply a 1.5% charge on top of the variable interest rate payable on the mortgage.
Halifax didnt hear from Ms J and so the 1.5% surcharge was applied to the interest rate.
In April 2019 Ms J contacted Halifax and the unauthorised tenancy rate was discussed. She 
complained as she said she wasnt made aware of the surcharge that had been applied. She 
said that Halifax should have tried to contact her using alternative methods such as phone or 
email when they didnt receive a response to the letters.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. They said theyd sent letters to Ms J asking her to 
contact them about the mortgaged property and informing her of the surcharge of 1.5%. 
They said that they didnt use alternative methods of contact at the time, but theyd 
forwarded Ms Js comments to their policy department who will consider whether changes 
should be made. They acknowledged Ms J was given some incorrect information during a 
phone call in June 2019, so they arranged for a refund of £284.35 to be made to the 
account, and paid Ms J £120 for the inconvenience.
Ms J brought her complaint to our service. Halifax didnt give us consent to consider it as 
they said it had been made out of time. An ombudsman decided that we had the power to 
consider Ms Js complaint about the interest charged from June 2013 onwards. He said the 
complaint about what happened in 2012 had been made out of time.
Our investigator considered the part of Ms Js complaint that had been made in time. Having 
done so, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms J disagreed with the outcome, so the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst an ombudsman has decided that we cant consider Ms Js complaint about what 
happened in 2012 as it was made out of time, I have still taken account of the events during 
that period where theyre relevant to the outcome of the complaint I can consider.
Ms J doesnt think it was fair for Halifax to apply the surcharge of 1.5% to the interest rate on 
her mortgage, as they hadnt given her a fair opportunity to avoid the need for such a 
charge. Ms J has confirmed to our service that she was letting the mortgaged property as 
she had re-located for work. Shes also told us that she thought shed told Halifax about this 
at the time in 2012. Ive reviewed the contact notes for the account, and there arent any 
notes to suggest that Ms J had told Halifax she was letting the property, or asked them for 
consent to let it. The call note from 2011 says that Halifax asked Ms J if she was letting her 
property when shed changed her correspondence address. According to the notes, Ms J 
was unwilling to answer the question and explained she was seeking advice about re-
mortgaging to a lender who doesnt require consent-to-let.
 
There is no dispute here that Ms J wasnt living in the mortgaged property, and it was being 
let. Ms Js mortgage was a residential mortgage. And so by letting the property out she was 
in breach of the terms and conditions of the mortgage. Halifaxs policy did allow, in some 
circumstances, a property that acted as security for a residential mortgage to be let for short 
periods. But the borrower needed to obtain Halifaxs consent to be able to do that, which 
was subject to an application. Ms J hadnt applied for consent to let her property, so by 
letting it to tenants she was in breach of the mortgage conditions.
Halifax wrote to Ms J to explain that if she didnt contact them to confirm whether or not she 
was letting the property, they would apply a 1.5% surcharge onto her interest rate. Ms J 
didnt respond to the letters and so the rate was applied. Ms J was in breach of her mortgage 
conditions as she was letting her property without consent. Halifax had lent her a residential 
mortgage, but that wasnt what the property was being used for. Interest rates for buy-to-let 
mortgages were generally more expensive than rates for residential mortgages given the 
additional risks involved.
 
Had Ms J applied for consent to let her property with Halifax, they might have agreed to that. 
But it would only have been in the short term, typically a year, and Ms J would have needed 
to continue to apply each year she wanted to let the property. Alternatively, shed have had 
to re-mortgage to another lender who offered buy-to-let mortgages as that wasnt something 
Halifax offered at the time. Keeping her mortgage as a residential mortgage but letting it out 
on a permanent basis was never an option for Ms J. 
I cant consider Halifaxs initial decision to apply the surcharge in 2012 as that is out of time. 
But based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that from June 2013, the period Im able to 
consider, Halifax were acting fairly when applying the surcharge to Ms Js mortgage. They 
had reasonable grounds to believe she was letting the property, and she hadnt asked for 
consent to do so. As a result of that additional risk, and the fact the mortgage terms were not 
being adhered to, Halifax added a surcharge to the residential rate Ms J was paying. I think 
that was fair in the circumstances.
Ms J has complained that Halifax didnt try and contact her by email or phone to check 
whether the property was being let. Again, I cant consider what Halifax did in 2012. Ive 
thought about whether Halifax should have pro-actively contacted Ms J from June 2013 onwards to see if she was still letting the property out. But I dont think its unreasonable they 
didnt do that.
 
Halifax had written to Ms J on multiple occasions advising her that the surcharge would be 
applied and the reasons for that. They also sent her a mortgage statement each year. These 
statements set out what the standard variable rate (SVR) was which was the rate applicable 
to the mortgage. They also set out an added rate which made the total rate payable 1.5% 
higher than the SVR. Ms J has said she didnt pay much attention to the statements, and in 
any event doesnt think theyre clear enough. Whilst I appreciate what Ms J has said, Im 
satisfied Halifax had given Ms J sufficient information about the interest rate she was paying 
on her mortgage. I dont think its unreasonable they didnt go beyond that by pro-actively 
contacting her regularly to check if the situation had changed. And as I said before  if 
Halifax had attempted to contact Ms J over the phone or via email, she would have either 
had to apply for consent to let the property or re-mortgage on a buy-to-let basis.
 
I understand why Ms J is frustrated as she feels shes paid more than she needed to. But 
considering all the circumstances Im not persuaded that was as a result of unfair treatment 
by Halifax. So whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Ms J, Im not 
recommending they do any more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman