DRN-4391456
The complaint
Mr P complains about the information given by Rock Insurance Services Limited when he 
called to extend the cover provided on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P took out an annual travel insurance policy through Rock and cover started in 
October 2022. Under the policy, Mr P was covered for trips of up to 60 days. 
In January 2023, Mr P was planning to work abroad for six months. He called Rock to extend 
his cover, was told this was fine and paid an additional premium. When his new documents 
arrived, he realised that the policy still didnt cover him fully. Mr P called Rock and was 
advised that they werent able to provide cover to meet his requirements. Mr P raised a 
complaint with Rock.
Rock didnt provide a response to Mr Ps complaint within the required timescale and so 
Mr P asked us to look into the complaint. Mr P wanted a full refund of all his premiums, 
including the initial policy he took out as well as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Whilst the complaint was being investigated, Rock told us that they agreed they hadnt 
provided Mr P with the correct information. They said theyd refunded the additional premium 
Mr P had paid and theyd also offered him compensation equivalent to the cost of the original 
policy plus £4.24 interest for the delay in issuing the refund and £50 to apologise for the 
delay and inconvenience caused.
Mr P wasnt happy with the offer as he felt he should receive more. Our investigator upheld 
Mr Ps complaint and asked Rock to pay an additional £100 compensation. Mr P accepted 
the investigators outcome but we havent had a response from Rock.
As Rock hasnt responded, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators outcome and Ill explain why.
As Rock has confirmed that they didnt provide Mr P with the correct information, this is no 
longer in dispute. I havent looked at this and have solely focused on the redress offered.
Mr P received the incorrect information just three days before he was due to start working 
abroad. This meant he didnt have a lot of time to organise a new policy. Mr P said that this 
was stressful and he spent a large amount of time trying to contact Rock about the issue. 
Hes said that he attempted to call Rock on 15 occasions over those three days. He also 
sent five emails to try to get his refund between February and April.
Whilst I appreciate that Mr P would always have had to spend time finding a new policy had 
the correct information been given, I do think finding out he wasnt covered when he thought 
it had been sorted wouldve caused Mr P unnecessary distress. I also dont think its 
reasonable for it to take 15 phone calls and five emails to try to resolve the issue and get a 
refund. 
In its response to Mr Ps complaint, Rock offered him a total of £134.44 in compensation. 
It hasnt responded to our investigators view which recommended this be increased by a 
further £100. And Mr P has said he thinks a total of £234.44 would resolve the matter for 
him. So, I think it would be fair for Rock to pay Mr P a total of £234.44.
Mr P has since informed us that since Rock refunded the additional premium to him, the 
payment card the refund was paid to is no longer active. Rock should contact Mr P to 
confirm where the additional payment should be paid to.
Putting things right
To put things right, Rock should do as follows:
- Refund the original cost of the policy (£80.20) and
- Pay Mr P £4.24 in interest to compensate him for the delay in refunding the additional 
premium and
- Pay Mr P £150 for distress and inconvenience (including the £50 Rock has already 
offered)
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Rock Insurance Services Limited 
to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Anthony Mullins
Ombudsman