DRN-3935607
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland 
(referred to here as BOI) refused to give them a new mortgage interest rate product. They 
are also unhappy that BOI has refused to give them a term extension on their mortgage.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs W being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In 2005 Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage through BOI, arranged through Mr Ws own 
mortgage brokerage company. They borrowed £439,000 on an interest-only basis over a 
term of 15 years. The mortgage completed on 11 October 2005 and was due to be repaid in 
October 2020. BOI granted a one-year term extension because of the pandemic but the 
balance (now around £450,000) is still outstanding.
In September 2021 Mr W (who has dealt with matters throughout) asked BOI for a two-year 
term extension. He also proposed overpaying the mortgage by paying £2,000 per month. 
Mr W says that, at the time BOI was offering existing borrowers rates that would have 
allowed him to reduce his payments to £800 per month, so hed have been reducing the 
capital by £1,200 per month. However, BOI said it wasnt able to offer a new interest rate on 
an expired mortgage. The bank also declined a term extension, on the basis of affordability, 
and because of the lack of an acceptable repayment vehicle. 
Mr and Mrs W complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator explained 
that we could only consider Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about not being offered a new interest 
rate from 1 November 2015 onwards, which both Mr and Mrs W and BOI accepted. In 
relation to events after 1 November 2015, the investigator didnt think BOI had acted 
unreasonably. The first time BOI recorded a request for a new rate was October 2021. 
The investigator found no evidence to suggest  as Mr W asserted  that BOI had already 
agreed to offer him a new interest rate or a term extension. She was satisfied that BOI 
wasnt obliged to offer a new interest rate product on an expired mortgage. The investigator 
also noted that Mr and Mrs W didnt have a repayment strategy that met BOIs criteria. The 
investigator also explained that a £75 fee debited to the account when BOI referred the 
account to its solicitors was in line with the terms and conditions and tariff of charges. In the 
circumstances, the investigator didnt think BOI had done anything wrong.
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes reiterated his 
points previously made, which are that he believes the mortgage is affordable. Mr W also 
says that there is approximately £800,000 equity in his property, so there is no risk to BOIs 
security even if I did not pay my mortgage for 5 years 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted all the points Mr W has made, but I will explain here that this mortgage is with the 
UK branch of BOI. So, whilst Mr W has provided a lot of information about issues that have 
affected BOI customers in the Republic of Ireland, those arent relevant to this particular 
mortgage.
Ive reviewed BOIs contact notes and I can see that the first time Mr and Mrs W asked for a 
new interest rate product was in October 2021. By this time the mortgage term had expired 
and (in line with the regulators guidance) BOI had granted a years period of grace. Its not 
possible to issue a new interest rate product on an expired mortgage. Thats because there 
is no mortgage term left onto which an interest rate product could be applied. I appreciate 
Mr W argues that hed asked for a new product several times prior to October 2021 but this 
isnt reflected in BOIs comprehensive contact notes. 
In relation to a formal term extension, BOI is entitled to assess whether or not this meets its 
lending criteria and risk appetite. I note that when Mr W spoke to BOI on 6 October 2020 he 
explained that his repayment strategy was a potential court settlement in his favour. Mr W 
said the litigation had been going on since 2015 and he couldnt say when it was likely to be 
resolved, but thought it would be fair to say it would be about two years. Mr W said the 
settlement would be a minimum of £900,000, and that an offer of £3 million had already 
been declined. 
However, Im satisfied that this isnt an acceptable repayment strategy as it is speculative. It 
doesnt meet BOIs lending criteria. BOI is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions 
that BOI makes in respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this 
particular lending assessment, and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are 
clearly discretionary matters for BOIs own commercial judgement that I would not interfere 
with.
BOI has provided information about its lending criteria and about what was taken into 
account in its consideration of the request for a term extension. After considering this 
information, Im satisfied that BOI reached its decision fairly, after taking into account all 
relevant factors, including (but not limited to) affordability, exposure to risk, and 
Mr and Mrs Ws specific circumstances. Given this, Im satisfied that BOI gave fair 
consideration to this application. This means that there is no basis upon which I can find that 
BOI has treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly or unreasonably.
It is also worth mentioning that more than two years have passed since 6 October 2020 
when Mr W first told BOI that he thought it would take two years for the litigation to be 
concluded. No evidence has been produced by Mr W to suggest that this is any nearer to a 
conclusion than it was in October 2020.
In addition to the £75 already added to the account for referring the account to solicitors, BOI 
is entitled, under the contract terms and conditions, to add any other legal fees to the 
account.  Given that the period of grace granted by BOI expired 15 months ago, Im not 
persuaded it is unreasonable for BOI to refer the account to solicitors.
The mortgage balance is now overdue, and, if repayment proposals cant be agreed, BOI will 
be entitled to pursue recovery action through the courts, as a last resort. I would not want 
Mr and Mrs W to underestimate the seriousness of this. Where a mortgage term has expired, the options available to the borrower to ask the court to suspend possession are 
very limited. 
I think it is also important to explain here that lenders will generally agree to put recovery 
action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they dont have to and we cant force them 
to. If the Financial Ombudsman Service had that power it would undermine our impartiality 
between the parties to a complaint. It would also create the potential risk of consumers using 
our service to bring complaints with the intention of obstructing businesses that were trying 
to take legitimate action through the courts to recover money owed to them. I do not wish to 
alarm Mr and Mrs W, but I would not want them to be under any misunderstanding that we 
would tell BOI that it must suspend any recovery action in the event of a new complaint 
being raised.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs W were hoping for. They will now need to 
think carefully about how they intend to repay the mortgage. In this respect, Mr and Mrs W 
are not without options; Mr W has told us there is about £800,000 equity in the property, so 
Mr and Mrs W have the option to sell the mortgaged property and purchase another free of 
mortgage. There are a number of substantial properties listed in the area where 
Mr and Mrs W live for about £700,000. 
Alternatively, if, as Mr W claims, there is no issue around affordability, he and Mrs W are free 
to arrange a new mortgage with another lender. Whilst I appreciate Mr Ws professional 
background, he and Mrs W might find it helpful to take objective and impartial advice at 
arms length from an independent financial adviser about the options available to them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman