DRN-3285467
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the hospital fees settlement offered by BUPA Insurance Limited 
under her private medical insurance claim.
 
What happened
Mrs J held private medical insurance cover with a provider (that Ill call C). 
In January 2021, C transferred its business to BUPA. However, Mrs J remained covered 
under her policy terms with C until her renewal on 5 April 2021.
Mrs J needed an operation in January 2021, and informed BUPA of this. BUPA confirmed 
that the operation was eligible under the policy terms, however, the hospital wasnt included 
in Mrs Js directory of hospitals. It said that it would contribute £8,655 towards the hospital 
costs. 
Mrs J went ahead with the operation, and paid £22,990 for the hospital costs. She 
complained to BUPA about the settlement figure it had offered her, and thought this ought to 
have been based on Cs tariff arrangements with other private hospitals, rather than BUPAs. 
BUPA didnt change its decision, and so Mrs J brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that Cs tariffs didnt 
form part of Mrs Js policy terms. He therefore concluded that BUPA didnt need to settle the 
claim based on Cs tariffs. 
Mrs J didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for 
a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Js policy terms say a claim will only be considered if:
The patient has used a hospital listed in our Directory of Hospitals; or where a hospital is 
used that is not in the directory and we have agreed in writing to pay up to those rates we 
would have expected to pay at a private hospital in our directory.
A separate Claims & Hospital Guide document explains that it should be read in conjunction 
with the policy document. It then sets out the directory of hospitals that can be used by 
members, and says that using a hospital not listed in the directory can result in the member 
having to fund some of their care (and that it would write to the member detailing the amount 
it would pay towards their hospitalisation). It then says that it will only ever cover costs up to 
those rates it would have expected to pay at a private hospital in its directory offering the 
similar services and facilities.
The hospital where Mrs J had her operation wasnt included in the directory of hospitals. 
Mrs J says that she was told that her policy would remain unchanged until her renewal 
following the transfer, and there would be no change to her policy. She thinks the amount 
payable for her hospitalisation ought to be the amount C wouldve paid based on its tariff 
agreements with other private hospitals in the directory.
Every private medical insurer will have its own tariff arrangements (or contracts) with private 
hospitals. Those tariff arrangements are entirely separate to the contract of insurance held 
with a policyholder.
Mrs Js contract of insurance makes it clear that if she had treatment at a hospital listed in 
the directory, the costs would be covered. The amount C (or later, BUPA) would then pay 
that hospital is between the insurer and the hospital.
However, Mrs J chose to have treatment in a hospital not in the directory. Her policy terms 
say that in those circumstances, she would receive the amount that would have been paid at 
a private hospital in the directory. 
After the transfer took place in January 2021, BUPA paid hospital fees for all Cs members 
based on its own tariff arrangements that it had in place with the hospitals. It didnt continue 
to pay the tariffs that C had previously had in place with those hospitals. 
I dont know what Cs tariff arrangements were with the various hospitals on the directory, 
though BUPA acknowledges these were higher than its own. However, Im satisfied that it 
was reasonable for BUPA to use its own tariff arrangements when working out the 
settlement for Mrs J, as this was the amount it wouldve paid, had she gone to a hospital in 
the directory.
Mrs J was aware before going ahead with the operation of the shortfall that shed need to 
pay. I can understand why Mrs J didnt want to make changes to her planned operation, 
however, I wouldve still expected BUPA to have given Mrs J the option to have the 
treatment with a consultant and at a hospital covered by the policy. Im satisfied that BUPA 
did so, but Mrs J didnt wish to explore this option. That was of course her decision.
Overall, I can appreciate Mrs Js disappointment that shes apparently received less than 
she wouldve done had C not transferred its business to BUPA. However, the tariff 
arrangements with hospitals didnt form part of Mrs Js policy terms with C, and so I dont 
find that BUPA has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman