DRN-4346945
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Zopa Bank Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
In February 2021 Mrs E entered into an unsecured fixed sum loan agreement with Zopa. 
Under this agreement Mrs E borrowed the sum of £12,000 to be paid back over a period of 
60 months. The monthly repayments were £237.57.
 
Mrs E says Zopa shouldnt have agreed the loan as it was unaffordable for her. So, she 
complained to Zopa. In doing so, she told it shed been deceived into transferring the funds 
to a third-party as part of a romance scam. 
Zopa responded to Mrs Es complaint but didnt uphold it. It said that Mrs E didnt dispute 
applying for the loan  which she had said was for home improvements, or that the funds 
had been correctly credited to her personal current account which was held with another 
bank. It also said that Mrs Es loan application had passed its credit, affordability and 
security checks, and her income was confirmed as genuine. Based on this, and the 
information it obtained via the credit reference agencies, it said it found the repayments of 
£237.56 per month to be affordable for her. 
It added that, while Mrs E maintained her first two payments to the loan, she had made no 
further repayments to the loan, so it defaulted the account to prevent any further interest 
accruing.   
Unhappy with the response, Mrs E referred this complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into it, and he thought the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think Zopa had done 
enough checks to ensure the loan was affordable for Mrs E. He said that if Zopa had done 
more checks it would have found that Mrs E didnt have enough disposable income to 
sustainably meet the monthly repayments. He recommended that Zopa remove any interest 
and charges applied from February 2021 onwards and contact Mrs E to arrange a suitable 
repayment plan for the outstanding balance.
Zopa accepted the investigators findings, but Mrs E didnt. She said that in separate 
complaints about her current accounts held with other banks, it had been accepted that she 
was a victim of fraud. But as she had only received a partial refund, she was unable to repay 
what she had borrowed from Zopa and other lenders. She said that, as the investigator had 
agreed that this loan shouldnt have been provided to her, Zopa should write off the 
outstanding balance.
  
The Investigator considered what Mrs E had said but he didnt change the outcome he had 
reached. As Mrs E didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to reach a final 
decision. For clarity this decision solely relates to Mrs Es complaint about Zopas decision to 
lend to her. I make no findings on any other complaints Mrs E has referred to this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mrs E and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im also not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is a fair outcome to this complaint.
Mrs E complained that Zopa shouldnt have provided the loan to her as it was unaffordable. 
And, overall, I agree with our investigator. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Zopa did 
enough checks before agreeing to lend to Mrs E. And Im persuaded that had it done more 
checks it would have found that Mrs E didnt have the disposable income available to 
sustainably meet the monthly repayments. It follows that I find Zopa shouldnt have lent    
Mrs E the money.   
In upholding the complaint, our Investigator recommended that Zopa should remove any 
interest and charges applied to the loan from February 2021 onwards and contact Mrs E to 
arrange a suitable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. Mrs E hasnt accepted this 
outcome  in the sense that she doesnt think the redress goes far enough. Due to wider 
circumstances  being the victim of a scam, she now owes a substantial amount of money to 
Zopa and other lenders, and she says she cant afford to pay back the money she borrowed. 
She believes it would be fairer if Zopa wrote off the outstanding balance of the loan.
Generally, this service would say that if a consumer had the use of the money they borrowed 
they should pay it back. But the business who lent the money shouldnt profit from it  hence 
the investigators recommendation for charges and interest to be refunded. So, Ive thought 
carefully about this to decide if there is any reason why I should depart from this approach.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs E, Ive found this approach to be fair and 
reasonable in this particular complaint. While I accept Mrs E is now in a difficult position as 
shes being asked to repay money she passed on to a third-party, I dont find I can fairly and 
reasonably hold Zopa responsible for that. It shouldnt have lent to her, but it did provide the 
loan to Mrs E on the understanding the money was for some home improvements. It wasnt 
to know, and couldnt reasonably have foreseen, it would be used in the way it was. So, 
while Zopa shouldnt profit from this matter, I find its fair for Zopa to ask for the capital to be 
repaid. 
This complaint is about Zopas decision to lend to Mrs E and thats what Ive considered.  
Mrs E is now saying she cant afford to pay the loan back. And given Ive found that Mrs E 
didnt have the disposable income to meet the contractual loan repayments, I accept its 
likely that she cant make substantive repayments to the capital element now. But I cant say 
that Mrs E cant afford to pay something. And I think thats a conversation Mrs E must have 
with Zopa. 
Zopa has an obligation to treat consumers in financial difficulty positively and 
sympathetically. But that means both Mrs E and Zopa working together to see what remedy 
is most suitable in her particular circumstances. If, when such a conversation has happened 
and Zopa has put forward a remedy to assist, Mrs E doesnt feel Zopa has treated her fairly that would be the basis of a new complaint that she would need to raise with Zopa before 
referring it to this service. It doesnt form part of this complaint.    
 
I note Zopa has defaulted Mrs Es loan account, and this will have had a negative impact on 
her credit file. Ive looked at a copy of the loan agreement and I can see this makes provision 
for Zopa to take action when payments are missed. And from what Ive seen, Zopa made the 
decision to default Mrs Es loan account after she had missed six monthly repayments  
which is line with industry guidance. Zopa also issued arrears letters and a default notice 
before taking this action. In doing so, this has prevented further charges and interest 
accruing. 
Given Mrs E has said she cant afford to pay back the loan and as Ive not seen anything to 
say she has meaningfully engaged with Zopa about repayment of the loan prior to the 
default taking place, I dont think Zopa has treated Mrs E unfairly in this respect.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold Mrs Es complaint about irresponsible lending. Zopa 
Bank Limited should now:
Rework Mrs Es loan account so that all the interest, fees and charges applied to if 
from February 2021 onwards are removed and no more are applied.
If an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made, Zopa 
should contact Mrs E to arrange a suitable remedy taking into account her current 
financial situation and its obligations to treat her financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically.
If no outstanding balance remains, any adverse information should be removed from 
the credit file.
If the refund means theres no remaining balance, any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Mrs E.
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to take off tax from this interest. Zopa must give 
Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman