DRN-2581204
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them a 
level term assurance plan with critical illness cover. They say that they werent made aware 
that they couldve gone elsewhere for their life cover; no other options were discussed with 
them; and they didnt have a need for life cover at the time.
What happened
In 2002, Mr and Mrs B met with an adviser from NatWest to discuss their protections needs. 
They had taken out a mortgage with NatWest which had started earlier in 2002 and had 
taken out a decreasing term assurance plan with critical illness cover. The initial sum 
assured was £100,000 and the term was 25 years, which matched the mortgage borrowing. 
But Mr and Mrs B had believed that they had taken out a plan that gave them level cover, 
rather than decreasing. They said that they were planning on making interest-only payments 
towards the mortgage, and then pay capital repayments when they could.
NatWests adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs B replace their decreasing plan with a 
level term plan for £100,000 over 25 years.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs B complained about the sale of the plan. They said they werent given
the option of going elsewhere for their plan and werent told that they could choose not to 
have it. They said that, if they could have saved money by not having the plan, then they 
wouldve done.
NatWest said that it believed the recommendation had been appropriate for Mr and Mrs B as 
they had an interest-only mortgage where the capital amount stayed the same. It said that, 
although having life insurance wasnt a condition of the mortgage, the plan would have 
provided cover if either of them had passed away, which wouldve meant the mortgage could 
be repaid.
The investigators opinion
Our investigator looked into the complaint and, although she felt the plan hadnt been 
entirely suitable for Mr and Mrs B at the time, she didnt think this had caused them to suffer 
a financial loss.
The investigator said that, although Mr B had an existing protection plan at the time, this was 
for family protection. So she didnt think it was unsuitable to recommend term assurance for 
Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time. She said that the plan wasnt a condition of their 
mortgage borrowing and they were happy to go ahead with the recommendation made for 
them.
However, the investigator noted that the end date of the plan was later than the end date of 
the mortgage. Although she didnt think Mr and Mrs B had suffered a loss because of this, 
she felt NatWest should look to inform Mr and Mrs B about cancelling their plan when their 
mortgage ends.
NatWest didnt accept the investigators findings. It said that a mistake had been identified in 
the decreasing term plan being recommended for Mr and Mrs Bs interest-only mortgage, 
and this had been rectified by the recommendation of the level term plan. It said the policy 
documents explained that it was a 25-year plan and it could only recommend a plan with a 
term in whole years, not part years. It said it had no authority to recommend that a customer 
cancels their life insurance and said a customers circumstances can change and some may 
decide to continue with the valuable life cover after a mortgage has ended. NatWest said 
that it believed Mr and Mrs B were aware of the term of the plan and were happy to accept it.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2020. In summary, I said that 
I didnt think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage with NatWest began in May 2002, and they took out a decreasing 
term assurance plan with critical illness cover that started the following month.
I considered their circumstances at the time, and I didnt think the recommendation to take 
out life and critical illness cover was unsuitable for them. I said this because they were jointly 
and severally liable for the mortgage borrowing and having this plan in place meant that the 
mortgage could be repaid in the event either of them passed away or was diagnosed with a 
specified critical illness.
However, the plan they took out was on a decreasing basis which meant the level of cover it 
gave would gradually go down over the term it was in place. As their mortgage was on an 
interest-only basis, this meant that they would only be paying back the interest and the 
capital borrowed would need to be repaid by the end of the mortgage. Because of this, a 
plan on a level basis would be more appropriate, as the cover would stay the same over the
term.
And it seemed that NatWest recognised this during the meeting with Mr and Mrs B in 
October 2002, and that was why the level term assurance plan with critical illness cover was 
recommended to replace the decreasing term plan.
I considered the fact find completed at this meeting. This recorded that Mr B had an existing 
level term assurance policy that was intended to be used for family protection. Their 
objective from the meeting was noted that it was in relation to their joint mortgage and that 
they were intending to make repayments on an ad-hoc basis as currently only repaying
interest and want to ensure that loan fully covered throughout term.
Taking everything into account, including their particular circumstances at that time and their 
objectives from the meeting, I thought the recommendation to replace their decreasing term 
assurance plan with a level plan was reasonable. I could see that the fact find noted that this 
was what they believed they had taken out when they started the decreasing term plan.
I appreciated that Mr and Mrs B recalled that they werent given any alternatives and that 
they werent aware that they didnt have to have such cover. However, taking out such cover 
wasnt a condition of their mortgage offer. I also noted that Mr Bs existing policy was with 
another provider so it was reasonable to suggest that, from this, they wouldve been aware 
that they could have obtained cover elsewhere.
I said I could understand Mrs Bs point that they couldve saved money by not taking out this 
particular plan. However, the information recorded in the fact find, and the reasons why letter 
sent following the meeting, indicated that they felt the premiums for it were affordable to 
them.NatWest told us that the term assurance plan could only be issued in whole years, and I 
didnt think this was unusual for such policies at that time. So the recommendation was for it 
to be set up for 25 years which would have ensured that they had sufficient cover for the
remaining duration of the mortgage and met their needs and objectives from the advice they
were given.
I said that while I appreciated that this meant that Mr and Mrs B would have life cover in 
place for around five months after their mortgage was due to be repaid, I didnt think this in 
itself meant that it was unsuitable for them, or that they should have been recommended a 
plan over a shorter term as this may have left them without such cover later in their lives 
when they still had an outstanding mortgage commitment.
I said that this is Mr and Mrs Bs plan to do with as they wish, whether that be to continue it 
to the end of the term, or to cancel it if they feel it no longer meets their needs. I said I 
wouldnt expect NatWest to influence Mr and Mrs Bs decision about this.
The responses
NatWest responded to say that it had nothing further to add in response to my provisional 
decision. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr and Mrs B nor NatWest have responded with any further submissions, I see 
no reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman