DRN-3440406
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) allowed him to go into unarranged overdraft 
and charged him for this when it wouldnt approve him with an agreed overdraft.
What happened
Mr D complained to HSBC about the charges applied to his account when he went into 
unarranged overdraft.  HSBC said all charges were applied correctly in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account and that Mr D had been sent a number of letters about the 
status of his account and offering assistance but that Mr D had never contacted it. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ds concern and reached the conclusion HSBC 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mr D disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Ive seen that Mr D has in some of his correspondence referred to the proportionality of the 
charges applied to his account when he went into unarranged overdraft and that he shouldnt 
have been allowed to become overdrawn as it wasnt affordable. But before I go any further, 
I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various amounts HSBC 
charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs 
of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. And this also applies in regards to how a bank runs its 
business. I cannot make a bank change its systems or processes such as how or when it will 
lend. That said, while Im not looking at HSBCs various charging structures or processes per 
se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr D if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to Mr Ds account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mr D was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Mr D fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that HSBC did treat Mr D unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Mr Ds statements I havent seen enough to suggest that 
HSBC ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to 
HSBC getting in touch with Mr D in July 2019 following it being contacted by a third party 
regarding a repayment offer on Mr Ds account.
Having looked at Mr Ds statements I can see that at times his account did go into 
unarranged overdraft, but I can also see that up until July 2019 Mr D was always able to 
bring his account back into credit. And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value 
judgements over his expenditure the transactions that have put him into overdraft were 
generally non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions which he chose to 
make. So I dont think there was anything showing on Mr Ds statements which suggests 
HSBC ought to have stepped in earlier than it did.
I understand Mr D may not have wanted HSBC to have authorised the transactions and 
allowed his account to go into unarranged overdraft  but HSBC is entitled to do this under 
the terms and conditions of the account. And Im sure Mr D appreciates holding a bank 
account comes with responsibilities  one of which is ensuring the account holds sufficient 
funds for items that the account holder wishes to pay for from the account.
I can see that the charges HSBC applied for use of the unarranged overdraft were all notified 
to Mr D beforehand and that they were correctly applied. And as soon as HSBC was made 
aware of Mr Ds financial difficulties it froze further charges, cancelled direct debits and 
standing orders and passed his account to its repayment services team. But as Mr D was 
unable to agree a repayment plan within a reasonable period of time HSBC wrote to Mr D in 
July 2020 asking him to get in touch - explaining what would happen if no action was taken. 
And as Mr D took no action his account was closed and a default for the overdraft debt 
recorded on his credit file.
Mr D doesnt understand why a default was applied when he didnt have an agreed 
overdraft. But whether the overdraft was a formal arrangement or unarranged it is still credit 
provided by HSBC. Ultimately Mr H used the funds and was made aware of the amount he 
owed and HSBC is entitled to recoup its losses.
I understand Mr H is unhappy about negative information being reported on his credit file 
and would like this information removed. But HSBC does have a duty to make sure the 
information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to 
is factually accurate. 
So overall and having considered everything I dont think HSBC treated Mr D unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman