DRN-2022333
The complaint
Mrs F and Mr L complain that, in 2010, Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a packaged bank 
account (PBA). 
What happened
Mrs F and Mr L had had a bank account with Bank of Scotland since 1995. There was no 
regular fee for running this account. 
In 2010 the account was changed into an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) which 
was a PBA costing £12.50 per month (with a rebate of £5 if you paid in £1000 or more a 
month). The PBA came with benefits which included car breakdown cover, travel insurance, 
mobile phone insurance, home emergency cover, card protection and purchase insurance; it 
also charged no fees on an overdraft (if agreed) up to £300. 
Mrs F and Mr L say they were told in 2010 that their fee-free banking was ending, and the 
account would be changed into an URCA account. They say they were wrongly told that they 
had to change to the URCA account to keep their overdraft. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs F and Mr L didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
A significant problem is that this all happened over 10 years ago, and it wouldnt be 
surprising if someone didnt remember all the detail of an even such as this. So, it may not 
be fair for me to rely just on what Mrs F and Mr L now remember as happening. And I 
wouldnt know whether the member of Bank of Scotland staff simply told them that this 
PBA was just an option for them to consider, nor how clearly they put that across.
And there is some evidence to suggest Mrs F and Mr L may not be fully clear on what 
happened. 
In their correspondence with us, Mrs F and Mr L have said that they received a letter in 
2010, which said their fee-free banking was ending and their account would be changed 
into the URCA account. But, in the same email to us, they also say they believed the bank 
adviser in 2010 when he said the only account option with an overdraft was the URCA. 
These are two different things  one is that there is no longer fee-free banking, and the 
other is that the URCA was the only way to continue with an overdraft. This does cast 
some doubt on whether it would be fair for me to rely on what they remember and how 
they interpreted what they were told, even though I have no doubts that they are 
attempting to present an accurate account of what happened.
Neither Mrs F and Mr L, nor the bank, have provided the 2010 letter as evidence, so I 
cant be sure what it actually said. However, I think its unlikely the letter would actually 
have said that free banking was ending, as it would have contradicted the facts; and I 
think it likely such an inaccurate letter (which I would presume was a standard mailing 
sent to many customers) would otherwise have been cited in other complaints, by other 
complainants, about the sale of URCA accounts. 
So it wouldnt be fair for me to rely on what Mrs F and Mr L now remember about the 
contents of that letter. 
I have though seen the text of a letter sent by the bank to Mrs F and Mr L in November 
2007, as Mrs F and Mr l sent to us. This letter advised of changes in Mrs F and Mr Ls 
current account. It said that there would be a reduction in the amount of interest earnable 
on positive bank balances, and an increase to the rate of interest on overdrafts. 
I think Mrs F and Mr L have slightly misinterpreted what that letter said. Theyve told us 
that it is clear from what is written, only 1 account offers an overdraft (i.e. the URCA). 
But I dont read the letter that way. The letter told Mrs F and Mr L that they would be 
better off changing to one of our new accounts shown below. The letter then says:
Accounts you can choose from include Our High Interest Current Account [with 
details of what interest could be earned  6.17% AER]  [and] an Ultimate 
Reward Current Account [with details of interest that could be earned  6.17% 
AER]  and the first £300 of any agreed overdraft limit is interest -free (subject to 
status and credit approval).
That doesnt say that there isnt an overdraft on the High Interest Current Account, nor on 
other accounts not listed  only that, by implication, the URCA is the only one that offers it 
interest free. 
So this does cast further doubt in my mind on how far I can now rely on Mrs F and Mr Ls 
recollections and interpretations of what they were told.
Theyve said they had no reason to change their account in 2010, and only did so 
because the bank told them they had no choice. But it is quite possible they would have 
been attracted by the interest free nature of the overdrafts on the URCA account, and also 
the possibility of using some of the insurance benefits and other benefits. So I wouldnt be 
able to say that the only possible reason Mrs F and Mr L took the URCA was because 
they were told they had no choice. 
Overall there isnt enough evidence for me to fairly uphold Mrs F and Mr Ls complaint that 
they were given no choice. It wouldnt be fair to make Barclays prove it didnt act wrongly 
 instead, fairly, I would need reasonable evidence to show that it probably did do 
something wrong. And I cant say that there is that kind of evidence. So I cant say that the 
PPI was mis-sold in the way Mrs F and Mr L now believe. 
I know that Mrs F and Mr L are not specifically complaining about these, but Ive thought 
about other possible ways the PBA might have been mis-sold. However, I cant say that 
these apply. I dont have evidence that the bank recommended the PBA, in the sense of telling them it was a good fit for their individual circumstances. So, I dont need to check 
whether it was in fact a good fit, and a good recommendation  though actually I cant see 
that it would have been a poor recommendation, in view of the potential use Mrs F and Mr L 
could have made of some of the benefits. It would then have been up to them to decide 
whether they thought the benefits worth the fee. 
I dont know how good the information was that Bank of Scotland gave about the PBAs 
features, so that Mrs F and Mr L could make an informed choice. But I think its likely it would 
have given some information, not least to persuade them it was worth the cost. And, even 
with the fullest information about costs, benefits and limitations, I think its unlikely it would 
have made a significant difference to whether the PBA seemed worth the fee; and Mrs F and 
Mr L have told us they were aware at the time of limitations in the travel insurance in their 
circumstances. I think that understanding what benefits were available to them, and the 
limits of those benefits, are unlikely to have been enough to show the PBA was of no use to 
them. 
Overall, I cant say its likely the PBA was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs F and Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman