DRN-2641158
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) withdrew a mortgage offer at 
short notice causing them significant inconvenience and distress.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs H applied for a mortgage with YBS. They were purchasing their new property 
using help to buy funding. YBS has said this was confirmed in the mortgage application and I 
can see it was noted in the valuation carried out on behalf of YBS.
YBS issued a mortgage offer in February 2020 confirming it was willing to provide the 
requested mortgage.
Mr and Mrs H, through their solicitors, set completion of the purchase of their new property 
and sale of their old property for 13 March 2020. 
On 9 March 2020 YBS withdrew the mortgage offer. It explained that this was because it had 
previously made an error and failed to note the involvement of help to buy funding. This 
funding meant that it could not lend in the manner applied for and Mr and Mrs H would have 
to reapply, via an adviser, to a different arm of its business.
As a result, completion had to be delayed. Mr and Mrs H did reapply as directed and a 
mortgage was agreed. The sale and purchase then completed on 27 March 2020, with the 
mortgage being drawn down at that point. 
Mr and Mrs H complained to YBS. They said that theyd been clear from the outset that help 
to buy funding was being used to purchase their new property. And YBS error in missing 
this and subsequent withdrawal of the mortgage offer had caused them significant distress. 
They said theyd feared losing the buyer of their existing property. And in addition, theyd had 
to reschedule the setup of several amenities and fitting of items to their new home, which 
had now been delayed further due to the national lockdown.
YBS acknowledged it had made an error and that the initial application should not have 
gotten to the stage it had as it was clear Mr and Mrs H were using help to buy funding. To 
put things right it offered to pay £1,058.30 towards their solicitors costs  to cover any 
additional costs incurred due to the delay  and £500 for the upset caused.
Mr and Mrs H asked our service to consider the complaint. One of our investigators looked 
into matters. He noted Mr and Mrs H would always have needed to pay some solicitors 
costs. So, he didnt think YBS should be required to pay all of those costs. With that in mind 
he said he felt that the contribution towards solicitors costs was fair. But he thought that the 
amount offered for the upset caused should be increased by a further £250  as the error by 
YBS had delayed matters and he was satisfied this had prevented the fitting of finishings to 
the property that wouldve been completed had this not happened.
Mr and Mrs H accepted the investigators opinion. YBS did not. It said it didnt think it was 
responsible for the delays which were ultimately caused by the national lockdown so it 
thought the offer already made was fair. As YBS did not agree with the investigators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that YBS has made an error here. It has accepted that Mr and Mrs H were 
clear that they were using help to buy funding to part fund the purchase of their new home. 
And Im satisfied that YBS was aware of this before issuing the initial mortgage offer. YBS 
has explained that, where help to buy funding is being used, mortgage applications need to 
be made to a specific part of its business through a specific process. Mr and Mrs H had not 
applied through this process so YBS should not have issued the offer in the first place and 
should instead have directed them to the other application channel sooner. If they had done, 
I think its likely, based on the mortgage subsequently being granted, that the problems, and 
distress incurred by Mr and Mrs H, couldve been avoided.
As it isnt in dispute that an error was made, what is left for me to decide is what a fair way of 
putting things right is.
Im conscious that the replacement application, through the appropriate channel, seems to 
have been reviewed quickly by YBS, allowing the completion to only be delayed by a couple 
of weeks. Which I think was reasonable. But as the need for this to be reviewed quickly 
stemmed from an entirely avoidable error by YBS this is the least I wouldve expected.
Mr and Mrs H have provided evidence of the solicitors costs theyve incurred. I agree with 
our investigator that, without the error by YBS, they would always have incurred some 
solicitors costs. So, I dont think itd be fair for YBS to pay all of these. The offer already 
made by YBS  to pay £1,058.30 of these costs  is approximately 38% of the total theyve 
paid. The invoices Ive seen dont suggest that any additional solicitors costs, due to the 
delay, exceeded this amount. So, in the circumstances, I think this is fair.
Mr and Mrs H have provided evidence that they had to rearrange installation of some fittings 
to their new property, due to not being able to complete as scheduled. The information 
around this suggests there was no additional cost incurred as a result of the delay. But I 
dont doubt this was frustrating. The installations were then further delayed due to the 
national lockdown  meaning that they had to move into the property while it was 
incomplete. Mr and Mrs H have also provided evidence that the connection of some services 
was also delayed, by the national lockdown. But Im conscious that these already seemed to 
be scheduled after the eventual completion date. 
YBS says it cant be considered responsible for the impact of the national lockdown. And I 
agree. This was an event entirely out of everyones control. And it was this exceptional set of 
circumstances which have ultimately caused the longer-term disruption to Mr and Mrs H. 
That being said, if YBS hadnt made an error in the first place, causing the two-week delay, 
then at least some of the disruption experienced since, and distress caused by this, wouldve 
been avoided. As I mentioned it doesnt seem that Mr and Mrs H incurred a direct additional 
cost due to rearranging any of these installations. But I dont doubt that having to rearrange 
them was inconvenient. Notwithstanding that some of the distress stemmed from the national lockdown though, I still 
think the error by YBS has caused Mr and Mrs H significant upset and inconvenience. 
Moving house is often already a difficult and stressful time. To have the mortgage offer 
withdrawn, due to no fault of their own, within days of the original scheduled completion 
would I think understandably have been extremely distressing for Mr and Mrs H. Especially 
when clear information had been provided to YBS throughout and it had missed several 
opportunities to address this sooner. 
With this in mind, I think it is appropriate that YBS make a payment to them for the distress it 
has caused. Ive thought about what I think a fair way to address the upset caused by this 
would be. Having done so, I find I agree with our investigator. I dont think the £500 offered 
by YBS so far in respect of this goes quite far enough. Mr and Mrs H have told us how this 
affected them emotionally and I dont doubt what theyve said  having to rearrange a 
completion at such short notice wouldve been very stressful, particularly with the 
overarching risk that the chain of purchases could ultimately have fallen through. So, I think 
increasing this offer by a further £250, as our investigator suggested, would be a more fair 
and reasonable way to address the upset caused here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint.
I understand that Yorkshire Building Society previously sent Mr and Mrs H a cheque for 
£1,558.30, being the amount it originally offered. If that cheque has been cashed, to put 
things right it should pay them the additional £250 Ive recommended.
If however the original amount offered has not yet been paid, to put matters right Yorkshire 
Building Society should pay Mr and Mrs H £1,808.30  representing a contribution of 
£1,058.30 towards the solicitors costs they incurred, as previously offered, and £750 for the 
distress caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman