DRN-2711703
The complaint
Ms S has complained that The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited (Shepherds Friendly) 
avoided her policy and refused to pay her claim.
What happened
Ms S took out an income protection insurance policy through a broker, underwritten by 
Shepherds Friendly. Ms S made a claim as she was unable to work due to ill-health. The 
claim was accepted and paid for a number of months. But when Shepherds Friendly 
requested and reviewed Ms S medical records, it avoided her policy.
Shepherds Friendly has said Ms S failed to disclose all of her medical conditions. And had 
she declared all of her conditions correctly, it wouldnt have offered her a policy. 
Ms S brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think it should be upheld as 
Shepherds Friendly wouldnt have offered a policy to Ms S due to the number of exclusions it 
would have had to apply.
Ms S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, she said she 
disclosed all of her conditions as far as she could remember. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Shepherds Friendly has said Ms S failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she failed to declare the following:
Foot pain  had this been declared, an exclusion for both feet would have been 
applied 
Aches in arms, neck and shoulders  had this been declared, the application would 
have been postponed
Gynaecological referral and outstanding test results  the application would have 
been postponed
Failure to declare three other hospital referrals  an exclusion would have been 
applied for the right arm and thrombosis
In addition, it had already applied a spinal exclusion to the policy at inception. 
Ive looked at the questions asked by Shepherds Friendly at the time of application and I 
agree that Ms S failed to take reasonable care to disclose the relevant information.
Ms S was asked if, during the last five years shed had:
Neck, back, spine or joint trouble
Any gynaecological condition from which shed not been discharged from follow-up
Or if in the last 12 months, shed been referred to hospital or had any investigations 
in hospital
Shepherds Friendly has provided a copy of its underwriting criteria and further explanations 
from its underwriter. In summary, Shepherds Friendly would have had to apply a number of 
exclusions. But the underwriting policy confirms it can only issue a maximum of two medical 
exclusions on any policy and so it would have declined the application. This means Im 
satisfied Ms S misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Ms S says she declared her conditions to the best of her knowledge. But based on the 
medical evidence, there were a number of issues she failed to disclose. Due to her extensive 
medical history, if Ms S couldnt remember all hospital referrals or investigations, she could 
have contacted her GP for confirmation and clarification. Ms S also said she would send 
further comments but she hasnt sent anything in to date. For completeness, Im satisfied I 
can make my decision based on the information available. 
Shepherds Friendly has treated the misrepresentation as reckless. And I agree that Ms S 
should have declared the conditions and referrals outlined above. As Im satisfied Ms S 
misrepresentation should be treated as reckless, Ive looked at the actions Shepherds 
Friendly can take in accordance with CIDRA. It can avoid the policy, keep the premiums, 
refuse to pay a claim and also may recover costs paid to a third party on any claim.
Shepherds Friendly has confirmed that Ms S was paid a benefit for a number of months 
between July 2018 and August 2020. And the policy has since been avoided. But it will not 
pursue Ms S for recovery of any benefit paid. 
Im satisfied Shepherds Friendly was entitled to avoid Ms S policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  her policy never existed, Shepherds Friendly 
does not have to continue paying the claim. As CIDRA reflects our long-established 
approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Shepherds Friendly to rely on it and 
avoid Ms S policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman