DRN-3972827
The complaint
Mr T complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) coerced him into an advice meeting and 
then mis-advised him to take out a personal pension plan and contract out of the State 
Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) without explaining why or providing 
cancellation details.
What happened
Mr T was advised by Barclays Life financial adviser in 1995. ReAssure is now responsible 
for the plans and the advice given and I will just refer to ReAssure in my decision. Mr T says 
he was advised to set up two personal pension plans. One with a net of tax contribution of 
£40 per month paid by Mr T. With the other used to contract out of SERPS, which at the time 
was an additional State pension for employed people. Mr T says the adviser told him the 
State pension was likely to have been abolished by the time he reached pension age and if 
he didnt contract out of SERPS he would lose the contributions made to it. Mr T stopped 
paying contributions personally in 1997, when he joined his employers pension scheme.
Mr T says the advice he was given was never clear to him and he wasnt provided with 
cancellation rights as he should have been. He says when he contacted ReAssure to take 
the benefits, having attained age 50, he was told this wasnt possible until he was 55. He 
then felt the plans had been mis-sold to him and made a complaint to ReAssure. He said 
hed been pressured into meeting the adviser by bank branch staff. And there had been no 
requirement for him to take out these plans which contain funds he cant access. He said 
ReAssure should refund him the contributions paid with interest.
ReAssure rejected Mr Ts complaint. It said there was no evidence that hed been coerced 
into the meeting. As this had taken place six days after it had been arranged, so he could 
have cancelled if he didnt wish to go ahead. It said Mr T had signed documentation at the 
time of the sale which explained the details and provided cancellation rights. It said 
considering Mr Ts circumstances at the time the advice hed been given was suitable for 
him and complied with regulatory requirements.
Mr T disagreed. He said he couldnt understand how Reassure could say the advice was 
suitable after 25 years and could provide me with sufficient income when I reach 55 years 
old as the adviser had told him. He said it wasnt correct he would have lost his SERPs 
contributions as having checked with the DWP he could see he was actually on track to 
receive a full state pension.
Mr T referred his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold it.
Our investigator said there was no evidence Mr T had been coerced into the meeting and 
could have cancelled the appointment beforehand. He said at the time the advice was given 
the Government was encouraging people to opt out of the SERPS pension and have some 
of their National Insurance Contributions redirected to their own pension plan. For people 
under the age of 40, like Mr T, this widely seen as the right thing to do, so the advice to 
contract out of SERPS hadnt been unreasonable. He said ReAssure had provided 
documents signed by Mr T confirming what had been sold and that cancellation rights had 
been provided to him.
Mr T didnt think our investigators view was fair. He said he did feel hed been coerced and 
that things hadnt been explained, particularly his right to cancel the arrangements if he 
changed his mind. He said the pension plans werent suitable for him as they wouldnt have 
been adequate to provide for his retirement
As Mr T doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 19 January 2023, I explained the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Our investigators view on Mr Ts complaint only referred to one of his pension arrangements 
 the plan used to contract out of SERPs. His complaint to ReAssure was that both plans 
had been mis-sold and it provided final responses in respect of both, not accepting the 
complaint. I think Mr Ts complaint points are clear and the basis of them the same for each 
of the plans. So, I think its reasonable for me to consider his full complaint here. But 
because neither Mr T or ReAssure have been provided with a view on the full complaint this 
decision is provisional to give both sides the opportunity to comment and make any further 
points before I make my final decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I am not planning to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr T says he was coerced into the meeting and misled about the State pension and it was 
implied it was mandatory for him to save into a pension. But I havent seen any evidence of 
that from the available records.
The meeting with the adviser took place around six days after it had been arranged. I think 
this gave Mr T a reasonable period of time to reflect on whether he wanted the meeting to go 
ahead or not, and he could have cancelled if he didnt.
The advice was given to Mr T many years ago and only he and the adviser were party to 
what was said and explained at the meeting. So, I dont know exactly what happened here 
but ReAssure has provided a copy of the Barclays Life  Personal Fact Find completed at 
the meeting, which Ill refer to as the document.
As well as recording details about Mr T, his finances and objectives the document also 
served as confirmation of any actions recommended, what was explained and what 
brochures, illustrations and so on were provided during the meeting. The document was 
signed by Mr T to confirm the information recorded was correct. So, I think this is an 
important evidence of what happened at the time.
The document is quite poor quality but sets out reasons what recommendations were being 
made and why. In a section to identify Mr Ts financial objectives the box marked Sufficient 
retirement income has been ticked. In the section headed Needs Analysis under the 
subheading Planning For Your Retirement the adviser has written:
Client should maximise contributions into pension to obtain maximum benefits at 
retirement.The document confirms the contributions were affordable for Mr T and sets out an income 
and expenditure analysis.
For the recommendation to contract out of SERPs plan the adviser has written:
Client met current earnings levels as per company guidelines.
The document records that Mr T has been provided with the pension plan brochure. And a 
key features document which would set out a projection of the pension benefits that might be 
available in the future and other key details. The Unique Reference Number of the key 
features document was recorded.
Boxes have been ticked to confirm that a Terms of Business letter and the advisers
business card have been given to Mr T and that cancellation rights and details of any
penalties have been explained.
At the end of the document Mr T has signed to confirm hed been given time to read it, that 
the information recorded was accurate and that he wished to proceed with the
recommended Action to be Taken set out. Which was to make a regular pension
contribution and to contract out of the SERPs pension.
So, on the basis of this evidence and Mr Ts agreement to proceed I think it was more likely 
than not that Mr T was provided with the other documents and information required by the 
financial service regulations at the time. That means I cant uphold those aspects of his 
complaint.
In terms of the advice Mr T was provided with the regulatory requirement was that this be 
suitable for him, and I think it was. Whilst pensions can be complicated, at heart they are just 
a tax efficient savings plan. Mr T has said it wasnt mandatory for him to make pension 
savings and hes quite correct and it still isnt. When Mr T stopped paying contributions to the 
ReAssure plan after around two years it was because hed joined his new employers 
occupational pension scheme. This seems to suggest that contrary to the points he makes in 
his complaint, he did consider pension saving to be appropriate for him.
In respect of contracting out of SERPs it was certainly the case at the time that it was
considered appropriate advice for people under age 40 (Mr T was 25), earning over a certain 
level of income to opt out of SERPs and have part of their National Insurance Contributions 
paid into a plan of their own. The Government offered an incentive by paying an additional 
rebate to encourage people to do so.
The future benefits from SERPs had already been reduced by Government at the time and it 
was widely thought that further changes would be made to state pension benefits in the 
future. And the State Pension system has been changed substantially since 1995 on more 
than one occasion and may be subject to further change in the future. So, given Mr Ts 
circumstances at the time the advice that he contract out of SERPs doesnt appear to be 
unreasonable.
In terms of the regular contribution Mr T was advised to make, the fact find notes that no 
regular savings needs had been identified and no recommendations had been made in this 
area, but that Mr T had no pension provision. Saving for retirement is generally a long-term 
project and delaying starting has been shown to significantly reduce the potential benefits 
available in retirement.
So, ReAssures recommendation to invest a relatively small proportion of Mr Ts recorded 
disposal income into the tax efficient pension plan doesnt seem unreasonable advice and it doesnt appear this was unaffordable for him at the time. The growth rates used on 
illustrations in 1995 were much higher than they are today and its likely that the investment 
returns achieved havent been as high as forecast. But investment returns werent 
guaranteed in anyway. And as Mr T only paid contributions for around two years, it isnt 
reasonable to expect the plan to provide significant benefits 25-30 years later.
Mr T has said he isnt able to access the funds, but he wouldnt have been able to access 
anything from the contracted-out pension until reaching a minimum pension age. Had he not 
contracted out there would have been no funds to access. Likewise, when he took out the 
regular contribution plan it couldnt be accessed until Mr T reached 50, although I note the 
plan was set up with a retirement age of 55. Since then, the minimum age pension benefits 
can be drawn has been increased to 55 by the Government. That is clearly outside 
ReAssures control and Mr T will be able to access the benefits when he reaches this age.
Mr T did sign the document to confirm matters had been explained and various other
documentation had been provided to him. And, the advice he was given doesnt appear to 
be inappropriate at the time considering his circumstances. So, at this stage I dont think 
ReAssure has treated Mr T unfairly or unreasonably.
I asked both parties to send me any further information or comments they would like me to 
consider before the 16 February 2023.
Response to provisional decision
Mr T didnt respond to my provisional decision.
ReAssure said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
As set out in my provisional decision from the evidence available I dont think ReAssure has 
treated Mr T unfairly or unreasonably. I dont think he was coerced into the meeting or 
misled in to taking out the pension plans he did. The advice he was given at the time seems 
to have been both reasonable and affordable to him. And I think it is more likely than not that 
Mr T was provided with the various documents and information required by the financial 
services regulations at the time.
The rules applying to both the state pension and private pension plans have changed 
considerably since the advice was given to Mr T and he only paid contributions personally to 
the plan for a relatively short period of time. So, it isnt reasonable to expect the arrangement 
to provide significant benefits 25-30 years later. 
As I dont think ReAssure has treated Mr T unfairly I do not uphold this complaint and it 
neednt do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I do 
not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman