DRN-2698353
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the loss adjuster acting for American International Group UK 
Limited as he was given poor advice during a claim for damage to his hire vehicle.
What happened
Mr S was driving a hire car when he was involved in an accident. The car was insured by the 
hire company under a policy with AIG. Mr S had agreed with the hire company what excess 
he would pay. When the accident happened AIG appointed a loss adjuster and considered 
the claim for damage to the hire vehicle. The loss adjuster told Mr S he wouldnt have to pay 
anything, but he was later told hed have to pay over £650. Mr S made a lot of calls and 
spoke to the hire company again. The hire company agreed Mr S would only have to pay the 
£50 excess but it then waived this as a goodwill gesture. 
Mr S was unhappy about the advice the loss adjuster had given him. Also that it had not 
been clear which company the adjuster was acting for. Mr S acknowledged hed had no 
financial loss due to the advice received, but said hed had sleepless nights, a lot of worry 
and a lot of running around was done until he was able to clear up the matter with the hire 
company a week later. He complained.
AIG accepted the adjuster had given Mr S poor advice. In an email an apology was given. In 
its final response it was confirmed that feedback had been given, to the staff member 
concerned and all relevant employees. No other remedy was offered. Mr S complained to 
us, he said he thought AIG should pay some compensation, perhaps £250.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He felt AIGs actions were enough, and noted 
Mr S hadnt ultimately had to pay any excess. He didnt think AIG should have to pay any 
compensation to Mr S.
Mr S said the waiver wasnt relevant to AIGs liabilities. He felt it should pay some 
compensation for the not inconsiderable upset it had caused him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that AIG, via its loss adjuster, gave Mr S poor advice. I also appreciate that this 
poor advice caused Mr S some worry. But this service doesnt require insurers to pay 
compensation for every instance of upset caused. To require an insurer to pay money to 
make up for upset caused by a wrong doing we have to be satisfied thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Sometimes an apology or action taken to prevent future 
harm from occurring is felt to be enough.
Here Mr S had worry for around a week. But I note he was always aware that the car hire 
company was willing to discuss the issue of the excess with him. And he was able to resolve 
the situation. AIG did make a mistake but Mr S ultimately didnt have to pay what it had said 
he would have to. In fact the hire companys goodwill gesture meant he didnt have to pay 
anything at all. 
I see that AIG did apologise to Mr S. Also it took action to prevent this problem from 
occurring in the future. 
Having taken everything into account, Im not persuaded that I can reasonably say AIG 
should pay Mr S compensation. Thats not to say it didnt cause him upset  it did. But Im 
satisfied that, on this occasion, monetary compensation is not fairly and reasonably due to 
make up for that. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against American International Group 
UK Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman