DRN-3241178
The complaint
Mrs P complains that a hire purchase agreement she had taken out with Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) for a car was mis-sold to her.
What happened
In June 2019 Mrs P and her husband attended a dealership to buy a used car. Mrs P had 
sufficient funds available to her to buy the car outright if she wished. She identified a 
suitable car which cost £14,901. Mrs P discussed the cars purchase with the salesperson 
and was informed that if she took out a finance agreement for a period of at least 10 
months then the car would be supplied with two-year extended warranty worth £1,249. 
Mrs P says the salesperson spent a long term working out various figures as to how this 
would best work for her.
Mrs P says the salesperson advised that her to take out finance for £13,000 and pay a 
deposit of £1,901. They said that once the finance agreement had been received by Mrs P 
then she should pay £10,000 off the credit amount which would leave a balance remaining 
of £3,000 to be paid over at least the next 10 months. The salesperson said this would 
mean she could still take advantage of the extended warranty offer. Mrs P agreed to the 
proposal and signed the hire purchase agreement.
The hire purchase agreement was set up for a credit amount of £13,000 over a 42-month 
period. The interest rate applied to this amount was 11.66% fixed, with an APR of 12.3% 
and the total cost of the credit was £2,894.90 with an additional £10 option to purchase 
fee.
In July 2019 Mrs P paid a lump sum payment of £10,000 towards the hire purchase 
agreements balance. Due to this partial payment, MBFS adjusted the amount of credit to 
be charged by calculating an interest rebate of £2,051.06. Mrs Ps repayments were reset 
for £91.52pm for the life of the agreement.
Mrs P made 12 monthly payments and then received her annual statement from MBFS. 
She says that when she received this statement, she was shocked to discover that the 
rate of interest that had been applied was around 11.7% as she had been unaware of this 
before. Mrs P says that the agreement was mis-sold to her because if she had been 
aware of the interest rate that had been applied, she would either have paid for the car in 
full or arranged a loan with another credit provider at a far lower rate.
Mrs P complained to MBFS that she had been mis-sold the hire purchase agreement. 
MBFS didnt uphold her complaint. It said that the rate of interest was clearly shown on the 
agreement that Mrs P had signed. It also said Mrs P had been aware that by taking out 
the hire purchase agreement and keeping it live for at least 10 months then she would 
also receive an extended two-year warranty with the car.
Mrs P was unhappy at the response from MBFS and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend her complaint should be upheld. He said that he thought 
it was likely that Mrs P had agreed to take out the finance agreement due to the 
incentive of the extended warranty and that she would have been aware of the rate of 
interest that had been applied as it had been prominently displayed on the paperwork.
Mrs P disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said she hadnt needed the credit 
agreement and could have, in any event, arranged a loan at a lower rate with another 
provider. Mrs P said she didnt receive copies of the paperwork and only learnt the 
interest rate on receiving the statement from MBFS.
I issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
I didnt think it was disputed that although Mrs P had been in a position to purchase the 
car outright, she had chosen to take out a credit agreement with MBFS in order to benefit 
from the two-year extended warranty which was worth £1,249. But Mrs P had complained 
that the salesperson hadnt made it clear as to the interest rate that would be applied to 
this agreement, and that had she been aware, she wouldnt have taken it out.
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, MBFS, as the credit provider, can be 
held responsible for things said by the dealer in the pre-negotiation stage of a contract. 
That means that if the supplying dealership made a false statement of fact to Mrs P or 
misled her about its suitability then MBFS could be responsible for putting that right.
For me to be satisfied that the hire purchase agreement had been misrepresented to Mrs 
P, I would need to be satisfied that the salesperson had probably made an untrue 
statement which she had relied on when deciding whether to take out the agreement. 
Here, I hadnt seen any evidence that the salesperson told Mrs P anything that was untrue 
about the agreement. And I also hadnt seen any evidence that they misled her. Id seen 
that they correctly explained that the credit agreement had to be taken out to take 
advantage of the extended warranty and that the agreement had to remain in place for at 
least 10 months. Id also seen that Mrs P signed the Customer Declaration of 
Understanding to show she understood about this used car finance promotion and how it 
worked.
Mrs P said that there had been a lot of discussion with the salesperson about figures 
which she wasnt sure shed understood. But, I thought if she hadnt understood what 
was being said that it would be reasonable to have expected her to ask more questions 
as she was aware she was taking out a credit agreement for the car and also the 
amount of credit involved.
Id seen that Ms P had been aware that interest was going to be applied to the amount 
borrowed as she said shed asked the salesperson that if she made a partial payment 
would she be charged interest on the full amount to which theyd said no. And Id seen 
that the salesperson hadnt misled Mrs P with their response, as an interest rebate was 
applied when shed paid the lump sum. The interest applied to the agreement was 
reduced from £2,904.90 to £853.84.
Looking at the hire purchase agreement, which was hand signed by Mrs P, I was satisfied 
that all the information about the cost of borrowing the £13,000 had been clearly set out on 
the first page. This had shown both the rate of interest and the total amount of interest that 
was being applied to the £13,000. So, I thought all the necessary information for Mrs P to 
understand the cost had been supplied and that it was reasonable to have expected Mrs P 
to have read this information before signing the agreement. Particularly as shed said she 
had been anxious about taking out the agreement and was unsure about the figures which 
the salesperson had been discussing with her. The agreement clearly had all the figures 
set out.Mrs P said she hadnt got a copy of the agreement. MBFS said that to obtain the 
paperwork Mrs P would have needed to register herself on its portal but she hadnt done 
so. It said emails and SMS messages had been sent out to those who hadnt registered. 
However, I thought that if Mrs P hadnt received the paperwork, it would have been 
reasonable for her to have contacted MBFS to obtain a copy.
Mrs P said that had she been aware of the cost of the credit agreement she wouldnt have 
taken it out and would have made alternative arrangements. But had she not taken the 
agreement then she wouldnt have received the two-year warranty which was worth 
£1,249 for no extra cost. And I thought this warranty had been important to her since this 
was the reason she had taken out the hire purchase agreement. And even though taking 
out the hire purchase agreement was going to cost an additional £853.84 to buying the car 
outright with savings, I thought it was fair to say Mrs P had still been at a financial 
advantage. This was because the additional cost of entering into the hire purchase was 
still less than buying the car outright and then purchasing the extended warranty as a 
separate element. Plus had Mrs P also paid another lump sum or settled the balance after 
the required 10 months, then there would have been a further interest rebate reducing the 
interest cost further.
Id seen that Mrs P has said that the warranty wasnt worth anything because when shed 
sought to make a claim it wasnt honoured. However, the reason for the decline had been 
due to Mrs P not having the car serviced by a manufacturer approved garage as per the 
warrantys terms and conditions. Im afraid I disagreed with Mrs Ps view as to the value of 
the warranty as it wasnt unusual for warranties to have these types of terms and 
conditions about the maintenance and repairs carried out on the car and that didnt mean 
it wasnt worth £1,249 which was the purchase cost. I understood that Mrs P had been 
provided with a copy of the warranty. Further, MBFS hadnt supplied the warranty as this 
was provided by the manufacturer so it wasnt responsible for the terms and conditions of 
the product.
When looking at all the evidence, I was satisfied that Mrs P had been provided with 
sufficient information to understand the cost of the hire purchase agreement. I didnt think 
the salesperson had said anything that wasnt true or that had been misleading about the 
agreement. Mrs P had chosen to take it out in order to take advantage of the extended 
warranty. And even though she may have misunderstood the rate of interest applied, she 
had still paid less in interest than the warranty would have actually cost.
So, for the reasons given I didnt intend to uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
MBFS has agreed with my provisional view. Mrs P hasnt asked me to reconsider any parts 
of my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I havent been asked to review my provisional decision by either party, I have 
looked again at the conclusions I reached on the evidence that Id been provided with. 
I havent changed my view. Im still persuaded that MBFS didnt mislead Mrs P as to the 
interest being charged on the credit agreement. Im also satisfied that Mrs P had wanted the 
extended warranty and had therefore chosen to take out the hire purchase agreement. I 
dont agree that the credit agreement had been mis-sold to her, I think the costs were all 
broken down and provided to her in the paperwork. I also disagree that the warranty wasnt of value due to the failed claim Mrs P later made. That had been rejected because Mrs P 
hadnt kept to the warrantys terms and conditions.
Im still satisfied that the cost of entering into the hire purchase agreement with MBFS, which 
meant the two-year extended warranty was provided free, had been a cheaper option than 
financing the cost of the car by another method and then purchasing the warranty 
separately. This means that taking out the hire purchase agreement and paying off the lump 
sum as she then did, wasnt something that had been to Mrs Ps financial detriment. 
So, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mrs P and for the reasons given 
above, Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
As set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman