DRN-4079089
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited handled with a 
claim he made on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S bought a new car in May 2022. Hed only had it for a few weeks when someone drove 
into the back of it and damaged the bumper. He claimed on his motor insurance with AA. 
AA wrote to Mr S promptly. It said it would send him details of who would be dealing with the 
claim. And it mentioned that due to events beyond its control, there were industry-wide 
delays in getting parts, which might affect how quickly the car could be repaired. It said its 
repairer would contact Mr S shortly to discuss that further.
Mr S says he didnt receive any further communication from AA until September 2022. This 
followed him contacting AA to say that the manufacturer of his car had confirmed that the 
part needed to mend his car was available. AA emailed Mr S later that day to say it had 
asked its repairer to contact Mr S to explain the delay. But he says the repairer didnt call as 
promised.
When Mr S brought his complaint to us, nearly six months had passed since the accident, 
and his car still hadnt been repaired. He said hed phoned AA around 20 times and had had 
to wait 45 minutes for his calls to be answered.
Mr S says he was frustrated to discover in November 2022 that the scheduled repairs had 
been cancelled but he hadnt been told. AA then agreed, in early December 2022, that he 
could use his own repairer to carry out the necessary work. Whats more, AA would provide 
him with a hire car while the repairs were being carried out  something which it had 
previously explained that his policy didnt allow for if he used his own repairer. Mr S believes 
AA could have agreed to that months before it did. And he says the manufacturer of the car 
has told him that AAs approved repairer didnt order the part.
In response to Mr Ss complaint, AA said it would always try to order new parts from the 
cars manufacturer to provide a guaranteed warranty. But the covid pandemic and other 
world events beyond its control meant that it had become difficult to get key components for 
cars.
As far as communication is concerned, AA said it can only provide updates when significant 
movement occurs on the claim. It said it would continue to chase its repairer, and had left 
notes on the claim file to make sure that if anything did happen, Mr S would be informed. It 
went on to apologise that the service Mr S had received had fallen short of its expected 
service standards, but it said it wasnt upholding his complaint. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he didnt think AA had done enough to manage the claim and to keep Mr S 
informed about the problems with the repairs. In the circumstances, he thought it was 
reasonable for Mr S to arrange the repairs himself, and for AA to cover the cost. And he 
thought it should pay Mr S £150 to compensate him for its poor handling of his claim.
AA didnt agree with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for much the same reasons as the investigator 
did.
AA has commented in response to the investigators view that it was aware that Mr S had a 
booking-in date for his car to be repaired and knew that the repairer was waiting for parts. It 
says that if the repair date needed to be changed it was for the repairer to notify Mr S. And it 
says that there was no update it could have provided to Mr S which hadnt already been 
given. It acknowledges that a booking for the repair was cancelled in September 2022, but 
says this was because its repairer was still waiting for the replacement part. The repair 
would have been re-booked once the part was available. 
AA says it doesnt see what more it could have done. And its reiterated that since the 
necessary part wasnt available, it wouldnt have made a difference whether the car was with 
its approved repairer or Mr Ss own repairer.
I accept that the delay in getting the parts was beyond AAs control. And although Mr S told 
us that his own repairer initially said that the necessary spare part should be available within 
a few days, that appears not to have been the case. 
But I consider that AA could have done more to keep Mr S informed. I acknowledge that 
there may have been nothing it could have said other than to tell him that the repairer was 
still waiting for the parts. But regular updates, even if they couldnt say more than that, would 
at least have reassured Mr S that his claim hadnt been forgotten about. 
As it was, it was left to Mr S to spend a significant amount of time on the phone, chasing AA 
for updates over a prolonged period. And I think the £150 recommended by the investigator 
is reasonable to reflect that inconvenience.
I acknowledge that Mr Ss main concern is to have his car repaired. That cant be done until 
the necessary spare part is available. I sympathise with Mr Ss frustration at the delay in 
carrying out the repair. And I consider AAs offer to let him use his own repairer to be 
reasonable. Putting things right
To put things right, AA should:
Settle Mr Ss claim in accordance with the policy terms
Allow Mr S to have the car repaired by his own repairer, and if he chooses to do so, 
reimburse Mr S for the cost of the repair 
Pay Mr S £150 to reflect the trouble and upset hes experienced.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman