DRN-4274106
The complaint
X complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc, trading as M&S Bank, failed to 
credit payments to his account and have got the balance of the account wrong.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
X originally complained that a payment of £319.14 had been mislaid and M&S Bank made a 
number of mistakes when trying to reallocate the payment to Xs account/s. Those mistakes 
spanned a period of several months, and I can understand X would have been confused 
about the balance on the account in the meantime. I cant see that, when trying to remedy 
the situation, M&S Bank considered the interest that may have accrued as a result of the 
payment not being credited correctly, and I cant see that they advised X about the status of 
any reports they may have made to his credit file about missed payments.
Since the complaint has been referred to this Service it has become apparent that a further 
payment of £401.13, made in December 2022, was also not credited to Xs account. That 
was something M&S bank werent aware of when they provided their final response on Xs 
complaint, but they have now been prepared to consider it. M&S Bank have suggested the 
£401.13 payment went missing because the bank that X paid the bank giro credit in through 
had mis- keyed the account number and got a digit wrong, but X says the bank he used 
have explained they use an imaging device to make the bank giro credit and that they didnt 
need to key the information and couldnt, therefore, have made an error. While they dispute 
how the payment went missing, M&S Bank have been prepared to accept our investigators 
view that the payment, along with the £319.14 payment, should be allocated to the account 
and backdated to the date it was paid. Theyve agreed to rework any interest due and to 
remove any fees incurred as a result of the missed payments.
Putting things right
M&S Bank should put the account back into the position it would have been, if the £319.14 
and £401.13 payments hadnt gone missing and had credited the account on the days X 
paid them. That will mean that any interest or late payment fees associated with those 
payments should be removed.
Once M&S Bank have put the accounts right they should remove any adverse reports they 
may have made to Xs credit file in relation to those missed payments.
X has experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of these issues. He has, for 
instance, had to escalate his complaint to this Service when I think it could have been 
resolved earlier. Hes also explained how frustrating he found it for the issues not to be 
resolved and I can see there was more than one final response required in order to clarify 
matters. M&S Bank have already offered £130 in compensation, but I dont think that goes 
far enough, in the circumstances, and Im asking them to pay X a further £70.
Since our investigator provided his view on this complaint it seems M&S Bank have been 
trying to resolve matters for X. Ive seen copies of letters chasing outstanding debts and a 
letter dated 18 September 2023 that tries to explain the current account balance. I dont think 
that letter adequately explains where the balance M&S Bank say is outstanding, comes 
from. X has asked for a breakdown of the transactions M&S Bank claim were unpaid and 
has asked for a careful audit of the November and December 2022 payments to 
demonstrate exactly what has been paid and what hasnt. That seems a reasonable request.
It may be that after the accounts are reconstructed X still disputes the outstanding debt (if 
there is one). If thats the case he will need to set out why he continues to dispute the 
balance to M&S Bank and allow them to respond. This Service is only allowed to consider 
complaints after the business has provided their view. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc to:
Put the account back into the position it would have been, if the £319.14 and £401.13 
payments hadnt gone missing and had credited the account on the days X paid 
them.
Remove any interest or fees associated with the assumption the payments hadnt 
been made.
Pay X £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused (less 
anything that has already been paid  which I think is £130).
Provide a detailed response to X explaining how the new account balance has been 
calculated, the transactions that they say have not been paid, and detailing the 
interest and fees that have been removed. 
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Xs credit file in relation to this 
issue.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman