DRN-2095103
The complaint
Mrs W says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mrs W bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a store card. Our adjudicator 
upheld the complaint but AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 24 March 2020 and said that I wasnt 
minded to uphold it. Im summarised my provisional conclusions below:
 Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because Mrs W had told us she had medical 
conditions when she bought the policy. That meant she might have had difficulty 
making a successful disability claim on the policy if shed been off work because of 
those conditions. The adjudicator thought it was unlikely Mrs W wouldve bought the 
policy if shed had better information about the exclusion that affected her.
 But Mrs W had told us shed had minimal time off work in connection with the 
conditions she suffers from. So even if shed known about the policys exclusions, I 
didnt think I could safely say Mrs W wouldve thought she would need to take time 
off work because of the conditions she suffers from. As such, I wasnt persuaded 
Mrs W wouldve made a different decision about buying the policy if shed had better 
information about the exclusion that affected her.
There were other forms of insurance available to Mrs W on the store card application 
form, but Mrs W hadnt bought those. So I thought she wouldve realised she had a 
choice about buying the PPI.
 AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her.
The policy provided a reasonable benefit. So I didnt think better information about 
the policy wouldve stopped Mrs W buying it.
Overall, I wasnt persuaded the PPI had been mis-sold.
Mrs W and AXA didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further representations from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman