DRN-2858964
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a storm damage claim she
made on her home insurance policy.
Mrs Cs represented by Mr W.
What happened
In February 2020, following strong winds and rain; Mrs C discovered water damage to her
home. She got in touch with Ageas to make a storm damage claim.
Ageas agreed thered been storm conditions on the date of the claim. It appointed its
surveyor, who Ill call V, to visit Mrs Cs home and investigate the cause of the damage. V
didnt think the damage was down to storm. It concluded that water had likely been getting in
through the flashing and had been going on for some time. It also noticed mould and staining
on the roof timbers in the loft space, which it considered supported that the damage had
happened gradually.
On this basis, Ageas turned down Mrs Cs claim. It didnt think either the roof damage or the
internal damage was due to storm. It considered whether the internal damage was covered
by the buildings accidental damage cover Mrs C has. But the policy specifically excluded
claims which were caused by wear and tear, or which happened over time. So it concluded
that the internal damage wasnt covered either.
Mrs C was unhappy with Ageas decision and she asked us to look into her complaint. While
our investigator was doing so, V inspected Mrs Cs home again, because she said shed
noticed damage in other rooms and felt it could be caused by her neighbours gutter leaking.
However, again it found that the damage was caused by wear and tear, rather than by
something the policy covered.
Ultimately, our investigator recommended that Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. Mr W
had told him that a roofer had visited Mrs Cs home in October 2020, following Vs second
visit, and had put the roof and internal damage down to storm. So the investigator
considered that Ageas should deal with the claim and that it should pay Mrs C £500
compensation for the trouble and upset its handling of the claim had caused her.
Ageas disagreed. It said that V had carried out a full internal inspection, which was so
persuasive that further external assessment of the damage had been unnecessary. It said
that V had concluded that the water was likely getting in through the flashing  but its main
point had been that there was no evidence of storm damage. It argued that water travels,
rather than pools, which would explain the spread of damage across multiple rooms. It said
that the photos V took of Mrs Cs roof showed no signs of roof damage  which should be
easy to see, like lifted or missing slates. There was evidence of heavy moss growth. It stated
that itd seen no evidence to back up Mrs Cs roofers point of view  it simply seemed to be
word of mouth. It maintained that the adverse weather had highlighted the need for
maintenance. It also queried why more weight was being placed on Mrs Cs roofers
comments, rather than both of its written reports, which were accompanied by photos and
which pre-dated the roofers visit.
I issued my provisional decision on 4 May 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought it was fair for Ageas to turn down Mrs Cs claim. I said:
As the investigator explained, when we look at complaints about storm damage, there are
three questions that we need to ask:
-Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
-Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
-Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
Ageas has set out what it means by a storm in its policy wording. It says:
By a storm, we mean strong winds of over 55mph, or damage by extreme rain or snow.
Rainfall is extreme if more than an inch falls in an hour. Snowfall is extreme if 12 inches or
more falls in a 24-hour period.
Ageas accepted at the outset that thered been a storm. Ive independently looked at local
weather reports for around the time of the claim and I can see that on 16 February 2020,
there were wind speeds of 55mph, which were accompanied by rain. So I also think there
were storm conditions around the date of the claim.
Is the damage consistent with storm?
Vs surveyor didnt think the roof damage was consistent with storm. Mr Ws testimony is that
Mrs Cs roofer said the roof was in a reasonable condition; hed replaced some slipped
slates and the back-gutter flashing at the rear of the property was lifted. So Mr W said the
roofer had considered the damage was consistent with storm. Im also mindful that internal
water damage can be consistent with water entering a property during storm conditions. So
Ive gone on to consider the third question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
In order for a storm damage claim to be covered, the main cause of the damage needs to be
the storm. As Ive set out above, it seems that there are two contradictory viewpoints about
the main cause of the damage to Mrs Cs home. Mr W told us that Mrs Cs roofer had
identified lifted flashing on the back-gutter and some slipped slates and that hed replaced
cowls on the chimney. He says that Mrs Cs roofer thought the damage was due to storm.
On the other hand, V has inspected Mrs Cs home twice  once on 13 March 2020 (around a
month after shed made the claim) and again on 5 October 2020. In March 2020, Vs
surveyor found there was evidence of mould to the roof rafters; evidence of water staining to
chimney brickwork, which would indicate that the flashing has failed and been leaking for
some time.
It concluded that: There is evidence of long-term damage within the loft areaThe roof
slates are composite which means it has been replaced, however this was done
approximately 25 years ago with no maintenance to the roof. The likely cause is the flashing
has failed around the chimney.The report was accompanied by photos, which showed mould on the rafters and the
brickwork staining. It also seems that the surveyor did carry out a thorough internal
inspection.
Vs second report, in October 2020 found that: a visual inspection of the property showed
no evidence of any storm related damage and that any adverse weather conditions
has only highlighted any pre-existing issues at the property. It too stated that there was long
term damage in the loft area. Again, this report was accompanied by photos, including of the
roof.
Its clear that Vs reports concur with the conclusion that the damage wasnt down to storm
and was long term in nature. Ageas has referred to the fact that the photos show no
evidence of slipped tiles, or lifted flashing. I agree that Id expect to see evidence of this in
the roof photos (given they were taken before Mrs Cs roofer visited) if theyd been caused
by storm. And I can see from the photos in the reports that theres evidence of mould on the
rafters and staining to the brickwork.
We asked Mrs C whether she could provide a written report from her roofer, so that I could
consider his expert opinion and also provide Ageas with a chance to comment on it.
However, Mr W has told us that the roofer doesnt want to provide anything further. In these
circumstances, while Ive taken Mr Ws recollections of what the roofer said into account,
without a written report or photos supporting his findings, its difficult for me to fairly place
more weight on them than Vs reports and photos.
So Im presently more persuaded by Vs findings as to the main cause of damage. This
suggests that the damage wasnt down to the storm conditions and happened over time. And
on this basis, I think it was fair for Ageas to rely on Vs conclusions to turn down Mrs Cs
storm claim.
Like Ageas, Ive also thought about whether Ageas should cover the internal damage under
the accidental damage cover Mrs C has. Ageas defines accidental damage as: damage that
is unexpected and unintended, caused by something sudden and which is not deliberate.
In this case, while I accept that the damage to Mrs Cs home was unintended and wasnt
deliberate; given Vs findings about the likely duration of water leaking into her home, I dont
think I could fairly say that it was sudden. And the policy also includes a list of specific things
which it doesnt cover. One of these says:
We wont pay for claims that are a result of wear and tear or anything that happens
gradually.
Again, as Ive explained, V found that the damage to Mrs Cs home had happened gradually
and seems to be down to wear and tear. So I think it was fair for Ageas to conclude that the
damage was simply not covered.
Overall, I currently think it was fair for Ageas to turn down Mrs Cs claim. Its open to her to
provide further evidence from her roofer in response to this provisional decision if she wishes
to do so.
Ive also considered what Mrs Cs said about the service she received. She says she had
difficulty in getting through to initially make her claim. Ageas said it had a high volume of
calls due to the storm conditions and the number of claims. I think this was a reasonable
explanation. While it took V three weeks to initially visit Mrs Cs home to inspect the damage,
I dont think this was an unreasonable timeframe. And the reports Ive seen lead me to think
that Vs surveyor did carry out a thorough investigation at that point. So Im not planning toaward Mrs C any compensation.
I asked both parties to send me any further information or evidence they wanted me to look 
at.
Ageas had nothing further to add.
Mr W said that Mrs C reluctantly accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided me with any further evidence or comments, I 
see no reason for me to change my provisional conclusions. 
So while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C, my final decision is the same as my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons. Im satisfied that it was fair for Ageas to turn down Mrs 
Cs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman