DRN-3642581
The complaint
Mr D is complaining that Tesco Personal Finance PLC hasnt refund an amount he paid for 
flights. He holds it responsible as the credit card provider.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr D bought flights from an airline  who I shall refer to as N  to fly to 
and from America. He was due to fly in July 2020.
In June 2020, N cancelled his flights and refunded what he paid for them. However Mr D 
was unhappy as he says he bought three internal flights to travel around America which he 
said he couldnt use due to N cancelling the flights and he says those internal flights were 
uncancellable. So Mr D contacted Tesco to request a refund under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). Tesco didnt uphold Mr Ds Section 75 claim, so he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Mr D hasnt disputed that the company that he contracted with to provide the internal flights 
has done anything wrong and he hasnt disputed those transactions. So I wont comment 
further in regards to this in this decision. Mr D holds N responsible for this loss and believes 
Tesco is ultimately liable for this loss as the finance provider.
Generally, where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, the 
card provider can consider the dispute under two guises  chargeback and S75. I would 
usually expect the card provider to consider both avenues. However, the rights under 
chargeback are capped at the amount paid on the card  i.e. doesnt cover consequential 
losses. So Mr D wouldnt be able to recover the cost of the internal flights under chargeback 
through a dispute in respect to the transaction paid to N. Mr D doesnt dispute this either. 
The issue for me to decide, therefore, is whether I think Tesco is liable for these losses 
under Section 75. I dont think it is and Ill now explain why.
Mr D paid for ticket on his Tesco credit card. Section 75 sets out that in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, Tesco is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by M. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
The key issue in respect to this matter here is that N has had to breach the terms of the 
contract for Tesco to have any liability in this matter. Mr D says Tesco needs to refund the 
cost of the internal flights because he suffered this loss because N cancelled his fights. But, 
the terms of carriage for his contract with N sets out that its take all reasonable measures 
to carry you [Mr D] and your Baggage in the most expedient manner. However, the contract 
is silent on when N can cancel a flight. But it does set out that, where it is required to cancel 
the flight, Mr Ds rights are limited to those set out in law and are limited to the cost of the 
flight.
Mr D thinks its unfair that N has limited its liability to the cost of the ticket  i.e. excluded 
liability for consequential loss. And he thinks this would be considered an unfair term. I 
acknowledge Mr Ds comments in respect to this and theyre not without merit. But I dont 
think I need to make a finding on whether N (and in turn Tesco) is liable for consequential 
losses because I dont think there is a consequential loss that N would be liable for. Ill 
explain why.
Where a claimant is holding another party liable for consequential losses following a breach 
of contract, I have to think about three questions: 
1. Is the loss a direct loss as a result of the breach of contract;
2. Is the loss reasonably foreseeable; and
3. Did the claimant take reasonable steps to mitigate his losses?
I dont think the loss was a direct result of Ns breach of contract. In thinking about this, I 
need to ask whether Mr D would have suffered this loss had N not cancelled the flight. And 
this is the key here. Owing to the restrictions caused by Covid-19, apart from in very specific 
circumstances, Mr D wasnt able to travel to America at the time his flights were due to go 
ahead. Its also pertinent to point out that its likely that its these travel restrictions that 
meant N had to cancel the flight. So, even if N hadnt cancelled the flights, Mr D would not 
have been able to travel to America. Consequently, he was always going to suffer the loss of 
the cost of these flights. So I cant say the loss is down to the actions of N. It follows, 
therefore, that I dont think Tesco is liable for the cost of the internal flights.
Tesco responded to say it agreed with my provisional decision and didnt have anything 
further to add. Mr D didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided me with anything further to think about, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion to the one I reach in my provisional decision. So I dont uphold 
this complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman