DRN-3304107
The complaint
Mr W complained about the way Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) calculated the
bonuses attached to his pension policy and the interest applied to the payment he received.
What happened
Aviva said Mr Ws policy started on 23 June 1988 and he would be leaving on 23 April 2020
when he is 75. Mr W was told that the terminal bonus was calculated in whole years. It was
calculated in calendar years so would be 32 years but Mr W thought it was 31 years. He
complained that the annuity process was not explained properly to him and that the
wording in relation to the terminal bonus and how it was calculated wasnt clear. Mr W also
complained about the rate of interest applied to his fund from the date of disinvestment on
18 March 2020 to the date of payment on 1 April 2020. It applied a rate of 1.1% while the
current bank of England base rate was 0.1%.
Aviva didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint as it said it had followed the correct process. It later
sent Mr W £100 cheque because its call centre couldnt help with both of his policies and it
only sent one set of discharge forms. Also, when it dealt with his complaint it didnt deal with
the terminal bonus issues and didnt apologise for the error with the discharge forms. It said
it received a transfer request via Origo options on 16 March 2020 and payment was made 
on 1 April 2020. The pension was disinvested on 18 March and paid within the expected
timeframe.
I issued a provisional decision in this case.
I said that I had seen the guide to the with profits sub- fund for Mr Ws fund. This said The 
final bonus is based on the year in which you invested and the point at which you leave the 
Sub-Fund. Based on this it seemed that Mr W got credit for each calendar year he was in 
the fund whether or not it is a complete year. So, I didnt think Aviva has done anything 
wrong in calculating the bonus in the way it did.
To make the transfer Aviva needed to encash his policy. I would expect his funds to remain
in cash while the remainder of the transfer process is completed. Aviva had confirmed that
the 1.1% rate used during this time is part of policy terms so I think it is correct that this rate
is applied for so long as it was performing in accordance with its service standards. However
for any period outside of that the higher rate of 8% per annum simple used by this service
should be applied to reflect the fact he was deprived of use of his money for any such time.
I set out the timeline of events below supplied by Aviva.
4 February 2020: Mr W wanted to take an annuity - unhappy that he needs to have
annuity pack first
5 February 2020: Aviva Introduction letter issued to Mr W
5 February 2020  Retirement Option pack issued
17 February 2020  Transfer pack issued to Mr W
16 March 2020  Mr W asked for two sets of open market option forms to be posted 1st
class Today
16 March 2020  Retirement Option Pack issued
17 March 2020  Transfer pack issued to Mr W
17 March 2020  Open market options request received on Origo Options from another
provider on 16 March 2020 
Tax Free Cash payment made to Mr W and balance payment to new provider
Tax Free Cash payment of £7,963.41 to Mr W- by CHAPS on 1 April 2020 ( the
scheduled completion date for Origo was 28 March 2020- for receipt of Funds and they
received it on 1 April 2020)
30 March 2020 - Chaser call for 'transfer' - ( CHAPS payment made 1 April 2020).
I asked Aviva to confirm it complied with its service standards for each of these steps.
Avia said that the transfer request was received on 16 March 202 at 16.07 with a scheduled
turnaround of 28 March 2020. The units in the sub fund were cancelled on 18 March 2020.
The transfer was completed on 1 April 2020 (paid by CHAPS and received the same day),
so there was a delay as the next working day for payments was Monday 30 March 2020.
It accepted that Mr W would have suffered a loss of one day of additional interest. This delay
meant that Mr W was deprived of use of his money. I thought the appropriate rate to apply 
was the rate used by this service being 8% per annum simple for the additional day of delay. 
I said that because it was outside of the normally contractual time for dealing with the 
request. As Aviva accepted there was a delay I could consider an award for distress and 
inconvenience.
This was to reflect the impact on Mr W and not to punish Aviva. Having considered this I
proposed an award of £50 (in addition to the £100 already paid) would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances to reflect the additional day of delay. I invited Mr W to make 
any further representations he wished regarding the impact of this day of delay on him. I 
would consider any further comments he wanted to make about the impact of the delay, 
before I made my final decision.
I proposed to direct that Aviva should pay Mr W £50 for distress and inconvenience and an
amount equal to 8% per annum simple for one day on the tax-free cash and the amount paid
to the new provider.
As the delay was only one day and the amount of interest will be relatively small, I suggested 
it is paid direct to Mr W.
Aviva accepted my provisional decision.
Mr W said he accepted the £50. He commented that if the credit was per calendar year then 
it would be 33 years. He also said he had never seen reference to the 1.1% rate. His original 
policy was not with Aviva so why would it apply to his policy.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr Ws point about the calculation producing an answer of 33 years. I asked Aviva 
some further questions about the approach to calculations and the possible answers of 31, 
32 or 33 years. Aviva said there were no formal documents specifying the precise terms of 
the terminal bonus calculations. The actuarial methodology ensured members leaving the 
with profits fund received a fair proportion of the underlying assets, taking into account 
regular bonuses already added. It set out some further details which I sent on to Mr W.
It would seem that I was wrong to interpret the wording that The final bonus is based on the 
year in which you invested and the point at which you leave the Sub-Fund to mean that Mr 
W got credit for each calendar year he was in the fund whether or not it is a complete year. 
As there was no formal documentation setting out Avivas approach, I cant reasonably 
conclude that Aviva had made an error in its calculation and cant therefore make any 
direction about it.
I note what Mr W says about the 1.1% interest but Aviva has confirmed it wasnt a policy 
term but a policy of its business. I also raised with Aviva the issue of inconsistent payment of 
interest between Mr Ws two policies. Having done so Aviva agreed it would apply the 8% 
simple interest rate for the full period during which the money was disinvested until the day it 
was actually paid to Mr W being 18 March 2020 to 1 April 2020.
Putting things right
 I am of the view that it is reasonable to direct that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should 
pay Mr W £50 for distress and inconvenience and interest on the basis below. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should within 30 
days of this service notifying it that Mr W has accepted this decision, pay Mr W:-
1. £50 for distress and inconvenience and 
2. an amount equal to 8% per annum simple for the period from 18 March 2020 to 1 
April 2020 on the tax-free cash and the amount paid to the new provider.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman