DRN-2222553
The complaint
Mr N says he hasnt received fair redress from Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada 
(U.K.) Limited for the unsuitable advice he received to transfer benefits from his occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) and to opt out of the scheme, and to open a personal pension with 
Confederation Life.
Mr N is represented by Fair Return Legal Services Limited (FR).
What happened
In 1988 Mr N received advice from Sun Life (trading as Confederation Life) to transfer 
benefits from and opt out of his OPS scheme, and to open a personal pension policy 
instead.
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board (SIB), established 
an industry-wide review of certain pension business carried out by authorised firms between 
29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. It was generally known as the "Pensions Review". 
Consumers were invited to have a review  the intention being to avoid the need for them to 
bring complaints later about what had happened.
Sun Life wrote to Mr N in October 1995 and offered him a review of his pension transfer. He 
agreed and the exercise took place over a period of nearly three years. It wrote to him on 16 
September 1998 with the results of the review which had compared the benefits of his OPS 
with those projected to be delivered by his personal pension plan. The letter concluded the 
advice hed received hadnt been fully compliant with regulations.
To put matters right Sun Life said:
As we are unable to secure your benefits in the occupational scheme, we propose to make 
redress to you by providing you with additional benefits in a new personal pension policy 
which, together with your existing fund, we believe to be broadly equivalent in value to the 
benefits you would have received from the occupational scheme. Using the assumptions 
referred to previously, this amounts to 25.22% of the total fund value as at 1 August 1998. 
We are therefore offering to pay this percentage into the new personal pension. The policy 
charging structure relating to allocation rates, the difference between the offer and bid price 
of units and future management fees have been taken fully into account in our calculation of 
the amount which we propose to allocate to the new policy.
Despite Sun Lifes attempt to make contact with Mr N about whether he intended to accept 
the offer, he never signed an agreement. By June 1999 Sun Life decided to establish a new 
pension plan with the redress it had proposed, and it wrote to Mr N to tell him this is what it 
had done.
In July 2019 Mr Ns representative complained to Sun Life on his behalf. It said the original 
advice to transfer had been unsuitable and that the redress it had provided had been 
inadequate. It said this Service would have to consider the merits of Sun Lifes advice to Mr 
N to transfer out of his OPS, even though it had already been subject to the Pensions 
Review. And that Sun Life should use the Financial Conduct Authoritys latest redress 
guidelines to make sure he was put back into the position hed have been in had he not 
transferred his pension.
FR noted Mr N had never accepted the redress offer made by Sun Life, yet it had set-up a 
redress policy in 1999. It said the offer was originally made in 1998, based on a calculation 
that was carried out at that time. But the redress policy hadnt been set-up until 1999, around 
9 months after the calculation was carried out. It also noted that in its letter to Mr N dated 7 
June 1999, the final two paragraphs stated:
In order to bring your case to a conclusion, we propose to augment your policy as detailed 
in that offer letter (dated 16 September 1998). This will take effect immediately and the file 
will be closed. Should this course of action not be acceptable, then you will have the right to 
have your file reopened in the future and the case reviewed.
FR says there was no time limit imposed by Sun Life in respect of the future case review it 
offered  and Mr N now wanted his situation looked at.
Sun Life said it was in regular contact with Mr N throughout the review process and informed 
him of the outcome on 16 September 1998. This confirmed its advice hadnt been compliant 
with the regulations and it made him an offer to settle. It had conducted all these matters in 
accordance with the regulators guidance. 
Sun Life said its offer letter invited Mr N to make contact to discuss the outcome. And if he 
felt the offer wasnt acceptable, he could ask for the matter to be referred to its complaints 
procedure. It telephoned him on 18 September 1998 to check that hed received the offer. Mr 
N confirmed he had and that hed be writing to the complaints manager.
Sun Life says after chasing matters on several occasions, including by phone and post 
(including the use of recorded delivery), Mr N didnt respond. It said, in order to ensure he 
received the redress he was entitled to and to bring the matter to a close, it informed Mr N in 
June 1999 that a redress plan had been set-up for his benefit. This was based on the offer it 
had made in September 1998.
Sun Life says it received no further communication from Mr N until 2007 when he made 
contact to take the benefits from his pension plans. It provided retirement quotations for all 
his plans and the payments were processed on 20 August 2007, when he turned 60.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. FR disagreed, it said:
[Mr N] does not accept what you have said. He never accepted any offer of redress. It was 
his right not to accept the offer.
According to the FCA's DISP rules, the FOS should now consider the merits of the 
complaint that we submitted on [Mr Ns] behalf. If it is found that the advice to transfer out 
of [his OPS] was unsuitable, then it is the FCA's FG17/9 guidance and related 
assumptions that should be used to determine appropriate redress.
So, Mr Ns complaint has been passed to me to review and to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Wheres theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
The Pension Review
The Pension Review was designed to be a one-off exercise and was implemented to rectify 
widespread mis-selling and to put customers back as far as reasonably possible into the 
position they wouldve been in had they not received inappropriate advice. Essentially then, 
it was meant to deal with the main point FR raised in its response to the Investigators view  
the unsuitability of advice customers received.
The methodology for putting things right was set by the regulator of the time. The financial 
business firstly had to determine whether it was possible for the customer to be reinstated 
into their previous defined benefit scheme. If that wasnt possible, the financial business 
needed to assess the financial loss and pay a lump sum pension contribution.
Several assumptions, based on what the regulator thought were fair at the time, were used 
in the redress calculations  including the expected future growth rate of the pension funds 
to produce the required benefits at retirement.
In many cases the assumed growth rates used in the calculations didnt materialise. This, 
combined with annuity rates falling, had an impact on the benefits provided by personal 
pensions. So, although it was thought the compensation paid following the Pension Review 
plus the existing value of the pension would be high enough to match the OPS benefits at 
retirement, this hasnt been the case for many consumers.
However, this Service wouldnt ask a firm to re-calculate a consumers loss because the 
compensation previously paid didnt in the end make up for the loss theyve now suffered. 
That would effectively mean re-running the Pension Review. So, while FR might be correct 
the redress paid to Mr N in 1999 didnt put him in the same position he wouldve been in but 
for the transfer of his OPS benefits and the impact of opting out of that scheme, that alone 
doesnt mean I should direct a reassessment of the compensation hes received.
I recognise that many people like Mr N will feel this is unfair. But changing market conditions 
that werent foreseen when the Pension Review was being undertaken, isnt a reason for this 
Service to require compensation paid under that process to be undone and recalculations 
made.
The Review was designed to provide finality to both parties and to draw a line under the 
matter  businesses could provide redress for mis-selling knowing that they wouldnt be 
liable for future compensation; and consumers could be reassured that the mis-selling had 
been recognised and put right at that point in time using what were considered to be 
reasonable assumptions without the need to revisit the matter many years later.
The new FCA guidance for reviewing pension transfersIn 2017 the FCA issued new guidance  known as FG17/9. This was designed for 
complaints upheld about occupational pension scheme transfers received after 3 August 
2016 or for complaints received before this date that hadnt been dealt with in full and final 
settlement already.
It was initially envisaged that any case that fell within the Pension Review period would be 
excluded from the updated guidance. But after the consultation period, FG17/9 said some 
cases could be included  where the financial business didnt review the relevant pension 
transaction in accordance with the regulatory standards at the time and/or where the 
particular circumstances of the case werent addressed by those standards.
Mr Ns representative argued the review carried out by Sun Life between 1995-1998 wasnt 
done correctly, for the reasons Ive already set out. It says this shows its review was invalid 
and so the redress due to Mr N should be recalculated using the FG17/9 guidelines.
Sun Lifes position was that it had already settled the matter in respect of the unsuitable 
advice as part of the Pension Review, which it had carried out according to the requirements 
of the regulators at the time.
I think its helpful at this point to set out this Services usual approach when errors have been 
found in Pension Review calculations. For example, where an incorrect date of birth, sex, 
marital status, pension transfer value has been used  I would normally direct the business 
involved to correct that error (but as at the date of the review, not now).
This is because the Pension Review bulletin five said that where an offer was made and 
accepted in good faith and it was later found the calculation contained an error, the re-
calculation should be done using the same effective date as the original calculation.
But Mr N never signed a form accepting Sun Lifes offer
Both parties have acknowledged a peculiarity of Mr Ns case. He never signed an agreement 
accepting Sun Lifes offer as redress for what had gone wrong. And its offer letter indicated 
that if he didnt agree with the proposal to put things right, hed have the right to have his file 
reopened in the future and his case reviewed. Ive thought carefully about this matter.
I note that where a consumer receives pension review letters but doesnt respond, despite 
reminders, they werent included in the pension review. In this instance we often think the 
letters were sufficiently clear such that the consumer wouldnt have had difficulty 
understanding the importance of engaging. And had they replied, the business would have 
carried out a review. 
And as the Pension Review was wound up by 2004, this wouldve completed more than 
three years before complaints brought against a business now. So, often, subject to the 
circumstances of a given case, we think a consumer wouldve found out the outcome of the 
review the business wouldve carried out more than three years ago. The outcome letter 
would most likely have said whether the business considered its advice complied with the 
rules at the time and/or caused the consumer to suffer a loss.
So at that point, the consumer in question ought reasonably to have known whether they 
had cause for complaint. As the advice would also have been given more than six years ago, 
the complaint would then often be time-barred. The point here being that the opportunity to 
bring complaints isnt open ended. And by not doing so some customers will have lost out on 
compensation. 
Mr Ns case is different of course. Although its apparent he was somewhat frustrated by Sun 
Lifes approaches to him for information, he did engage with the Pension Review process. For example, Ive seen a letter of authority he signed in 1995 to enable Sun Life to seek 
information from his former OPS. He also provided information necessary for the review and 
he confirmed receipt of the outcome in September 1998.
FR pointed to the letter Sun Life sent to Mr N with its redress offer at this time. This indicated 
that if he didnt agree with its proposal to put things right, hed have the right to have his file 
reopened in the future and his case reviewed. At this point Mr N seems to have considered 
bringing a complaint against Sun Life. But I cant see that this ever materialised. Nor does he 
appear to have made his position clear with regard to the offer made.
By September 1998 Mr N was aware of the outcome to Sun Lifes review of the original 
advice for him to transfer his OPS benefits and opt out of the scheme. He was aware of the 
redress proposed. But he didnt engage, despite several attempts by Sun Life using different 
approaches. 
Could Sun Life have assumed its offer had been rejected and done nothing? If it had done 
its possible this Service would be considering whether any complaint arising wouldve been 
out of jurisdiction, given applicable time limits we work to. Instead, Sun Life took a decision 
to set-up a pension policy for Mr N with the redress it thought he was owed. I think the action 
it took at this point, in the circumstances, was fair.
Further, we know when Mr N reached the age of 60 in 2007, he took the benefits from his 
different pension plans, including the one which was set-up in 1999 by Sun Life with the 
compensation it paid. Given the communications hed received about this matter, I think its 
more likely than not he knew he was drawing on those funds. And there was no further 
communication from him on the matter until 2019.
The only calculation error FR raised with us in relation to Mr Ns case concerned timing. The 
offer was originally made in 1998, based on a calculation that was carried out at that time. 
But the redress policy wasnt set-up until 1999. On balance, I agree with the Investigators 
conclusion here. I think once the offer had been made the onus was on Mr N to decide what 
he wanted to do. The delays between the offer and setting up the plan were of his making, 
and I dont think it would be reasonable to hold Sun Life accountable for this.
This Service isnt a checking service, we do not employ actuaries to check Pension Review 
calculations. However, Ive considered the information we do have  and endeavoured to 
understand what Sun Life and its actuaries did at the time and why. And Ive then compared 
that with the relevant guidelines. Having done so, the calculations appear in line with the 
guidelines set out under the Pension Review and theres nothing obviously wrong. Neither 
has FR evidenced any such problem.
The Pension Review process was subject to strict internal and external controls. The 
regulator checked a sample of cases from firms to make sure that they were carrying out the 
review process correctly. And had there been a problem with a particular approach taken 
then, I think the regulator wouldve addressed this at the time.
The Pension Review was a one-off exercise. Mr N agreed to take part in it, and he received 
and has made use of the compensation Sun Life paid in respect of the unsuitable advice 
hed received. While the passage of time might suggest that payment doesnt match his 
actual loss, I havent seen anything which makes me think Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited didnt act fairly in conducting the review of its original transaction with 
Mr N in 1988, or in paying him compensation in 1999. So, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
require it to do anything further.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman