DRN-2746645
The complaint
Mr M complained that Everyday Lending Limited lent to him irresponsibly and he was 
unhappy with the way Everyday  dealt with him when he had payment problems.
What happened
Mr M was given a single loan by Everyday. Here are the loan details: 
LoanDate taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentDate paid
1 13/11/2019 £3,000 36
Months 
(later 
extended)£226.30 Not paid
In brief summary, Mr M said that the main reason for his complaint related to the affordability 
and sustainability of the loan. He said that at the time of being offered the loan:
he was in arrears on his mortgage
he had six credit cards, all used for cash advances, which were at their limit
his priority bills were in arrears
the loan was for a car purchase, not debt consolidation as Everyday had said. 
Mr M also told us that after being financially impacted by the pandemic when hed had a 
drop in income, he told us that Everyday agreed a payment plan then didnt honour the 
terms. As a result of all this, Mr M said his debts spiralled out of control and he is in financial 
hardship.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms complaint. She thought that Everyday did 
sufficient checks before agreeing to provide this loan and that it made a fair lending decision. 
And she also didnt think Everyday acted unfairly towards Mr M in relation to his other 
complaint points. So she didnt feel that we should uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M didnt agree with our adjudicators view. He sent us a copy of his credit file and 
bank statements for another of his accounts showing information he felt Everyday  
hadnt properly taken into account. Mr M felt that Everyday shouldve made further 
enquiries before agreeing to lend  and had it done so, it shouldve realised that the 
loan wasnt affordable. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the view of the adjudicator. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant to the outcome. I havent commented on everything Mr M has said during the 
course of this complaint where theres nothing more I can usefully add to what our 
adjudicator has said in response already. But I will deal with all the main points that have an 
impact on the outcome of this complaint. And I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done 
will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind when deciding Mr Ms complaint.
There are some general principles and questions I need to think about when deciding 
whether to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a 
borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to 
satisfy itself that the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without 
needing to borrow elsewhere. The rules dont say what a lender should look at before 
agreeing to lend. But reasonable and proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower who is 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
 the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Everyday did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mr M and thought carefully about the following key questions:  Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Everyday do proportionate checks 
Before lending to Mr M, Everyday asked Mr M for information about his financial situation, 
such as his monthly income and his outgoings, including what he was spending on other 
credit. Using this information, Everyday was able to see what his monthly budget typically 
looked like. And it worked out what he could afford to borrow. As this was the first loan Mr M 
had taken out with Everyday, Mr M didn't have any track record with the lender that 
shouldve alerted Everyday to any underlying money problems. It wasnt an unusually large 
loan, given that it was more or less the amount he could depend on earning in the months 
when he didnt receive a bonus. 
Everyday asked Mr M for details of his usual take home pay and recorded a figure 
around £2,903. Everyday also asked Mr M about his normal monthly spending and it 
carried out a credit check and used an online affordability tool before deciding to 
approve the loan.
Ive seen a copy of the credit report Everyday obtained when it considered Mr Ms 
application. This indicated that when he applied for this loan, Mr M had 8 revolving accounts 
with a total outstanding balance of £2,912. That appeared to be consistent with what Mr M 
had told Everyday about his other borrowing  and I dont think this amount of debt wouldve 
been enough to cause a lender any concern  especially bearing in mind Mr Ms salary. 
Everyday also looked at bank statements showing what was happening on Mr Ms main 
bank account  the one his salary was paid into  in the months running up to him 
taking out this loan. 
Everyday worked out that the monthly contractual instalments that he had signed up to 
make on this loan should have been affordable for him. Looking at the information 
Everyday had gathered and the figures it worked on, that seems right to me. After allowing 
for his main monthly outgoings plus an amount around £104 that Mr M said he was 
spending on other credit, Everyday calculated that Mr M should still have had around 
£1,200 left after paying for the loan it provided.
I appreciate that this possibly didnt fully reflect Mr Ms actual financial situation. But I dont 
think that the information Everyday had collected about Mr Ms financial situation was 
enough to prompt a reasonable lender to think it might need to do further or more in-depth 
checking to ensure that it had a proper understanding of his finances.
Looking at the credit report it has sent, I dont think there was any particularly adverse 
information shown on Mr Ms credit checks. Mr M had no court judgements or recent record 
of defaults or any other significant negative markers recorded against him at the time 
Everyday approved this loan. Its worth remembering that a lender might only see a small 
portion of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised or not up to 
date. I also understand that not all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit 
reference agencies. So a lenders credit check often wont show all the information someone 
could see on their own credit file. 
I think its fair to say that the bank statements Mr M provided to Everyday do flag up some 
issues of concern to me. But it also looks like Everyday did pick up on these entries and it seems to have asked Mr M to explain these. I say this because the copy bank statements it 
has provided are annotated with information I assume must have come from Mr M.  
For instance, I can see that his bank statements showed, as Mr M has said, that he 
was making significant transfers into another bank account. But hed also told Everyday 
that this was an account he used for savings. And whilst Everyday could also see that 
hed had some missed payments on various accounts, including his mortgage, it looks 
like Mr M sent Everyday information confirming that hed since brought his mortgage 
account up to date. Given the type of lending, I think a lender would reasonably expect 
it might see information like this on its customers credit history. Broadly speaking, 
I think Everyday wouldve been reassured that Mr Ms debt seemed to be reasonably 
well managed. 
There were also a series of large cash withdrawals shown on his bank statements 
which it looks like Everyday asked Mr M to explain. It appears that he said this was 
money to pay builders. 
And there was also a large payment into the account from another person  £3000 
deposited on 4 October 2019. Mr M has told us that he borrowed this money from a 
family friend which needed to be returned. I've thought carefully about whether 
Everyday processed this information in the way Id expect a responsible lender to do.
From what I can see, it looks like Mr M told Everyday this was money from his cousin. 
But I cant see that Mr M explained that the money was in fact a loan that needed to be 
repaid or what had been agreed in terms of a repayment plan. I dont think Everyday 
wouldve had any particular reason to think that this was additional debt that Mr M 
would have to quickly repay or that it needed to factor this in to its affordability 
calculations. The amount of surplus income it appeared that Mr M shouldve had left 
over after paying for all the debt hed declared and what Everydays checks suggested 
he had to pay was still ample to allow for some significant additional debt. 
Im also mindful that Mr M had actually received extra bonus money in October 2019 
when hed been paid ££4,601.10. 
And it appears that Mr M had told Everyday that the purpose of the loan was debt 
consolidation  in other words, that he planned to use the loan to repay other credit in 
order to reduce his monthly credit spending. Mr M has disputed this  but I think its 
reasonable for me to rely on what the business recorded as the loan purposes at the 
time as Mr M may well have forgotten what he said. In any event, it makes no overall 
difference to the outcome as the information hed declared and the details Everyday 
had gathered all suggested he was well able to afford this loan  whether or not he 
used it to settle other debt.
Ive thought carefully about whether Everyday shouldve pressed Mr M to provide bank 
statements for some of the other accounts it could see he held  and in particular, 
whether it shouldve insisted on seeing more information about the account into which 
he was regularly making big payments. It appears that it requested this information but 
when Mr M declined to provide bank statements for that account Everyday processed 
his application on the basis of the information it held. 
Mr M has sent me bank statements for that account. I can see these reveal details of 
further debts that didnt show on Everydays credit checks and that Mr M hadnt 
declared. But, on balance, I dont think its fair to say that Everyday shouldve realised it 
needed to see this information before being in a position to lend fairly. In coming to this 
view, I've taken into account that Mr M was fully engaged in the lending process and he had the opportunity to provide this information to Everyday  which he resisted doing. 
And on the face of it, the explanations he provided when Everyday pressed him for 
more information about his financial situation wouldve seemed reasonable  and 
sufficient for it to make a fair lending decision without needing to see more information 
or doing more to verify what Mr M had said about his finances.
Im sorry that Mr M had a problem with debt and that making the repayments on this loan 
turned out to be difficult for him. But wed expect Everyday to decide Mr Ms lending 
application based on the information it was reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. 
I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Everyday to give Mr M this loan on the 
basis of what it knew about his financial situation at the time from the credit checks it did and 
the information he gave about his income and outgoings. 
And from what Ive seen from its checks, bearing in mind that borrowers applying for loans of 
this type often have other credit on their record and sometimes an impaired credit history, 
there wasnt anything that Id expect a reasonable lender to be unduly concerned about. 
Bearing in mind also that it was early in the lending relationship, on balance I think the 
checks were enough for Everyday to agree to lend. So I havent seen enough to be able to 
uphold Mr Ms irresponsible lending complaint. 
has Everyday acted unfairly in any other way?  
Mr M was unhappy about the way Everyday treated him when he had payment problems 
and so Ive looked carefully through the contact notes provided by Everyday to help me 
understand how it treated Mr M.
When his first monthly repayment was returned unpaid, it looks to me like Everyday did what 
I would expect a reasonable lender to do in this situation. It listened to Mr Ms explanations 
and agreed to his proposed plan to make up the payment he had missed in December 2020 
over the next couple of months. 
When the debit payment for March 2020 was unsuccessful Everyday discussed the situation 
and agreed to Mr Ms suggestion of a review at the end of the month to see if he might be 
better placed by then to pay extra towards the arrears that had built up. 
When Mr M told Everyday in April 2020 that he wanted to set up a payment plan as he 
couldnt afford the contractual loan repayments Everyday invited him to complete a detailed 
income and expenditure form to see if deferring payments might be a possibility. 
Mr M and Everyday continued to discuss Mr Ms ongoing payment issues over the course of 
the next six months or so.
In September 2020 Everyday put in place a Covid deferral which allowed Mr M extra time to 
make up the missed repayments  effectively the loan term was extended and this meant 
that Mr M was put in the same position as he had been before the pandemic. 
The interest rate on the outstanding balance was reduced and as long as repayments were 
maintained, Mr M wouldnt pay any more than he owed before Covid.
I think this was a fair response overall and I havent seen enough to make me think that 
I should uphold Mr Ms complaint that Everyday treated him unfairly or unreasonably. I appreciate that Mr M feels strongly about this complaint and that he will be 
disappointed in my decision. And Im sorry that he struggled financially and that he is 
finding it difficult to repay this loan. But I dont think Everyday could reasonably have 
foreseen this when it provided the loan to him. 
I cant fairly uphold Mr M s complaint against Everyday when it looks like it made a fair 
lending decision based on the information it had available at the time that I think it was 
reasonable for Everyday to rely on. 
And I dont think it acted towards Mr M in any other way that was unreasonable or unfair. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Everyday Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman