DRN-3043024
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1987. Mr F says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Fs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Fs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
 
The first industry code of practice for sellers of insurance was introduced in 1989, which is 
after Lloyds says it sold Mr F PPI. Prior to this there were fewer requirements on a business 
when selling insurance such as this. But Lloyds doesnt appear to have considered Mr Fs 
complaint any differently  it seems to me they have considered the sale of PPI against 
these later standards. So on the basis that it puts Mr F in a more favourable position, I have 
taken into account the later industry codes of practice in considering what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Fs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Fs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr F that he had a choice about PPI and gain his consent 
to add it to his account.
In this case, because the sale happened many years ago (Lloyds has assumed PPI 
started at the same time as Mr F took out his credit card in 1987) it no longer has a copy 
of Mr Fs credit card application. This isnt surprising given the passage of time and the 
fact that Mr Fs credit card account has been closed since 2000  businesses dont have 
to keep records indefinitely.
So taking everything into account, including the limited evidence about an event which 
happened over 30 years ago, I cant now fairly say that Lloyds likely mispresented the 
policy as not being optional or that it didnt gain Mr Fs explicit consent to add it to his 
account.
To put Mr F in the most favourable position, Lloyds has assumed this was a branch 
advised sale where it recommended the PPI to Mr F. This means Lloyds had to check 
that the PPI was right for Mr F. And the evidence about Mr Fs circumstances at the time, 
shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr 
F was eligible for the cover and he had limited means to fall back on to make the 
repayments on his credit card if he wasnt able to work - so he had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Fs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect his ability to claim (Mr F told us he suffered with something in 1999, but 
this isnt relevant here because it post-dates the sale.) - there were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. So I dont think it was wrong for 
Lloyds to have recommended it. 
Given the lack of available evidence, I accept its possible the information Lloyds gave 
Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that he likely 
chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for Mr F as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what he 
reasonably thought he was buying from the information I think he was likely given. It also 
looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr F would have declined the cover 
had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr F would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Fs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Fs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Fs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Fs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman