DRN-1579650
The complaint
Mr V complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC acted unfairly and unreasonably in claiming an 
outstanding balance due from his mortgage. He wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr V had a mortgage with Barclays. He said that he received an arrears letter which said he 
owed £57.40 due to a missed payment. Mr V disputed this and complained. The complaint 
was upheld as Barclays said it had changed the monthly payment and failed to collect the 
right amount; this meant that Mr V hadnt paid enough and Barclays agreed to write it off and 
paid £100 compensation.
Mr V was unhappy as Barclays added that the amount outstanding was actually £683.88 due 
to a missed payment around January 2018  in essence, Mr V had missed a payment when 
he cleared previous arrears and hadnt caught up. Mr V explained that he had remortgaged 
in 2019 and said hed asked his financial adviser to check nothing was outstanding to stop 
the remortgage; he believed all was in order. This was important as Mr V had been in 
arrears some years earlier. Mr V said he shouldnt have to pay this amount if Barclays had 
made a mistake and wanted more explanation; he added he hadnt received mortgage 
statements as promised. Barclays apologised and sent the statements.
Mr V complained to this service. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. He explained that when Mr V cleared his arrears in January 2018, he didnt pay the 
contractual monthly payment due in addition to the arrears themselves. The investigator 
pointed out that payment was due by the last day of the month and Mr V was paying 
generally on the 1st of each month  he was consistently paying his mortgage late. He said 
that a contemporaneous note of a call between Mr V and Barclays on 16 January 2018 
showed this had been explained to him.
The investigator agreed that no arrears letters were sent until November 2019 which led to 
the inaccurate outstanding payment being notified to Mr V as being £57.40. But he was 
satisfied that Mr V did owe £683.88 and as no report had been made to the credit reference 
agencies, Mr V hadnt suffered from the lack of notification financially. The investigator said 
that the mortgage statements Mr V had received did confirm this was what had happened 
and £100 compensation was fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused by the 
communication and service issues.
Mr V disagreed. He said he didnt accept the note of the telephone conversation in January 
2018 was accurate and he hadnt been asked for the payment in good time or told that 
paying the monthly payment late constituted arrears. Mr V also wanted to raise a complaint 
about the charges hed paid over the years. 
The investigator explained that weight was put on notes written at the time of the event and 
he didnt think Mr Vs recollection two years later was strong enough to set aside the note. 
The investigator pointed out that Mr V shouldve paid January 2018s monthly payment by 
the end of that month, but he hadnt  he paid it late and kept doing so. The investigator 
noted that the records showed Mr V had been told this was happening and he knew he was 
paying a day late and that it might affect his credit records. He also said Mr V didnt raise a 
complaint about charges to Barclays and he had to do so before this service could get 
involved; the investigator mentioned though that charges were permitted under the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage. Mr V sent further evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant look at Mr Vs new complaint about the charges as he hasnt raised a complaint with 
Barclays, and it wasnt what he raised with this service when first contacting us; simply 
sending copies of statements isnt enough to raise such a complaint. I will focus on the core 
of this complaint, which is about whether Mr V is in arrears and whether Barclays has acted 
fairly and reasonably in communicating this to him.
While this service isnt a forensic accounting service, and its for Mr V to pay for a forensic 
accountant at his own expense if he wants such an exercise undertaken, Ive reviewed the 
mortgage transactions. Mr V is required to pay the contractual monthly payment by the end 
of the month, but he consistently pays late at the start of the following month. The mortgage 
was effectively reset on 16 January 2018 when Mr V paid the outstanding arrears, having 
paid the December 2018 payment on 2 January 2018 (late). Mr V didnt pay the January 
monthly payment until February and so on. When Mr V paid the arrears on 16 January 2018, 
that months payment wasnt within the arrears balance  it wasnt part of the arrears until 
February as Mr V couldve paid it on 31 January and paid on time. Mr V hasnt caught up 
and remains in arrears as Barclays says. Its fair and reasonable for Barclays to expect the 
arrears to be cleared as Mr V promised to pay the mortgage in full and on time when taking 
out the mortgage (by accepting the mortgage offer).
I then considered whether Mr V was told or shouldve been told earlier. I do place weight on 
contemporaneous notes written at the time before any complaint was raised about the issue. 
On 16 January 2018, while Mr V was clearing his arrears, the note says:
 Mr called to check we have received his payment as he has just cleared the arrears in full  
confirmed no arrears [] Mr has direct debit monthly running for the 1st of the month, Mr 
wants to leave it as this and is aware paying a day late and may impact credit reference 
agencies
I think its more likely than not Mr V was told he was paying late; not only does the note say 
so, but its a logical time to warn him as the mortgage was being reset by the clearance of 
the arrears. 
Effectively, Mr V has been moving in and out of arrears ever since, depending on when 
within the course of a month the account was checked. This is why Barclays didnt send 
arrears letters until a separate error connected to the remortgage triggered a letter and it 
wasnt picked up when he took out a new product. Mr V hasnt suffered any financial loss as 
he does owe the money and no report to the credit reference agencies was made. 
But I think the incorrect arrears letter and failure to repeat to Mr V in writing that he was 
paying late was unfair and unreasonable, and warrants compensation for trouble and upset. 
Much of Mr Vs upset is about the delay in telling him and about matters for which I havent 
found Barclays to be at fault. Taking into account all the circumstances, I think the £100 paid 
is fair and reasonable compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or reject my decision before 
2 October 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman