DRN-1811747
The complaint
Mr C complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of his claim under his home 
insurance policy for fire damage. He doesnt think its offered him enough compensation.
What happened
In March 2018 Mr Cs home was extensively damaged by fire and water after his dishwasher 
caught fire. Hes unhappy with how Aviva handled his claim. He says its had a worse effect 
on him (and his son) than the fire itself.
When Mr C complained to Aviva, it agreed it hadnt handled parts of his claim as well as it 
shouldve. It apologised and offered Mr C £2,500 in compensation. Mr C doesnt think this is 
enough. So he brought his complaint to us.
The investigator who looked at Mr Cs complaint thought Aviva had treated him fairly. Mr C 
disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. So it has come to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Aviva handled Mr Cs claim as well as it shouldve. But I think 
Avivas offer of compensation of £2,500 is fair, as Ill explain.
Mr C is looking for much more substantial compensation than Aviva has offered  he wants 
£20,000. It seems to me Mr C is essentially claiming damages for the issues hes had. And 
claims for damages are something that a court is qualified to consider, rather than our 
service. We are an informal disputes resolution service and act as an alternative to the 
courts. We dont make awards for damages as a court might. So if Mr C is unhappy with the 
outcome of this decision, he can reject it and may wish to take legal action in pursuit of a 
claim for damages. 
From the information Ive seen, theres no doubt Mr Cs home was extensively damaged by 
the fire. And Avivas call notes from shortly afterwards describe Mr C as being very 
emotional and vulnerable. I can understand why  not only had his home been devastated 
but hed also lost a beloved pet in the fire. It mustve been incredibly distressing.
Because the fire was so devastating, very extensive repairs to Mr Cs home were needed. I 
think an inevitable consequence of this was that Mr C was going to have considerable 
distress and inconvenience before his home was back to what it should be  regardless of 
how Aviva handled his complaint. This is something that, in fairness to both Mr C and Aviva, 
I need to bear in mind when looking at Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C says Avivas claims handling has impacted him much more than the fire itself. He says 
the extensive issues hes experienced throughout the claim have given him great stress.    
Mr C has given us detailed accounts of the many things he says went wrong. These include:
Building works taking more than a year to complete and not being carried out with 
reasonable care and skill  meaning new problems arose.
Time spent in unsuitable alternative accommodation, with Mr C often having to chase 
for extensions.
Problems with the boiler, which wasnt working properly long after Mr C had come 
back to his home.
Safety issues with appliances, asbestos, gas and electricity (both before and after  
Mr C had come back to his home).
Mess and damage left by the builders when Mr C had moved back in  including 
water leaks and, on one occasion, flooding caused by Mr Cs drains being filled with 
cement.
Lies and abuse from the builders.
Delays by Aviva in dealing with problem issues as they arose and builders ignoring 
Avivas requests.
Failure by Aviva to pursue the dishwasher manufacturer for compensation.
Aviva accepts there were many failings in its handling of Mr Cs claim. In particular, it has 
acknowledged its handling of Mr Cs alternative accommodation was poor and work done in 
the kitchen and on the boiler was unsatisfactory. It has also agreed there were unacceptable 
delays in moving the claim forward as time went by and Mr C suffered unnecessary 
disturbance because many repairs werent finished when he went home.
I know Mr C feels strongly the compensation Aviva has offered isnt enough. He says most 
of his stress couldve been avoided if Aviva had taken control and been willing or able to
use suitable builders or letting agents. He says what Aviva calls minor snagging issues 
were major and were outstanding for a long time. He says issues with a possible claim he 
might have against the manufacturer of his dishwasher were more than a 
misunderstanding. And he says life in a hotel while his home was being repaired wasnt just 
inconvenient, it meant we were unable to have any normal life.
Looking at Mr Cs complaint, Im in no doubt Avivas acknowledged failings caused Mr C 
severe distress and inconvenience. But Im also in no doubt the extensive damage the fire 
had caused  and the extensive repairs that were needed as a consequence  meant a 
return to normal life for Mr C was always going to take time and would cause Mr C some 
distress and inconvenience, even if Aviva had done everything as it shouldve. 
But Aviva says it didnt do everything as it shouldve, and I agree. But, bearing in mind (as 
Ive said) its not our role to award damages, I think its offer of compensation acknowledges 
the impact it has had on Mr C has been severe. And an offer of compensation of £2,500 is 
what Id expect to see in circumstances where the distress and inconvenience has been as 
severe Mr Cs.
Ive looked at all Mr Cs points on the impact Avivas claims handling has had on him but 
they dont change my conclusions. I think Aviva is right to uphold Mr Cs complaint and I 
think its offer of compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
It is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. As I have said above, I consider the 
compensation Aviva Insurance Limited has already paid Mr C of £2,500 is fair. I make no 
further award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman