DRN-2894605
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs P complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG unfairly declined a claim they 
made under their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
On 3 February 2020 Mr and Mrs P booked a three-week long holiday abroad. They were due 
to travel on 4 March 2020. On 27 February 2020 they purchased a single trip travel 
insurance policy underwritten by URV to cover the trip. 
On 1 March 2020 Mr and Mrs Ps aunt, who Ill refer to as Ms V, sadly passed away. Mr and 
Mrs P cancelled their holiday so that they could spend time with their family and attend Ms 
Vs funeral. They made a claim under their travel insurance policy for the cost of the holiday.
URV declined their claim. It noted Ms V had passed away from a terminal illness which had 
been diagnosed in March 2019, prior to the purchase of Mr and Mrs Ps policy. It said that as 
the holiday cancellation was linked to the pre-existing medical condition of a family member 
the circumstances werent covered by its policy. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt think this was fair, so they brought their complaint to our service. 
Theyve explained that they werent aware of Ms Vs illness until they saw a copy of her 
death certificate. So they feel URV should meet their claim. To put things right theyd like 
URV to refund them the £1,952 they spent on the holiday and apologise for the additional 
stress this matter has caused them at what is already a difficult time.
Our investigator considered what had happened and noted that the policy says it wont cover 
a claim relating to the poor health or death of a family member if the policyholder knew about 
the condition and was aware that it was likely to worsen during the period of insurance. The 
investigator said that they hadnt seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs P knew about Ms Vs 
illness prior to her passing on 1 March 2020. And that it was for URV to provide evidence to 
the contrary. The investigator felt URV should pay Mr and Mrs Ps claim and give them £100 
compensation to reflect the stress its unfair declinature had caused them. 
The investigator also noted that Mr and Mrs P were upset that theyd had to visit Ms Vs GP 
to obtain evidence for the purposes of their claim, but thought it was reasonable URV had 
asked for this information.
URV didnt accept our investigators recommendations. It pointed out that Mr and Mrs P 
booked their holiday on 3 February 2020 but didnt purchase travel insurance until 27 
February 2020. It said Ms Vs medical records showed she was prescribed very strong 
painkillers on 19 February and 24 February 2020, and a drug commonly given near the end 
of life on the 28 February 2020. And so felt it was reasonable for it to conclude that a decline 
in Ms Vs health would have been evident to her family at the time Mr and Mrs P purchased 
their policy.
The case has been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about the circumstances leading to this complaint. I dont doubt that 
this has been a very difficult period for Mr and Mrs P.
When reaching my decision, Ive given regard to industry rules set out by the regulator which 
say that an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject 
a claim.
Ive also looked carefully at the policy wording which says:
If you are unable to go on your trip - Section A1
If this happened:
You had to cancel your trip because the following unexpectedly happened before you left 
home:
you, a travel companion, a family member, a close business colleague, or the 
person you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
[]
This is what we will do:
We will pay you up to £1,250 for your share of any costs that are directly related to your trip, 
which you have paid and cannot get back from anyone else, or which cannot be transferred 
or used for another purpose.
The policy also states the following: 
 Important notice regarding the health of someone not insured on this policy, but 
whose health may affect your decision whether to take or continue with your trip
You will not be covered for any directly or indirectly related claims arising from the health 
of a travel companion, a family member, a close business colleague, or the person you 
were going to stay with if at the time your policy was issued you were aware they had health 
problems that were likely to significantly worsen during the period of insurance.
I understand Ms V meets the definition of family member set out in the policy, which is any 
person who is related to you by blood, marriage, adoption, fostering or co-habitation. Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or conflicting - as it is here - then I have to 
make my decision based on the balance of probabilities. Thats to say, Ive taken into 
account the evidence and testimony that has been provided by both parties, and thought 
about the surrounding circumstances, to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, 
and what I feel would be a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P arent disputing that Ms V passed away from a terminal illness which she had 
at the time they purchased their travel insurance policy. The information provided by Ms Vs 
GP indicates that her condition was first diagnosed in March 2019, and that she underwent 
surgery around this period.
However, URVs policy only excludes claims in these circumstances where the policyholder 
was aware that the family member had health problems that were likely to significantly 
worsen during the period of insurance. 
Mr and Mrs P say that they didnt know that Ms V was suffering from this condition and didnt 
find out the cause of her death until after shed passed away. So they feel URV should meet 
their claim as per the terms set out in policy section A1 above. Theyve told us that Ms V was 
a very brave woman, and that theyve since found out she kept this information private as 
she didnt want to be a burden or a worry. 
I think this testimony is plausible. People react to and deal with terminal illness in different 
ways, and I accept that some might not choose to share their condition with their extended 
family. Theres no suggestion Ms V relied on Mr and Mrs P for care, and I can see from her 
death certificate that her daughter was present at her death, so she had other people close 
to her who could have provided her with support.   
URV has pointed out that although Mr and Mrs P booked their holiday on 3 February 2020, 
they didnt purchase insurance cover until 27 February 2020. This was less than a week 
before they were due to travel on their holiday. And by which point, URV argues, it was 
apparent that Ms Vs condition was worsening. Ms Vs medical records show that she was 
prescribed very strong painkillers during the last 10 days of February 2020, and further 
medication on 28 February 2020 shortly before she passed away on 1 March 2020. So I 
agree, it does appear her health was deteriorating at the point Mr and Mrs P purchased their 
policy.
 
I can understand why URV has raised some concerns about this timing. But Im not 
convinced it would be reasonable for me to conclude based on these facts that Mr and Mrs P 
must more likely than not have had knowledge of Ms Vs condition. Mr and Mrs P have 
explained that they couldnt afford to purchase travel insurance at the time they booked their 
holiday and felt that if they shopped around later they would find a better deal. And again  I 
think their testimony is plausible. Whilst its generally advisable, not everyone purchases 
travel insurance at the same time they book a holiday. And I appreciate a holiday is a big 
expenditure. Mr and Mrs P have described this holiday as a trip of lifetime that they saved 
very hard for.
URV hasnt provided any firm evidence that Mr and Mrs P had knowledge of Ms Vs 
condition at the time they purchased their holiday. And I find Mr and Mrs Ps explanation of 
events to be credible. So Im not persuaded that in these circumstances it is reasonable for 
URV to rely on the aforementioned exclusion when declining Mr and Mrs Ps claim.Putting things right
URV should look to settle Mr and Mrs Ps claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. It should add 8% per annum simple interest to any settlement, to be 
calculated from 26 May 2020, which is the date of the letter URV sent a letter declining Mr 
and Mrs Ps claim. 
Our investigator also recommended that URV pay Mr and Mrs P £100 compensation to 
reflect the added stress this matter has caused them at what was already a difficult time 
following the loss of a family member. I think this is fair in the circumstances.  
  
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint. And I direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right 
for Mr and Mrs P as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman