DRN-4271368
The complaint
Mr B complains that Stagemount Limited trading as Quid Market irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Quid Market lent Mr B two short term instalment loans. The first loan was for £300 lent in 
June 2022, on this loan, Mr B was due to make six monthly instalment payments of £89.54. 
Mr B repaid this loan on 17 November 2022, two days after the contractual repayment date. 
Quid Market lent Mr B a second loan in December 2022 for £500 with six monthly 
instalments of £166.65. From the latest information provided on the complaint, Mr B hasnt 
made any repayments towards his second loan.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Bs complaint and didnt think Quid Market was wrong 
to lend loan 1. She thought as Quid Market had made an offer to remove interest on loan 2 
and also remove the loans from Mr Bs credit file, it had done enough to put things right for 
Mr B. Ultimately, our adjudicator didnt think Quid Market needed to do anything further.
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions on loan 1. He said he was struggling with 
a gambling addiction at the time and due to this, his income didnt go into his account. Mr B 
said had Quid Market carried out thorough checks, it would have realised he was struggling 
with gambling and so shouldnt have lent loan 1. Mr B agreed with the adjudicators 
conclusions on loan 2.
As the complaint hasnt been fully resolved, it has been passed to me an ombudsman for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Quid Market needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Quid Market should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Quid Market was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
This means Mr B should be able to meet his loan repayments without undue financial 
difficulties, on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without the need to 
borrow further.
Ive kept all this in mind when considering Mr Bs complaint.
Quid Market offered to remove the interest on loan 2 so that Mr B only repaid the capital. It 
also offered to remove both loans 1 and 2 from Mr Bs credit file, the adjudicator explained 
why she thought this was a fair offer and as Mr B has said he agrees with the conclusions 
about loan 2, there isnt a continuing dispute about this loan. So, Ive focused my decision on 
the decision to lend loan 1 which Mr B has said shouldnt have been lent.
Quid Market has provided evidence to show that before lending loan 1, it asked Mr B about 
his monthly income, living costs and credit commitments. Mr B declared his income as 
£2,500 and his total expenses as £750. I can see Quid Market verified Mr Bs income using 
his payslip. Mr Bs payslip for May 2022 showed his net pay was around £2,390.
Quid Market carried out a search of Mr Bs credit file. The results of this search showed Mr B 
was managing the repayments on all his credit accounts well. The search also showed 
Mr Bs monthly credit commitments were closer to £400 and not £150 as declared by Mr B. 
I can also see that the credit file shows Mr B had a County Court Judgement (CCJ) recorded 
against him in 2020, that CCJ account has an outstanding balance of £542.
I dont think the CCJ on its own was enough for Quid Market to have decided not to lend 
outrightly given that it wasnt so recent. I can also see that when Quid Market was 
underwriting this loan, it considered Mr Bs higher credit commitments and worked out his 
total expenses to be around £1,042  higher than £750 Mr B declared.
Mr B has listed a number of credit accounts he had at the time but from the results of Quid 
Markets search, I think it into account all of Mr Bs active credit account when thinking about 
Mr Bs outgoing. I think that was why it used a higher amount than declared by Mr B.
Looking at the loan amount, Mr Bs verified income, the repayment amount and the results of 
the credit search, I think Quid Markets checks were proportionate in the circumstances. I 
wouldnt have expected Quid Market to request bank statements and take its checks further 
in these circumstances, as this was Mr B was left with a large disposable income and this 
was his first loan with Quid Market.
 
Mr B has said he was struggling with gambling addiction at the time and from what hes told 
us, this has caused problems in other areas of his life. Im pleased to see Mr B has been 
getting help with his addiction and is continuing to recover.From the reasonable and proportionate checks Quid Markey carried out, it wasnt apparent 
Mr B had a gambling addiction and this wasnt information that was provided to it. It may be 
that had Quid Market taken its checks further by requesting Mr Bs bank statements, its 
likely to have found that he was struggling with gambling, but this wasnt something that 
should have been prompted in this case and as Quid Market wasnt aware and ought not to 
have been aware of this information, it couldnt react to it. 
Overall, Quid Market acted reasonably with its level of checks and those checks showed 
Mr B was in a position to make the repayments of loan 1 throughout the term so I dont think 
it was wrong to lend.
I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with my findings, but I need to consider what 
reasonable and proportionate checks showed or would have shown. Theres nothing within 
the circumstances of this lending decision that I think should have prompted Quid Market to 
request bank statements and it acted reasonably by reacting to the information it saw.
Quid Market however needs to put things right for Mr B in relation loan 2 as it has already 
agreed to.
  
Putting things right
As Mr B hasnt made any interest payments towards loan 2, Quid Market should remove all 
interest and charges applied to the loan. It should also remove loans 1 and 2 from Mr Bs 
credit file as it offered to do.
Quid Market should work with Mr B to agree a suitable repayment plan for the capital of 
loan 2 should he require a repayment plan.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and direct Stagemount 
Limited trading as Quid Market to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman