DRN-3109146
The complaint
Ms J is unhappy with the service provided by Amtrust Europe Limited following a claim 
under her policy for her heating system. 
What happened
In September 2020 Ms J contacted Amtrust because of problems she was having with her 
hot water supply and central heating. Amtrust arranged for an engineer to attend to the 
problem. The engineer completed the following repair work Replaced three port valve. 
Vented system as far as possible.
Ms J continued to experience problems. Amtrust arranged for another engineer to be sent 
out. An engineer attended and it was agreed that further parts were required to fix the 
problem, and so the engineer would return on 7 October to complete the repairs. Ms J 
arranged to have time off work to be home for the scheduled engineers visit. 
On 7 October the engineer sent Ms J a text saying the appointment had to be rescheduled 
for 9 October. Ms J asked what time the engineer would be coming so that she could 
arrange for time off work accordingly. On 8 October Ms J received a text in the morning 
saying the engineer would be arriving in the afternoon. The engineer sent a text later that 
afternoon saying that the appointment would need to be rescheduled for the following week.
Ms J contacted Amtrust to complain about the time shed taken off work, only for the 
engineer not to turn up.
A further visit was scheduled for 14 October. The engineer replaced some parts but that 
same evening Ms J continued to experience problems with her boiler, particularly having 
access to no hot water or heating.  
Ms J contacted Amtrust on 15 October requesting a different engineer to come and inspect 
her boiler, and fix the problem. Ms J sent an email on 16 October complaining about the 
number of cancelled engineer visits, and on-going issues with her boiler, and not having any 
access to hot water or heating. Ms J also complained about the engineers visit on 14 
October as she felt his behaviour was unprofessional in failing to wear a face mask when he 
entered her property. Ms J explained she has asthma and cares for elderly parents so was 
particularly concerned by his behaviour. 
The engineer company contacted Amtrust to discuss the work that had been carried out to 
Ms Js boiler on 14th October. It was recorded customer advised previous eng drained down 
system and turned off and loads of other stuff while changing 3 port valve which he believes 
shouldnt have needed done. He diagnosis is new pump required, customer has hot water 
from emmersion but heating will only be tepid. he cannot fit until Thursday and customer 
expecting someone quicker. new pump to be fitted and probs be air lock in system due to 
previous eng.
On 17 October another engineer attended to Ms Js property to investigate the problems with 
her boiler. It was recorded System had been drained down by another CORGI engineer 
after replacing a 3 port valve. He reported to the customer it needed a pump but said he 
couldn't return for 5 days. On arrival I talked to the customer to find out what had happened. 
A new pump wasn't required as the pump was working correctly. The system had multiple 
airlocks as it hadn't been vented correctly. Customer was very unhappy before arrival but 
was better by the time I had finished.
Amtrust responded to Ms Js complaint on 27 October. They acknowledged that the service 
provided couldve been better, and offered £100 for the inconvenience caused to Ms J. They 
also agreed to waive the £90 excess fee usually charged when making a claim.  
Ms J was unhappy with this decision, and brought her complaint to this service for 
investigation. Ms J highlighted the frustration and upset suffered each time an appointment 
was arranged and cancelled. She had to move furniture in her daughters room to allow safe 
access for the engineer to complete repairs, and rearrange it when the engineer didnt show 
up. Ms J also lost annual leave and time that she had scheduled to spend with her elderly 
parents because of the missed appointments by the engineer.
The investigator found that the compensation offered by Amtrust didnt go far enough in 
recognising the upset caused to Ms J. The investigator recommended Amtrust pay Ms J a 
further £150 for the poor service shed received and the impact it had had on her. 
Amtrust accepted the investigators findings. Ms J didnt respond to the investigators 
findings. As the complaint couldnt be resolved its been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators outcome on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Ms J contacted Amtrust in September 2020 to report a problem, and it wasnt until several 
weeks later that the problem causing the issues was identified. There were several 
scheduled visits to Ms Js property, (many of which were cancelled with little notice), before 
a correct diagnosis was given. Ms J took time off work, cancelled visits to see her elderly 
parents, and was caused frustration and upset in having to move furniture in her daughters 
room to allow safe access for the engineer to complete the necessary repair work. All of this 
added to what was already a stressful time for Ms J when she was without hot water and 
central heating. 
As the above is accepted, the dispute now relates to the award of compensation that should 
be paid in recognition of what went wrong, and the impact this had on Ms J.
The service provided by Amtrust fell below the standard wed expect. Ms Js circumstances 
meant that she was living with her young daughter, and also had care responsibilities for her 
elderly parents. Each time a visit was arranged with the engineer, Ms J took time off work 
using her annual leave allowance. Ms J has also explained how the engineer told her the 
part that needed to be replaced was in her daughters room. This meant that she had to 
wake her daughter in good time to move the furniture around so that the engineer could 
have easy and safe access to the part of the room where repair work was required. 
I am persuaded it wouldve caused Ms J frustration and inconvenience in having to do this 
each time an engineer was scheduled to arrive- only for the engineer not to turn up. Ms J 
has also provided a detailed testimony about her recollections of the engineer who attended her property on 14th October. This was a particularly challenging time due to Covid 
restrictions, and the responsibility to take extra precautions. I cant say conclusively whether 
the engineer that attended wore a mask, or not. And Amtrust havent provided comment on 
this. But I am persuaded by what Ms J has explained about the experience not being one 
that she was hoping for. 
Ms J has also provided a detailed account about the impact on her health as a result of not 
having access to heating and hot water over the days that the repair work wasnt completed 
when it ought to have been. Ms J was forced to rely on neighbours and friends for taking a 
shower during this time. It also affected her well-being living in her home without access to 
heating or hot water during the colder months. 
From reviewing the different engineers notes, I can see why Mrs J wouldve been frustrated 
by the lack of clear diagnosis concerning the problems with her boiler and heating system. It 
took several engineer visits, and separate inspections before the repairs were completed. 
This wouldve added to the inconvenience, and period of delay in sorting matters. 
Having considered these events, I think an additional payment of £150 is fair compensation 
to Ms J for the poor service received from Amtrust. I say this because it fairly reflects the 
level of inconvenience Ms J experienced by needing to call Amtrust a number of times, and 
the distress and upset caused by the number of cancelled engineer visits. 
Putting things right
The investigator recommended an additional payment of £150 to recognise the impact on 
Ms J as a result of the poor service provided by Amtrust. 
I think this compensation is fair and in line with what I would direct in similar circumstances. 
So, I direct Amtrust to pay Ms J £150 in recognition of the impact on Ms J. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. 
Amtrust Europe Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman