DRN-3869638
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way that Lowell Financial Ltd (Lowell) has handled the collection 
of a debt in his name. 
What happened
Mr D owed money to a business I will refer to as C. In 2018, C sold the debt to Lowell 
Portfolio I Limited which in turn appointed Lowell to manage on its behalf. I will continue to 
refer to Lowell throughout my decision.
Mr D contacted Lowell in May 2022 to say the debt was statute barred as it was more than 
five years old. Lowell disagreed as it said it had received a payment of £15 from C towards 
the debt in April 2018. Mr D then said hed never taken the account out in the first place.
Mr D is unhappy that Lowell cant provide details of the alleged payment which he disputes 
making. Mr D is also unhappy that after Lowell placed his account on hold, it still contacted 
him to ask him to complete paperwork.
Lowell recommended that Mr D ask C for details of the bank account used to make the 
payment as it doesnt hold this kind of information. 
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint be upheld. She thought Lowell 
acted reasonably when it raised a query with C and put Mr Ds account on hold. 
Mr D is unhappy with the investigation outcome. He says that one of the points hed made 
hasnt been investigated. 
Mr D says after Lowell took the debt over, it should have enough information to make sure 
the debt is due and enforceable. 
The investigator responded to Mr Ds concerns and explained that Lowell wasnt responsible 
for the management of the account prior to buying the debt from C. The investigator thought 
Lowell had given Mr D enough information to allow him to ask C for details of the £15 
payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in my own words but our rules allow me to do 
this. This doesnt mean that Ive not considered everything that both parties have provided. 
This service cant declare a debt statute barred or unenforceable  it would be for a court to 
decide this. However, I can consider whether Lowell treated Mr D fairly once he told it that 
the debt was more than five years old and that the account had been opened fraudulently.
I appreciate that Mr D thinks Lowell hasnt taken his dispute of the debt seriously and is 
therefore in breach of the DISP rules but I dont agree. Lowell has provided evidence that it 
responded to Mr Ds concerns about the account having been opened fraudulently and that 
it's statute barred. 
In June 2022, Lowell told Mr D that the account it bought from C was opened in April 2016 
and registered to Mr Ds current address meaning any correspondence relating to the 
account wouldve been sent to Mr D. C also told Lowell that Mr D had made contact in March 
2018 to discuss setting up a standing order. And that as the account was defaulted in May 
2017 it had been active for more than a year, which wasnt consistent with fraudulent activity. 
It seems Lowell took Mr Ds concerns seriously and dealt with them by asking C for further 
information. I consider this to have been a fair response on the part of Lowell. 
Lowell told Mr D that it had received a payment of £15 from C in April 2018 and that this 
meant the debt wasnt statute barred. Although Mr D disagrees with this, Im satisfied that 
Lowell acted reasonably. Lowell has explained that as the payment was received by C, it 
doesnt hold details of the bank account used to make the payment. I can see it asked C for 
this information but it wasnt provided. Lowell suggested to Mr D that he make a subject 
access request to C. Lowell told Mr D it would place his account on hold for 30 days to give 
him time to approach C for further details. Again, this seems like a reasonable course of 
action, so I dont find Lowell treated Mr D unfairly.
I understand that Lowell contacted Mr D for information while it had placed his account on 
hold. Although unfortunate, I cant see that Lowell made repeated requests and it 
acknowledged the mistake when Mr D made contact. So, I dont think Lowell needs to take 
any further action to apologise. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Lowell has been unreasonable to take the view that Mr D 
owes the debt that it bought from C. And Im satisfied that it responded reasonably to Mr Ds 
concerns as and when he raised them. It follows that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman