DRN-3168144
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain the settlement proposed by Covea Insurance plc for their claim on
their home insurance policy is unfair.
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M suffered an attempted burglary in which the glass in a three-panel sliding
patio door and an opening door was badly damaged. Mr M and Mrs Ms home insurance
policy with Covea covers them for loss or damage caused by an attempted theft. So theyve
made a claim, which Covea has accepted.
Covea says the door frames on both sets of doors arent damaged, so it will repair the doors
by replacing the damaged sections of glass. Covea says it will either instruct its repairer to
do this work or cash settle the claim for the amount its repairer has quoted for it (minus the
policy excess), depending on which option Mr M and Mrs M prefer.
Mr M and Mrs M are unhappy with this proposed settlement. They say both sets of doors
should be replaced entirely, not just the glass. So theyve brought their complaint to us.
The investigator who looked at Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint initially upheld it. In her first view
on their complaint, she said she thought Covea should replace the damaged doors in their
entirety. Covea disagreed and sent our investigator some further information. This
persuaded our investigator to change her view. From what Covea said, she thought it should
just replace the broken glass. So, in her second view, she didnt uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms
complaint.
Mr M and Mrs M disagreed and so their complaint came to me to decide. In my provisional 
decision of 29 September 2021, I explained why I intended to uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms 
complaint.
Mr M and Mrs M have accepted my provisional decision. Covea disagrees with it. It says 
replacing the glass only would result in a satisfactory and lasting repair, putting                   
Mr M and Mrs M in the same position as before the incident happened. 
So Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons given in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold 
Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint. In my provisional decision, I explained why Id reached this 
view, as follows:
My starting point is Mr M and Mrs Ms home insurance policy. This says that, when settling
Mr M and Mrs Ms claim, it is for Covea (and not Mr M and Mrs M) to decide whether to
replace or repair the damage. I dont think theres anything unreasonable about that in
principle, since Covea is the one paying for the claim.
But Mr M and Mrs Ms home insurance policy is whats called a contract of indemnity. This
means, when it settles their claim, Covea must  as nearly as possible  put
Mr M and Mrs M back in the position they were in just before the attempted burglary. So Id
expect to see Covea make a settlement that does that and for Covea to act fairly and
reasonably in reaching its settlement decision. And if Covea were to settle Mr M and Mrs Ms
claim by replacing the glass in the doors, wed expect that repair to be effective and lasting.
As Ive already noted, Mr M and Mrs M say that, to be put back in the position they were in
before the attempted burglary, their doors should be replaced entirely. Covea says repairing
the doors by replacing the glass  which will cost much less than replacing them  does that.
Im not an expert in repairing and replacing doors and glass. So to decide if Coveas current
settlement offer is fair and reasonable, I must look at the evidence both Mr M and Mrs M and
Covea have given us to support their differing views on what should be done.
Coveas expert repairer says the door frames arent damaged, so it can replace the
damaged glass. Covea says its repairer is a national recognised company, it acts for the
majority of UK insurers and its work is guaranteed. And Coveas in-house technicians also
say:
The doors and windows are manufactured as a frame and the glazing is then added after
and the glazing is held in place with beading and gaskets so it is possible to simply
replace the broken glass by retro fitting as this is how the units are manufactured.
Mr M and Mrs M disagree. They have been given different opinions about this issue from two
national recognised glazing and home improvement companies (Covea has already seen
both opinions). The first is from the company that fitted the doors initially. It told Mr M, among
other things:
We would not undertake such repair, plus also what guarantees could we give regarding
heat loss, draughts, maintenance, and most importantly security. Replacing all the three
panel door is the only option.
Mr M asked a second company about the repair option and it said it wouldnt recommend it
because: This kind of work is unreliable and you can almost guarantee that a couple of
years down the line the windows will be leaking and the seals blown.
Covea has made the point that both companies are likely to have given their opinions in the
context of quoting to replace Mr M and Mrs Ms doors. I accept that, but it doesnt mean their
opinions have no merit.
Mr M says Covea is wrong about the doors being manufactured as a frame, with the glazing
added afterwards and held together with beading and gaskets. He said the manufacturing
process involves the aluminium patio door frames being built around the glass.
We asked Mr M for some more information about this and hes given us with his detailed
research on the two different manufacturing processes. Im sending Mr Ms research to
Covea, along with this provisional decision, for it to comment, if it wishes. So Im only going
to summarise Mr Ms research findings here, as follows:
His aluminium doorframes are silicon bonded around the double-glazed glass units. 
He says beaded glazing is a form of fixing glass into framing systems.The biggest advantage of bonded over beaded glazing is that it offers a more secure
glass fixing technique.
Due to the strength of a bonded glass unit its impossible to remove a piece of glass
from the frame without damaging one or the other. If a unit of bonded glass needs to
be replaced its likely the frame will also need replacing.
Structurally bonded glazing uses silicone as the bonding agent. It can withstand more
extreme temperatures and is more water-resistant than many other sealants.
From what Ive seen so far, I think the fair and reasonable outcome of this complaint
depends largely on whether, as a matter of fact, the doors are bonded (as Mr says they are)
or beaded (as Covea says they are).
As things stand, Im more persuaded so far by the information Mr M has given us than by
Coveas. And on that basis  and I must emphasise that further evidence may alter my
thinking on this  I dont think the settlement Covea is proposing is fair and reasonable. If
Mr M and Mrs Ms doors are structurally bonded, I dont think replacing the glass puts them
back in the position they were in before the attempted burglary. I say this for the reasons
Mr M gives as part of his research, which Ive summarised above. And I should also say
some of the concerns Mr M mentions in his research in relation to beaded glazing are similar
to those of one of the glazing companies whose opinion he sought  that replacing the glass
(rather than the doors) risked heat loss and drafts, possible maintenance issues and
concerns about security.
I should also say that, as Ive already mentioned, Id expect any repair Covea carried out to
Mr M and Mrs Ms doors to be effective and lasting. From the information Ive seen so far,
and for the same reasons as Ive just mentioned, my current view is that I dont think its
more likely than not replacing the glass in the doors would achieve this.
If Covea has further evidence to show Im wrong about this, Id be grateful to see it and Ill
look at this point again.
In conclusion, and based on what Ive seen so far, its my current intention to direct Covea to
settle Mr M and Mrs Ms claim by replacing their doors entirely, rather than just replacing the
glass in them. Mr M and Mrs M have got quotes for doing this (these are from the same
group of companies that originally fitted them). Im sending these quotes to Covea (along
with this provisional decision and Mr M research) for it to comment on them, if it wishes.
When Mr M and Mrs M brought their complaint to us, their claim had been outstanding for
many months. They said they were worried their doors were still boarded-up and a security
risk. They also said they let in drafts and were unsightly. They said these things were was
causing them psychological distress.
If my final view on the outcome of this complaint is to uphold it, I intend to direct Covea to
pay Mr M and Mrs M £300 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused them.
As Ive already mentioned, Mr M and Mrs M have accepted my provisional decision (as well 
as sending us some further research on the patio door bonding). Covea disagrees. It has 
reiterated it experts opinion that the PVC door is beaded and the patio is wrap around. So it 
says to replace the doors entirely will over-indemnify Mr M and Mrs M. 
But Covea hasnt given us any further evidence to support its experts opinion. I considered 
that opinion as part of my provisional decision. And, as I said there, I found the opinions given by Mr Ms experts (one of whom is part of the group of companies who fitted the doors 
that were damaged in the burglary), along with his research, more persuasive than Coveas. 
Ive seen nothing to make me think I should change the conclusions I set out in my 
provisional decision, and these now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint and direct Covea 
Insurance plc to settle their claim by replacing both their three-panel sliding door and their 
opening door entirely (based on the quotations for this work that Mr M and Mrs M have 
obtained and that I sent to Covea when I sent my provisional decision on this complaint). I 
also direct Covea Insurance plc to pay Mr M and Mrs M £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused them in dealing with their claim.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman