DRN-4158426
The complaint
Through his representative, Mr S has complained that IWC Financial Ltd unsuitably advised 
him to transfer his employers defined benefit (DB) pension to a personal pension in 2019.
What happened
Mr S was speaking to his usual financial adviser at the end of 2018 about a potential transfer 
from his DB scheme. That adviser obtained details of a cash equivalent transfer value 
(CETV) from the scheme on 3 January 2019, but didnt hold the required permissions to 
provide DB transfer advice. So, they referred Mr S to IWC. 
Mr S was being offered a CETV of £164,736.25 as an alternative to a scheme pension 
projected to be £6,242pa from age 65 plus a tax-free cash sum of £42,830. The same 
figures at age 60 were projected to be £3,664pa plus £24,427. Hed built up 14.5 years 
service in the scheme.
Mr S first met with an adviser from IWC on 7 January 2019, and further meetings took place 
on 2 & 26 February and 21 March. His usual financial adviser attended the meeting when 
advice was given.
IWC completed a fact find to establish Mr S circumstances and financial objectives. He was 
aged 51 at the time and divorced, but with four children ranging from age 14 to 29. He was in 
good health and had been self-employed for 10 years, earning about £12,000pa. This was 
unlikely to change. All income was being used up by regular and discretionary spending. 
He had a lowest medium (4 out of 10) attitude to risk, assessed from a questionnaire which 
included saying that he had been extremely cautious in the past; was put off from investing 
by experiencing substantial losses; was more concerned about suffering losses than making 
gains; would rather know his returns were guaranteed; and would rather invest in a bank 
account than shares.
The printout from this questionnaire noted that some of Mr Ss answers were inconsistent, 
but that Mr S realised you must take some risk to achieve reasonable returns over the 
longer period hence a fully guaranteed return is not actually what you required, but a more 
stable rate of return.
Mr Ss assets and liabilities were as follows: 
- personal pensions with Aviva worth £18,100 to which he wasnt contributing.
- £15,000 of savings in a deposit account. 
- A £38,000 interest-only mortgage due for repayment at the time of the fact-find, and 
an endowment expected to pay out £28,500. 
- So, he was borrowing £15,000 on a repayment basis to be cleared at about age 58. 
- He was expecting a £60,000 inheritance from the sale of his elderly mothers home 
plus some of her savings.
The adviser wrote death benefit under the soft facts section of the fact find. Consequently, 
he obtained quotes for whole of live cover for a benefit amount that compared with the DB 
transfer value. The monthly premium was £248 guaranteed, or £149 reviewable. 
He noted that Mr S had no concerns about the solvency of his former employer. Mr S had 
selected that the DB scheme was a major part of his pension provision which should be 
protected as far as is reasonably possible, and he didnt consider it would be appropriate to 
expose these benefits to anything other than a minimal level of risk. But he would prefer to 
take control of his pension as he didnt require the guaranteed inflationary increases and 
preferred the ability to pay death benefits to children irrespective of their age  and access 
lump sums without being required to take an income. 
IWC issued a suitability report dated 19 March 2019. Within the report IWC recommended
Mr S transfer the DB scheme to a Prudential personal pension and to invest in the Prufund 
Cautious Fund. This offered a smoothed investment return with an expected growth rate of 
5.5%pa before any charges. IWC noted Mr S had the following objectives, which formed the 
basis of its reasons for recommending the transfer:
Take a £10-20,000 tax free lump sum at age 55 to help pay for his daughters 
wedding. (Noted as potential wedding on the fact find)
Take a further £20,000 lump sum at age 56 to purchase a campervan
Potentially, access other funds on an ad hoc basis to help his other children.
Defer taking further income from the pension until he retired at age 60, when he 
desired £1,000 per month net (i.e. similar to his current earnings)
Reduce the income drawn once he received his state pension (£8,575pa) at age 67
For all his children to benefit from his pension savings should he pass
away, even those not classed as dependent on him
The analysis IWC carried out included explaining:  
Assuming that he took tax-free cash at the schemes normal retirement age of 65, 
hed need his transferred fund to grow at a critical yield of 6.47% pa to match the DB 
scheme pension (or omitting the spouses pension and increases, 2.55%).
The same figure to age 60 was 4.66% pa (or -2.1%pa omitting the spouses pension 
and increases).
Assuming that he took tax-free cash at the schemes normal retirement age of 65, the 
estimated fund required now to provide the same benefits as the DB scheme was 
£301,298 (or omitting the spouses pension and increases, £179,030).
The same figure for taking benefits at age 60 was £204,964 (or omitting the spouses 
pension and increases, £113,653).
If Mr S took drawdown of the same tax-free cash and increasing income benefits that 
the DB scheme would provide and it grew at the medium projection rate (but after 
charges), the fund could last from age 65 to 100, or from age 60 to 120+.
IWC went on to say:
If your sole purpose in transferring out was to match the guaranteed index linked income, 
including spousal income, then my advice would be to stay in the scheme. In my professional 
opinion if you were transferring to buy an annuity that matched the schemes benefits at 60 or 65, I 
could not guarantee the relevant critical yield would be achieved year on year, thus putting you 
potentially in a negative income position.
However, you have no intention on buying an annuity for the reasons detailed earlier in the report 
as this style of contract does not meet your retirement aims and objectives. Also, the flexibility, 
death benefits, ongoing lump sums etc are much more important to you than a fixed, guaranteed inflation linked income, I am happy to provide a positive recommendation to transfer to a more 
flexible personal pension arrangement."
IWC calculated that Mr S had scope to access £12,000pa from a drawdown fund between 
ages 60 and 67, then reducing this down to account for the state pension. It said that the 
cashflow analysis remained positive over the rest of his lifetime compared with the DB 
scheme, and would still do if he experienced negative returns in the first three years.
The printout provided appears to be based on a set of example investment returns (some 
positive, some negative) in each year up to age 100. This suggested Mr S could meet his 
income objective from the transferred fund and other assets and state pension combined up 
to approximately that age, allowing for the planned lump sum expenditure above.
I note that the sale was referred for further checking on account of Mr S transferring at under 
age 55, having other assets of less than £50,000 and other liabilities  but was passed under 
IWCs compliance process because a transfer was the only way of achieving Mr Ss 
objectives.
Mr S accepted IWCs recommendation, and the transfer took place on 2 May 2019 for the 
amount originally quoted. The fees for the transfer were 4% initially and 0.5%pa for ongoing 
reviews. This was in addition to the charges for the pension of about 1.1%pa.
Mr S complained to IWC through his representatives in February 2022 that the advice was 
unsuitable because he was highly unlikely to match the benefits in the DB scheme, and 
there were no exceptional circumstances that justified transferring. IWC disagreed with the 
complaint, saying that a transfer of the pension was the only and best option to achieve 
Mr Ss retirement objectives. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. On 6 April 2023, she said, in summary:
- The large gap between the CETV and TVC amount, and the critical yields quoted, all 
showed that Mr S wasnt going to be able to replicate the scheme benefits in a 
guaranteed way by purchasing an annuity outside the scheme. (The figures the 
investigator referred to here were higher ones assuming no tax-free cash was taken.)
- One reason for this was because the regulators lower projection rate of 2% and 
medium rate of 5% - representing returns a little above and below Mr Ss claimed low 
to medium attitude to risk  didnt compare favourably with these yields. 
- Moreover, Mr S had little capacity to take loss with his primary source of pension 
provision other than state benefits.
- IWC was able to demonstrate that Mr Ss cashflow objectives would be met by the 
transfer from combining the drawdown with his other sources of income. But it carried 
with it the risk that Mr S would over-deplete his pension pot, because there were non-
specified payments that he would also like to make to his three other children. 
- Even though it factored in poorly-performing years, she didnt consider the forecast 
returns IWC projected for Mr Ss portfolio were robust enough to cover all potential 
scenarios for investment performance  given in particular his low capacity for loss.
- Alongside his state pension, the DB scheme went a long way to meeting his income 
need from guaranteed sources at virtually no risk.
- Mr S didnt yet have a genuine need to access sums through a flexible pension at the 
time, as that could have been revisited closer to age 55. He may have built up further 
savings over that period and reduced the draw on accessing his pension, or been 
able to manage just by accessing his smaller Aviva pension.
- Likewise, the intended strategy of taking more income from drawdown from age 60 to 67 than afterwards, could easily have altered by the time Mr S reached that age.
- Most people would like to retire early if given the option, but IWC didnt consider 
carefully enough if Mr S could actually afford to do so  particularly given his intention 
to assist his other three children financially.
- There might also not have been a large pension fund remaining on Mr Ss passing, 
as a result of investment performance and this planned expenditure.  So the adviser 
should have cautioned Mr S against transferring because of the death benefits.
- The DB scheme would potentially provide benefits for his two youngest children, 
while they were still dependent. But this could have been augmented by taking out 
term assurance (rather than whole of life assurance) at relatively low cost.
- Financial planning wasnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever 
course of action Mr S wanted to take. He was financially inexperienced given his lack 
of other investments and the small private pension he had. It was incumbent upon 
the adviser to give suitable advice, and his need for a secure lifetime income was 
best met by remaining in the DB scheme.
IWC told the investigator that it didnt accept her findings but was taking a pragmatic 
approach, so it would carry out a loss assessment calculation. Mr Ss representative asked 
for this to be based on Mr S retiring at the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as he in 
fact had no plans to retire from work until age 67. The investigator shared this request with 
IWC and it agreed on 21 April that when it conducts the calculation it would use the 
schemes normal retirement age of 65.
The investigator asked IWC on 28 April to clarify its intentions in carrying out the calculation, 
and whether that meant it accepted that Mr S should receive any redress due. IWC replied 
that it was agreeing to carry out calculations, but only went as far as saying it would then 
share the results of those with this service. Mr Ss representative didnt regard this as an 
admission of liability and wanted the complaint to remain open until the loss calculation had 
been carried out. 
The queue for cases awaiting an ombudsmans decision is relatively short at present and we 
cannot, unfortunately, keep cases open indefinitely. The investigator notified both parties on 
12 May that the case would be put into this queue.
I understand that Prudential notified Mr Ss representative on 17 May that it would provide 
the information needed for the calculation within 10 working days, and that this was relayed 
to IWC. This was revised to two working days from 9 June. This service hasnt been updated 
further, but I understand that these calculations can take some time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that IWC has been given a full opportunity to respond to the investigators view, 
issued some 12 weeks ago. It has said it doesnt accept the view, but without giving reasons 
 and we notified it some 7 weeks ago that the complaint would be passed to an 
ombudsman and allowed it a further opportunity to make further representations. Naturally it 
is IWCs choice to embark upon calculations. However, the case has now reached me in the 
decision queue without agreement between the parties that it has been settled. And it is the 
methodology that should be used to calculate loss, rather than the result, that this service 
can determine.Ive reviewed all of the evidence and submissions and agree with the investigators view, for 
much the same reasons. Although she referred in her view on the critical yields and TVC for 
a pension without tax-free cash being taken, Ive put all of the other figures we have in the 
background above. 
At first sight the figures to age 60 look more achievable than those to age 65. However I 
dont have confidence in the figures to age 60 because the stated assumption at the end of 
the analysis printout is that the quoted early retirement factor has simply been applied to the 
DB pension revalued to that age. The schemes letter to IWC quite clearly states it should be 
applied to the projected pension revalued to age 65, assuming 2.5%pa inflation first. The 
effect of this is that the critical yields and TVC sums for retirement at age 60 should not have 
been as low as stated. 
I also note that IWC ran the calculations with Mr Ss marital status as unknown. If it had 
entered that he was divorced (single), or made any further submissions on this point, it might 
have been clearer what the yield or sum required would be allowing for the annual increases 
but not the spouses pension  which obviously wouldnt be payable in Mr Ss case unless 
he remarried before retirement.
As it is, we only have a comparison between a figure assuming Mr S was married, and 
another without any spouses benefits or increases at all. So, the actual yield Mr S would 
need to achieve to match the income plus valuable inflationary increases under the DB 
scheme would have been part-way between 2.55% and 6.47% (to age 65), and I expect 
correspondingly lower  but not as low as the figures quoted  to age 60.
However in any event, and like the investigator, Im not satisfied Mr S could realistically 
afford to retire fully at age 60. The income he desired in retirement was the same as what he 
was earning. His living costs (other than the mortgage, which by then would hopefully be 
paid off) were using up all of that income at the time of advice. In my view that also illustrates 
why Mr Ss pension income keeping pace with inflation should have been important to him. 
As the investigator mentioned, if he stopped working at 60 then the cashflow analysis 
suggested it was unlikely hed be able to give any financial assistance to his other three 
children on an ad hoc basis  without risking running out of money in later retirement.
Mr S said himself on the fact find that he didnt think he could afford to retire early. His 
representative says that he expects to remain working until age 67 and I dont find that 
unreasonable  or at the least, age 65 if hed retained a DB pension that kicked in at that 
age. Given that I dont think age 60 was a realistic age for Mr S to start drawing his income, 
Im referring mainly to the critical yield and TVC figures to age 65 as an indication of the risk 
Mr S would be taking in relinquishing his DB pension.
I agree the specific reference the adviser made to death benefits on the fact find is relevant, 
because Mr S was most likely to die after any of his children were dependent and able to 
receive anything additional from the DB scheme. So, theyd only get a refund of 
contributions, or the remainder of any 5-year guarantee period on his pension. I can see why 
he would have been interested in seeing if they could be better protected. But in my view, for 
someone of Mr Ss relatively low attitude to risk, the critical yield for a single-life pension (but 
including annual increases) best represents whether he could afford to take the risk of 
leaving the DB scheme. Thats because it might allow him to invest cautiously for an income, 
with at least the prospect of leaving some residual funds behind for his children on his death. 
Having looked at this however, I cant fairly see that the critical yield was likely low enough to 
warrant Mr S taking that risk. In my view the superior death benefits under drawdown would 
only be notably more if Mr S died before his time. Particularly as after hed embarked on 
increased expenditure up to age 67 as assumed in the cashflow analysis, there would be correspondingly less left in the pot to pass on to his children  as theyd have benefited in his 
lifetime rather than on his death.
Like the investigator said, the particular benefit of having more residual funds in the earlier 
years of drawdown could be covered by buying a decreasing term assurance policy. I think it 
was misleading of IWC to illustrate the expensive cost of a whole of life policy for a level sum 
equal to the CETV, when it was unlikely Mr Ss children would receive that sum - other than 
in the event of his death in the very early years of drawdown.
Whilst Im mindful of the cashflow analysis IWC also undertook, I believe that the TVC and 
critical yield are the most relevant figures given Mr Ss circumstances. I agree with the 
investigator that Mr S had a low capacity for loss and this actually lowered, realistically, what 
risk he could afford to take on a transfer  i.e. his attitude to transfer risk. Given the amount 
he was now earning on a self-employed basis, he had been fortunate to accumulate a 
substantial DB pension from a previous employment. But he evidently had little spare 
income to increase the size of his small Aviva pension further in future.
I also dont think the way of resolving the inconsistent answers in Mr Ss attitude to risk 
questionnaire was to encourage him to take more risk than some of his answers suggested 
 with the effect of making it more likely a transfer might pay off. I think Mr Ss answers 
overall reflect his cautiousness at transferring such a significant sum, and major part of his 
pension provision. I consider these should have called into question whether Mr Ss risk 
profile really was as high as 4/10 in respect of making this particular transfer. Im not 
persuaded that the returns on the Prufund Cautious fund, which whilst smoothed were not 
guaranteed, and subject to charges, were an adequate exchange for the virtually risk-free, 
index-linked pension Mr S would have enjoyed from his DB scheme.
So in summary, I dont think Mr S had the appetite for, or capacity to take the risks of 
drawdown with the main part of his pension provision. And despite being his lack of need for 
a spouses pension, Im not satisfied the CETV being offered by the scheme was good 
enough value for him to be able to replicate the secure nature of the DB pension, but still 
incorporate the flexibility of accessing lump sums without income. Where I think the adviser 
went wrong is in his statement (quoted above) that Mr S should remain in the scheme if he 
wanted a guaranteed, index-linked income, and leaving Mr S to conclude that the other 
advantages of drawdown were worth giving this up for. I think his advice should have 
unequivocally been that they were not.
Ive then considered whether Mr S would have followed this advice, if given. He was making 
plans to access lump sums more than three years away. The wedding plans were referred to 
as possible, and I note Mr S still had other cash sums and the ability to access his other 
Aviva pension. I wouldnt consider the camper van to be an essential expenditure as 
opposed to something Mr S was interested in buying. If necessary, he could have reached a 
compromise between drawing his DB pension early enough to have enough cashflow to do 
all these things he wanted, without receiving too much unnecessary income. He could, of 
course, have reinvested any surplus income back into the Aviva pension. To the extent that 
these objectives were fixed in stone, which was debateable, it was the advisers role to 
outline alternatives for achieving them.
Whatever Mr S decided to do when the time came at age 55 when he could first access his 
pension, I can see no reason why he needed to transfer it into drawdown more than three 
years before that  and in the meantime put his future security at risk. Flexibility isnt needed 
in advance of it actually being usable. And the FCA has been clear in its guidance to firms 
that they should only consider a transfer to be suitable if they can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that its in the client's best interests (COBS 19.1.6G). Im not 
satisfied IWC has demonstrated this in Mr Ss case.Ive had regard for Mr Ss representatives comments that he intends to remain working until 
at least 65  which IWC hasnt responded to in the investigators view. I note it was already 
intending to carry out a loss assessment assuming the DB pension was taken at that age. 
Given what Ive said about Mr Ss ability to access other cash sums or his smaller Aviva 
pension, I consider that to be a fair assumption.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for IWC Financial Ltd to put Mr S, as far as 
possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr S 
would have most likely remained in the DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
IWC Financial Ltd must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
(PS)22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter 
For clarity, Mr S has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So,
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr S
acceptance of this decision. If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in 
PS22/13 and set out in DISP App 4, IWC must:
always calculate and offer Mr S redress as a cash lump sum payment;
explain to Mr S before starting the redress calculation that:
oits redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
oa straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
Prudential plan;
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr S receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr S accepts IWCs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr S for the
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented;
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ss end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr S as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, IWC may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr 
Ss likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
Determination and money award: I uphold the complaint. I require IWC Financial Ltd to 
pay Mr S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
IWC Financial Ltd pays Mr S the balance. 
If Mr S accepts my decision, the money award is binding on IWC Financial Ltd. My 
recommendation is not binding on IWC Financial Ltd. Further, its unlikely that Mr S can 
accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman