DRN-3272845
Complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) started charging interest on the 
overdraft facility she had on her graduate account without notifying her in advance of this 
this.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ps concerns. He didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss P unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss P disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ps 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
It isnt in dispute that Miss P graduate terms were due to expire before the start of the 2020 
academic year. So Im satisfied that Santander was entitled to change the terms of Miss Ps 
account at this time. However, even though Santander was entitled to vary Miss Ps account 
terms and her overdraft interest rate, I would expect a bank doing this to provide a customer 
with notice of any changes in advance of them happening. 
In this case, it isnt in dispute that Santander sent the required notifications, explaining the 
upcoming changes, in 2020. However, these were sent to an address Miss P had left in 
2018. Miss P says she notified Santander she moved. But Santander has no record of this 
and Miss P hasnt been able to provide anything to support her having notified Santander of 
her change of address at this time or any other time prior to the notifications being sent. So 
Im satisfied that Santander sent a notification to the address it held for Miss P and it 
therefore took reasonable steps to notify her of the upcoming changes. 
I know that Miss P is unhappy these communications were sent to her by post. But while 
certain documents such as statement alerts can be sent be email, it is good practice for firms 
to send formal correspondence such as notice of a variation in the terms of an account by 
post. So I dont think that it was unreasonable for Santander to have sent the letters in the 
post or that it acted unfairly in this regard.   
Finally, I know that Miss P is unhappy that Santander hasnt taken the same steps another 
bank, which she has an account with, has - in terms of extending her student/graduate terms 
as a result of the pandemic. But each bank will have its own policies and practices. And it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to require Santander to extend Miss Ps 
student/graduate terms, just because another bank has. Equally, Ive noticed that Santander 
did pay Miss P an amount to cover a proportion of the fees it added, even though, for the 
reasons Ive explained, it was entitled to add them. So I dont think its fair to say that 
Santander hasnt taken any steps at all to help Miss P here. 
Overall and having considered everything, while I do appreciate Miss Ps strength of feeling 
on this matter, I dont think that Santander has treated her unfairly. And so Ive not been 
persuaded to uphold Miss Ps complaint. I realise that this will be very disappointing for          
Miss P. But I hope that shell understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that 
her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman