DRN-4378461
The complaint
Mr G complains about American International Group UK Limited (hereafter AIG) declining 
his personal accident claim.
What happened
Both sides are familiar with the background to this complaint, so Ill only provide an overview 
of what happened. 
Mr G had access to a group personal accident policy through his employer. It was 
underwritten by AIG and in 2023 Mr G made a claim for plantar fasciitis on it. 
AIG declined that claim and said while the available evidence showed Mr G had been 
diagnosed with plantar fasciitis there was no evidence of it being caused by an accident. AIG 
said the plantar fasciitis appeared to have been due to gradual cause, which wasnt 
something covered by the policy, and it maintained its decline following a complaint from Mr 
G too. 
When Mr G approached this service he told us there was nothing in his medical records to 
indicate the plantar fasciitis was caused gradually. He said his condition had been accepted 
by other schemes that were related to his former employer, and AIG had previously told him 
itd cover his claim were his condition to be accepted by one of those. So, Mr G said AIG 
should now pay his claim and cover his medical bills without delay.
Our investigator didnt think AIGs position was unreasonable. They said there wasnt clear 
evidence of Mr Gs condition being caused by a specific accident, and Mr Gs account of 
what had caused his plantar fasciitis differed from what had been said in his medical 
records. Our investigator also said the policy required a claimant to show the injury theyd 
suffered had caused permanent disablement within two years of it occurring too. And that it 
seemed very unlikely Mr G would be able to demonstrate that. They also said that other than 
Mr Gs recollection of events there was no other evidence of a conversation where AIG had 
agreed to provide cover if another scheme did. And, it wasnt unreasonable of AIG to have 
assessed Mr Gs claim against the terms of this personal accident policy.
Mr G disagreed with that opinion and asked that his complaint be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. He said the sequence of events set out by our investigator didnt tie in with 
where hed been located for work at the time, and he felt the bar was being raised each time 
he provided evidence which countered AIGs position. 
So the matter is now for me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I will not be addressing every point or argument raised. I will focus on those 
matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint and for the reasons Ill now 
explain Ill not be upholding it. 
The available cover 
The personal accident cover available to Mr G was set out in the policy terms and 
conditions. They read: 
If you suffer bodily injury during the period of cover which, within two years solely and 
independently of any other cause, results in death, permanent disablement, specified burns, 
specified fractures or hospitalisation, we will pay the total sum insured
The terms and conditions also explained certain words held specific meanings, and that 
bodily injury was defined as:
Injury to the body caused by an accident and not by any gradual cause
So, it wouldnt be enough for Mr G to show that he had plantar fasciitis. He would need to 
demonstrate that his plantar fasciitis was caused by an accident and not a gradual cause, 
and that within two years of it being caused by that itd solely and independently of any other 
cause led to permanent disablement. 
The available evidence
Both sides are aware of the medical evidence available in this complain so I wont recite it all 
again, but amongst it I note:
Mr Gs medical records, provided to AIG in February 2012 as part of a separate 
claim, show:
oAn entry from 21 November 2006 which says Problem (FIRST) Plantar 
Fasciitis and R heel pain since [a location Ill only call A]  came on while 
tabbing round the camp over uneven ground..  
oAn entry from 2 February 2007 which says Problem (FIRST) Heel bruise 
and Pain continues although there has been some improvement. 
oA list of active problems and past problems, with Plantar fasciitis listed as a 
past problem.
A restriction of duties medical certificate dated 21 November 2006 which reflects the 
above entry and gives a diagnosis of plantar fasciitis. 
Another restriction of duties medical certificate dated 2 February 2007 which also 
gives a diagnosis of severe bruised heels.
A claim form completed by Mr G in 2013 which described the condition as occurring 
when he was jumping over a log whilst running through woods in a place Ill call C.
A claim form completed by Mr G in June 2023 which said hed sustained his plantar 
fasciitis as a result of an accident that had occurred with Repetitive motion like 
running, jogging, walking, tabbing, standing for long periods of time or carrying a lot 
of weight putting a lot of pressure on the arch of both my feet.
Why Im not upholding this complaint
Based on all the available evidence and arguments Im not persuaded that it was 
unreasonable of AIG to reject this claim. I recognise Mr G will likely be further disappointed 
by this, but let me explain my reasons. AIG had a responsibility to handle Mr Gs claim promptly and fairly, and not reject it 
unreasonably. 
The policy required Mr G to demonstrate that his plantar fasciitis was caused by an accident 
and not the result of gradual cause. But theres conflicting information about how Mr Gs 
condition was caused and collectively I dont think the available evidence consistently 
identifies an accident.
I say this because the 2013 claim form said the condition had been caused by jumping over 
a log when running through woods in C, whereas the 2006 entry from the medical records 
referred to it coming on while tabbing around a camp on uneven ground in A. And further, 
the more recent 2023 claim form said it had been a result of repetitive motion like running, 
jogging, walking etc. 
There is no specific or consistent accident that can be drawn from that, and I dont think it 
was unreasonable of AIG to find that the policy terms hadnt been satisfied here. 
Mr G has told this service he filled the 2023 claim form out in the way he did because he had 
other arguments in mind  namely he says he needed to satisfy another body that his injury 
was due to his service at work, and had continued throughout that time. I thank him for 
providing this additional context, but it wasnt unreasonable of AIG to rely on the content of 
the evidence as it stood. 
I am also mindful that the policy would have needed Mr G to demonstrate, that within two 
years of it being caused, his plantar fasciitis had solely and independently of any other cause 
led to a permanent disablement too. And Im not persuaded this could likely be concluded 
from the available evidence at this point either, given the condition was diagnosed in 2006 
but the medical records provided to AIG some six years later in 2012 listed it as a past 
problem and not an active one.
Mr G has also told this service his condition was accepted elsewhere and AIG had told him 
itd accept his claim if it were. 
Generally speaking I wouldnt expect an insurer to depart from the terms and conditions of 
its own policy and accept a claim just because another body or provider had done so. The 
policy Mr G had access to was underwritten to provide cover in the event of an injury to the 
body being caused by an accident, and the available evidence doesnt demonstrate that 
happened here. Theres no evidence to corroborate Mr Gs testimony about what AIG had 
said either. I have no reason to doubt what Mr G has said of course, but without more itd be 
unfair of me to conclude that AIG had misled him and needed to take additional action to 
recognise the impact of that as a result.
I am sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr Gs condition is causing him, but in the 
circumstances Im not persuaded AIG declined this claim unreasonably. I am satisfied it 
reached reasonable conclusions based on the evidence made available to it and applied the 
terms and conditions of this policy fairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against American International Group 
UK Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman