DRN-3624533
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they says were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In October 2015, Mr and Mrs B was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs B decided to purchase the system 
and finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In June 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf under section 75 of the Act 
to Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs B to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would virtually pay for itself, in other words be self-funding, through the 
combined benefits of the feed-in tariff and electricity savings. 
Mr and Mrs B would only have to contribute about £200 per year towards the loan 
repayments. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt receive a copy of the quote until 2021.They say their decision to 
buy the system was solely based on what they were told verbally in the sales 
meeting. 
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs B or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mr and Mrs B and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for a number of reasons including:
Mr and Mrs B say they dont recognize the signature on the quote, which says it is Mr 
Bs, but has the initials of Mrs B. 
Greater weight shouldve been given to what Mr and Mrs B say they were told during 
the sales meeting. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs B could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs B and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B says that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr and Mrs Bs testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr and 
Mrs Bs version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Mr and Mrs B has said that the cost of the system was documented as £8,692.00. they have 
said that this was done to mislead them as this figure did not include any interest associated 
with the loan so hid the true cost of the system, £13,953.60.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B was told that the cost of the system was 
£8,692.00. The quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement 
which sets out that the cash price of the system was £8,692.00. The monthly payment was 
£116.26. The total amount of credit is £8,692.00 and goes on to show that the total amount 
payable would be £13,953.60.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr and Mrs Bs recollections, Im satisfied that 
they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote 
and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £8,692.00, 
it would cost Mr and Mrs B more than this as they had decided to pay for it with an interest 
bearing loan. 
Mr and Mrs B have said that they were told the monthly loan repayments would be covered, 
or self-funded by the FIT payments and electricity savings. Ive considered the quote that 
was provided by P as well as the Mr and Mrs Bs recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs B could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.
 
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs B could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £515.96, which results in an average monthly income of £42.99. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there 
would be a monthly loan repayment due of £116.26. As a result, Im not able to conclude 
that the consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT 
payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs B could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £404.51 and the combined income and 
savings in year one is shown as £920.47. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together.
The quote contains a graph titled earnings and savings against monthly payments year 1. 
This clearly shows that the monthly payments exceed the savings and income for most of 
the year.
Theres a section headed Repayment with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr and Mrs B entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan 
as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £114.39. For each year of the 10-year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £114.39, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs B could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefits they could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. 
This supports my finding above that Mr and Mrs B werent told that the FIT payment would 
cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about Mr and Mrs Bs version of events. 
However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the 
salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were 
told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs B that the system would be self-funding. In doing 
so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs B were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 12 the overall benefits that Mr and 
Mrs B could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs B that the system would pay for 
itself by year 12, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were 
an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into 
the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs B. I have looked at Mr and Mrs Bs FIT statements and 
Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected based on the statements provided.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between the sale 
and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I 
think this explains why Mr and Mrs B havent been receiving the financial returns they may 
have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than 
the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system 
has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2014. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs B 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs B entered into the 
contract.
Ive thought about the CMCs comments in response to the adjudicators assessment. But 
these havent led me to reach a different outcome. 
The signature on the quote appears to match up with Mrs Bs signature on the complaint 
form that the CMC sent to us. Im aware that the process in use at the time was for the quote 
to be shown to the customer on a laptop or tablet, and for them to sign it on the device. 
While this sometimes leads to signatures looking different to how they would if a pen and 
paper was used, in this case I think it is most likely that Mrs B signed the quote, given the 
similarity with her signature on our complaint form. I accept there appears to have been an 
error in that the name typed on the quote by the signature is Mr Bs, but Im mindful that it 
isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs B did agree to purchase the system during that meeting. 
In regards to how I have viewed the evidence about what Mr and Mrs B were told during the 
sales meeting, I have explained above why I have reached my decision. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs B 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman