DRN-3696094
The complaint
Mr M complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDF) charged interest on his 
account whilst he was on a Covid -19 payment deferral.
What happened
Mr M held two accounts with SDF. In April 2020 Mr M contacted SDF and said his income 
had been affected by the pandemic.
SDF placed both accounts on a two-month payment break and explained to Mr M that as a 
result, payment would not be required for two statement periods. Mr M contacted SDF 
because he had received a letter advising him that he was in arrears. Mr M said he didnt 
think interest should have been added to the account whilst he was in a payment 
arrangement.
In response, SDF advised Mr M that the interest added to his balance was from orders 
placed on his account and BNPL purchases. It said that when Mr M entered the payment 
freeze, the BNPL period was extended and the items remained on BNPL for the duration of 
the payment freeze. SDF said that when the payment freeze ended, the items that were on 
BNPL were charged to Mr Ms account together with deferred interest. SDF said that the 
position was the same in relation to the balance owing on the account for non BNPL items. It 
said the payment freeze meant that it wouldnt charge interest during the agreed period, but 
the account would continue to accrue interest.
Mr M complained to SDF. He said hed never been told that interest would be applied to his 
account with the Covid-19 payment deferral was in place. He was unhappy that the interest 
and charges had caused him to exceed his credit limit and said this was affecting his credit 
file.
In response, SDF said it had applied interest correctly. It acknowledged that it hadnt clearly 
explained to Mr M that interest would be applied whilst the payment deferment was in place 
and offered compensation of £200.
Mr M remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she didnt think SDF had acted 
unfairly by applying interest whilst Mr M was in a payment deferral but said it shouldve told 
Mr M about this. The investigator said the compensation already paid to Mr M was fair.
Mr M didnt agree. He said he hadnt been made aware that SDF would apply interest and 
said that if hed been told this, he would have borrowed money to make payments on his 
account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to understand the difference between a payment break and a payment holiday 
(or payment freeze as SDF called it).
A payment break is used where customers are in financial difficulty and finding it hard to 
make payments. In line with FCA guidance, these schemes charge zero interest and fees, 
suspend monthly payments and are notified to credit reference agencies.
Payment holidays started in April 2020. They were announced by the FCA in response to 
the effects on customers of the Covid-19 pandemic. All lenders  including SDF  had to put 
in place payment holidays on any credit agreements to help customers who were affected. 
Customers could ask for a total of two payment holidays, each one lasting 3 months. 
Payment holidays:
- Charged interest and fees. Where there was an interest free period, this was 
extended to run out at the end of the payment holiday period.
- Monthly payments were suspended but these started again after the end of the 
holiday
- Credit reference agencies were not notified
Ive looked at Mr Ms complaint in the light of this.
Payment break
Ive listened to the call between Mr M and SDF dated 8 April 2020. Mr M said he was having 
financial difficulties due to the pandemic. SDF said a two-month payment break would be 
applied to the accounts. The call handler said there would be no interest or charges applied 
during the payment break.
I would expect the terms of the payment break to have bee outlined in the call and his 
understanding checked. This didnt happen.
I can see that SDF agreed to remove £36 fees from the account during the payment break. If 
it hasnt done so already, SDF should remove any interest applied to the account during this 
time.
Payment holiday/Covid-19 deferral
Mr M is unhappy that he was charged interest during the payment holiday. But as Ive 
explained above, as part of the scheme, interest was still payable and deferred payments 
had to be made up. So Im unbale to say that SDF made an error when it charged interest.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think SDF provided a clear explanation to Mr M about the 
payment holiday, and the effect that this would have on interest and deferred payments. 
SDF has acknowledged poor communication and has paid £200 compensation. I think this is 
a fair amount and in line with what this service would award.
Mr M has said that if things had been explained properly, he would be borrowed money to 
make payments on the account rather than enter the payment holiday. As Ive said, I think 
SDF could have communicated things more clearly. However, even if they had done so, Im 
not persuaded that Mr M would have done things differently. If Mr M had the ability to borrow 
from family to make payments on his account, I dont think its likely that he wouldve asked 
SDF for a payment holiday.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im unable to uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman