DRN-3797265
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money they lost to an 
investment scam.
What happened
Payments to the scam were made from Mr Hs sole account and a joint account that he held 
with Mrs H. But, as it was Mr H that interacted with the fraudsters and the bank, for ease, Ill 
mostly refer to him throughout this decision.
After seeing an advert on social media, Mr H became involved in what he thought was a 
legitimate investment opportunity. It was explained to him that, in order to invest, hed need 
to open an account with a legitimate cryptocurrency provider and then send cryptocurrency 
to the investment company.  Mr H was given access to a trading account and could see the 
value of his investment increase. It appears that the fraudsters went on to impersonate the 
legitimate cryptocurrency provider and claimed that Mr H would need to pay money in order 
to access his funds. Mr H eventually contacted the genuine cryptocurrency provider and the 
police and the scam was revealed. In total, Mr and Mrs H lost over £50,000.
During the period of the scam, Mr H had a number of conversations with Lloyds. Lloyds 
hasnt been able to produce a recording of every interaction but I understand the events 
broadly took place as follows. In late August 2021 Mr H attempted to make a payment to the 
cryptocurrency provider. He spoke to the bank and revealed the involvement of a third party. 
It appears the bank expressed concern that he might be falling victim to a scam at this point 
and he did not go ahead with the payment.
Mr H attempted to make a similar payment on 31 August 2021. The payment was declined 
and he was referred to a branch. There doesnt appear to be a detailed record of what was 
discussed in the branch but, based on what is discussed during later conversations, it 
appears that at this point Mr H told the bank that he was no longer using a broker. The 
payment was made on 1 September 2021. Mr H attempted to make another payment on 7 
September 2021, but his online banking was still blocked, so he spoke to the bank again. 
Only the first part of this call is available  but another payment was released following it 
and, again based on what is said during this call and later conversations, it appears he also 
told the bank that the broker was no longer involved. 
A payment on 17 September 2021 was also stopped by Lloyds. Mr H said that there had 
previously been third party involvement, but hed recognised the risk of that and now wished 
to invest in cryptocurrency on his own. During this call Lloyds staff explained the specific risk 
and features of the kind of cryptocurrency scam that Mr H was falling victim to. A final 
intervention took place on 22 September 2021, again warnings were provided and Mr H said 
that he had previously been helped to invest, but now was doing so of his own accord. A 
further three payments took place, without intervention, after that one.
Mr H reported the matter to Lloyds, but it declined to reimburse him. It said that the 
payments werent covered under the provisions of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) because they hadnt been made to another person. It 
also said that as the funds hadnt been lost from Lloyds, but the legitimate cryptocurrency 
provider, it couldnt be held responsible for their loss. 
The matter was referred to our service. One of our Investigators agreed that the 
circumstances werent covered by the CRM Code and thought that Lloyds had acted in line 
with good industry practice by intervening and questioning some of the payments made. 
They felt that Lloyds had provided a clear warning to Mr H and that he hadnt been truthful in 
his responses. They concluded that Lloyds intervention was sufficient and that it couldnt be 
held responsible for Mr Hs loss.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative didnt agree. He pointed out that Lloyds had failed to 
intervene on the final three payments and argued that this was a failure that should result in 
liability for it. He also said that Lloyds could have asked different, better, questions.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point under the relevant regulations is that Mr H is responsible for payments 
hes authorised himself. Im also satisfied that the transactions Mr H made are not within the 
scope of the CRM Code. Information obtained from the cryptocurrency provider shows that 
the I.P. addresses used to access Mr Hs cryptocurrency account were largely consistent 
with the I.P. addresses used to access his Lloyds online banking facility. This strongly 
suggests that, if he did not transfer cryptocurrency to the fraudsters himself, he was present 
when those transactions took place and he had access to the cryptocurrency account when 
they were being made. Therefore, I cannot say that the payments from Mr Hs Lloyds 
account went to another person as required by the CRM Code.
But taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time these payments were made, I think 
Lloyds ought, fairly and reasonably, to have been on the lookout for out of character and 
unusual transactions and other indications that its customer might be at risk of financial harm 
from fraud. 
Its not in dispute here that Lloyds did intervene and discuss a number of the payments with 
Mr H before they debited his account. I think this was warranted given the unusual nature of 
the activity. And there certainly were reasons for the bank to be concerned here. Mr H had 
admitted the role of a broker just a week before he attempted to make a payment on 31 
August 2021. Mr H hasnt provided his recollections about this or his correspondence with 
the fraudster around this time. I can only imagine that that fraudster was able to convince 
him to continue with the investment and not to disclose their involvement. 
But, I think there was only so much the bank could do here. It appears that Mr H was 
adamant that he was now investing of his own accord and not sending any money to a third 
party. I think that, particularly in the calls on 17 and 22 September 2021 Lloyds gave good, 
clear, warnings about the particular risk of the scam Mr H was falling victim to. Given that Mr 
H was dissuaded from going ahead with a payment on 24 August 2021 and was referred to 
the branch on 31 August 2021, its likely similar warnings were given around those times as 
well.The warnings I have heard describe in some detail the hallmarks and mechanics of a typical 
cryptocurrency investment scam  pointing out key features like the involvement of a third 
party claiming to be a broker or cryptocurrency investment company, customers being asked 
to set up cryptocurrency accounts, the promise of significant returns and customers being 
told that the fraudsters will manage their investment. The circumstances the bank described 
appear to have quite closely mirrored what happened to Mr H. He also misled the bank 
about the involvement of a third party and the fact he had given them access to his 
computer. It seems to me that some of the payments were only released because Mr H 
assured the bank that he was not sending any cryptocurrency from the legitimate provider to 
a third party. While, as Mr Hs representative argues, Lloyds could have asked different 
questions, Im not persuaded that Lloyds reasonably should have done this or that those 
questions would have been answered any more honestly. 
 
While Lloyds, fairly and reasonably, ought to question unusual payments, I wouldnt expect 
them to interrogate Mr H and, in these circumstances, after having provided a clear warning 
to him and satisfied themselves that a third party was no longer involved, I dont think they 
made an error in releasing the payments. I dont wish to blame Mr H for giving the answers 
he did, I understand hes likely to have been coached into giving them. But I cannot hold 
Lloyds responsible for his loss unless I think it ought reasonably to have prevented the 
scam. Its difficult to see how it could have done in these circumstances.
While I recognise that there were three payments of a significant size that were not stopped 
by Lloyds, it doesnt necessarily follow that it made a mistake by not stopping every 
payment. After all, it had already discussed payments to the same recipient with Mr H on 
several occasions, much to Mr Hs frustration. But even if I accepted it should have 
questioned those payments, I dont think that the scam would have come to light and, some 
or all of, the loss would have been prevented. The evidence of the previous conversations 
he had with Lloyds suggests that Mr H would have been just as likely to have not disclosed 
the involvement of a third party, or the true circumstances around the payments, and to have 
been equally determined to carry on making them. 
Finally, as these payments were made to Mr Hs account at a cryptocurrency provider and 
the firm operating that account has confirmed the cryptocurrency was sent to a third party, I 
dont think Lloyds had any realistic prospect of recovering his money.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr H. I dont doubt that he was taken in by 
sophisticated fraudsters, but Im afraid that I dont find Lloyds responsible for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman