DRN-2709057
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly rejected a claim she made for vet fees
on her pet insurance policy. Reference to Aviva includes the actions of other businesses that
handled the matter on their behalf.
What happened
Mrs P took out a pet insurance policy with Aviva in April 2019. This provided cover for vet
bills and treatment for Mrs Ps pet, M.
Mrs P says M was showing signs of being unable to jump or put pressure on his back legs, 
so he was taken to the vets for an examination in September 2019. The vet said an MRI
scan would be required to determine the cause.
On checking with Aviva, Mrs P was told the costs would be covered, provided it wasnt a pre-
existing illness. Satisfied that it wasnt, Mrs P went ahead. The MRI reached a conclusion of
hydrosyringomelia and multifocal chronic degenerative intervertebral disc disease.
Following their assessment of the claim and Ms clinical history, Aviva concluded that M had
been suffering from the same conditions in February 2019, because M had been recorded
as showing signs which are typical of them back then. Aviva declined the claim on the basis
that pre-existing illnesses, or conditions, arent covered by the policy.
Mrs P didnt agree with this, saying her vet agreed this wasnt a pre-existing condition. The
matter was considered by our service and an investigator here said Aviva had been unfair in
declining the claim. They said there was nothing to prove the conditions found in
September 2019 were related to the symptoms presenting in February 2019. And that the
independent vet had said it was impossible to say that with 100% certainty.
Aviva disagreed, maintaining that the symptoms in February 2019 were likely caused by the 
conditions diagnosed in September 2019. The case has now been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month, explaining as follows:
I think it may be helpful if I begin by explaining that Im not a veterinary expert, so my role
isnt to make any separate diagnosis in relation to Ms condition. Its for me to determine
whether Aviva has been reasonable in their handling of the claim  which includes their
interpretation of the evidence provided by the various experts involved.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs P but I currently think Aviva handled the claim fairly and
reasonably, Ill explain why.
Mrs Ps insurance policy provides cover for the cost of vet fees incurred in the treatment of
M. But, as is common with pet insurance, it also says they wont pay for the cost of any
treatment for a pre-existing condition. A pre-existing condition is defined in the policy as:
a. An injury that happened or an illness that first showed clinical signs before your 
pets cover started, or
b. An injury or illness that is the same as, or has the same diagnosis or clinical signs 
as an injury, illness or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started, or
c. An injury or illness that is caused by, relates to, or relates from, an injury, incident,
 illness or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started. No matter where the
 injury, illness or clinical signs are noticed or happen in, or on, your pets body.
The words and phrases in bold are defined within the policy but I dont believe there to any
concern that they have unusual meanings in this matter. I consider c. to be the broadest of
these terms and the most relevant to this claim.
Ms vet has commented as follows:
M showed lumbar pain when examined in February [2019] and there are chances that this
could be related to some of the collateral findings of the MRI (hydrosyringomyelia and
multifocal chronic degenerative intervertebral disease of the lumbar spine).
However, M was presented in September [2019] for cervical pain which was never
reported or identified before and which prompted the subsequent MRI scan.
The acute neck pain is to be attributed, as per the MRI findings, to an intervertebral disc
protrusion visible in C6/7 and likely aggravated by the hydrosyringomyelia at that level.
And:
 the acute cervical pain noted firstly in September [2019] during the clinical examination
was caused mainly by the intervertebral disc protrusion present between c6 and c7 and
aggravated by the hydrosyringomyelia at that level. The acute cervical pain was a new
symptom which was the reason to investigate with the MRI.
The emphasis provided above is to reflect that which, I believe, was added to the letter by
Mrs P.
I can appreciate from that why Mrs P would feel the conditions found in the MRI scan were
new. While I understand that the vet is saying the cervical, or neck, pain was never reported
or identified before, they have also said there are chances that the lumbar pain in
February 2019 could be related to the MRI findings. And I think its telling that its described
as a new symptom, as opposed to a new condition.
Nevertheless, Aviva didnt consider the above to be sufficiently conclusive, which I think is
reasonable in the circumstances. So, they sought a second opinion from an independent vet.
The independent vet said:
I have reviewed the evidence available and although it is impossible to say with 100%
certainty that the two episodes of spinal pain are linked, it is my professional opinion that
they are highly likely to be linked. On this basis I would decline this claim.
The patient has had spinal pain pre policy inception. Both of the key findings in the MRI
(inter vertebral disc disease and hydrosyringomyelia) are chronic disease processes. Both
will have been present and established at the time of presentation pre inception and so
either or both of these disease conditions were likely to be the source of pain at that point
also.
The investigator said the claim was unfairly rejected. That was on the basis that there wasnt
conclusive proof that the symptoms noticed in February 2019 were caused by the samecondition, as diagnosed following the MRI scan in September 2019. But that isnt the test
here, we consider such matters on the balance of probability.
The cervical pain, or symptoms, may not have been present before the policy was taken out.
But based on what the two vets have said, I think its more likely than not that the cause of
the lumbar pain in February 2019 was the hydrosyringomelia and/or the multifocal chronic
degenerative intervertebral disc disease. The MRI report says the distention in the cervical
spine is mild to moderate and that its moderate to severe in the lumbar spine.
Because of that, and as the condition worsened, I think its understandable that the lumbar
area would have shown signs earlier than the cervical area. So, returning to the exclusion in
the policy, I think it is fair to say the illness was caused by, relates to, or results from, an
illness or clinical sign your pet had before its cover started. No matter where the illness
or clinical signs are noticed or happen in, or on, your pets body. M had shown clinical
signs of the conditions diagnosed in September 2019, back in February 2019.
The independent vet has also explained that the level of deterioration in Ms condition, as
found in September 2019, is not indicative of the illness having only started to develop after
the policy was taken out in April 2019. So the conditions wouldve been present in February
2019 and, in the absence of any other explanation, seem likely to have caused the lumbar
pain at that stage.
I do appreciate this matter has been ongoing for a long time, that the costs incurred were
substantial and that Mrs P has talked of the difficulties this has caused. So, Im sorry to say
that I dont think the claim was unfairly rejected. But I would like to reassure Mrs P that that
wasnt concluded without careful consideration and challenge of Avivas evidence.
Aviva accepted my provisional decision. Mrs P did not, raising a number of points and 
questions which Ill cover below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having given the matter further thought I maintain what I set out in my provisional decision, 
but Ill address those points and questions raised in relation to this outcome.
How can you now come to the conclusion that they are related when a specialist vet 
has said its impossible?
The vet has further explained that the reason for the comment about 100% certainty was 
because animals cant talk, so it can be difficult to know exactly what is wrong during an 
appointment.
The specialist vet said it isnt possible to say with 100% certainty that the conditions were 
related, but that it was highly likely they were linked. Ive explained that the test we use here 
is the balance of probability. Given the vet had said it was highly likely they were linked, I 
took that to mean they were more likely than not to be linked.
The treating vet not seeing any cause for concern in February 2019, and the health 
check completed in March 2019.
The vet has explained that hydrosyringomyelia is a condition which will often show signs of 
hind leg weakness and that in February 2019 M was said to be reluctant to go up-stairs or jump on the sofa. The vet has pointed out this was similar to what was reported in 
September 2019. I thought about whether this could be a coincidence, but the condition has 
been said to be one which will show signs intermittently, so can come and go, as appears to 
have been the case here.
The vet has explained that based on how far developed the conditions were found to be in 
September 2019, they would have been present in February 2019. And both are capable of 
creating the clinical signs shown at that stage.
I also thought about the point with the anal glands. But the vet notes from February 2019 
suggest musculoskeletal pain was found. And weve been advised that pain from anal
glands will normally only happen when the glands are infected or impacted, rather than 
being full. If the issue was as simple as the anal glands being expressed, I think its unlikely 
a follow-up appointment would even have been discussed. Rather, that suggests to me
Mrs Ps vet felt further investigation for an underlying condition may have been required back 
then. And while none was needed straight away, that seems to be because the symptoms 
had temporarily cleared whilst the conditions remained. 
Im very sorry for how my decision has made Mrs P feel, that wasnt my intention. I also 
understand the point about my decision being based on the vets opinions, and that it cant 
be said for a fact the conditions in September 2019 caused the symptoms in February 2019.
While we at the ombudsman service can challenge a vets opinion where some reason for 
doubt exists  which I did here  ultimately, as the expert, the vets opinion is important. And 
given what both vets have said, along with the veterinary notes, I felt it was reasonable for 
Aviva to decline the claim as pre-existing. Because that was on the basis it was more likely 
than not that the discomfort felt by M in February 2019 was caused by early stages of the 
conditions found in September 2019.
I appreciate it may be of little comfort to Mrs P but the vet has assured us there is no 
personal, professional or financial advantage for him to advise whether a claim should be 
approved or declined. So I dont think he wouldve said there was a link unless he genuinely, 
and professionally, believed there to be one.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman