DRN-2955208
The complaint
Mr F complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) havent processed a chargeback for him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr F, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain.
I was sorry to hear about the problems Mr F has been having and I can understand that it
must be frustrating for him to have received a credit note for a service he can no longer use 
because the business is no longer trading.
The chargeback scheme that Mr F sought to benefit from is managed not by TSB but by 
Visa. They set time limits within which claims need to be submitted and as Mr Fs claim was 
made more than 120 after the date upon which he was meant to travel, Visa would not 
consider a claim and TSB couldnt process one. 
Whilst I can see that Mr F was given an indication by trade association that the chargeback 
scheme administrators would use the date of the expiration of the credit note as the date 
from which the 120 days would run, that wasnt the case. Visa clarified the rules it would 
apply in May 2020 and told business that if a consumer accepts a credit note and the 
business goes into administration, the date business use is the date the consumer expected 
to travel.
Whilst I understand that Mr F says he knows of others who have had their chargeback 
claims upheld I cant say that TSB have been unreasonable when rejecting Mr Fs claim as I 
think their interpretation of the scheme rules has been accurate.
So, I dont think TSB did anything wrong when declining to process a chargeback; the 
scheme rules prevented them from doing so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman