DRN-3043109
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected their claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to the benefits of a 
solar panel system that they say were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
What happened
In or around March 2014, Mr and Mrs T were contacted by a representative of a company, 
Ill call P, to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at 
their home. After a visit from Ps salesman, Mr and Mrs T decided to purchase the system 
and finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
Mr and Mrs T are represented by a claims management company (the CMC). In February 
2017, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Ts behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs T to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said that, amongst others, the following misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system, including VAT, had been documented as £7,000.00 to 
mislead Mr and Mrs T  this figure didnt include any interest associated with the 
loan, so the true cost was £11,266.80; 
Mr and Mrs T werent told that there would be an annual deficit to them of £484.84; 
the credit agreement would be self-funded by the Feed-in Tariff (FIT) payments 
alone; 
the system would not cost them a penny;
they would make savings on their electricity bills; 
They were pressured into signing the agreement.
The CMC also raised concerns under section 140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr and Mrs T and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations 
made about the systems expected performance.
On making the section 75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC provided: a copy of a record of a 
non-compliance hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC) dated 
December 2013, copies of marketing material used by P, job adverts for P, the loan 
agreement with Shawbrook and some of Mr and Mrs Ts electricity bills and FIT statements.
In its final response letter to this complaint, Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information 
it held on file, as well as information provided by P, that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr and Mrs T or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be 
upheld. In summary, it said:
the contract P had provided Mr and Mrs T set out the expected total returns from the 
system and this, alongside the finance agreement, made clear the benefits that could 
be expected from the system and the cost to Mr and Mrs T;
the savings stated on the purchase contract included those expected to be made 
from the voltage optimizer, so the figure quoted wasnt incorrect;
The panels had generated in excess of the estimated performance;
Mr and Mrs Ts electricity bills had come down significantly since the panels were 
installed and theyd get an even greater benefit if they were to move from a pre-
payment meter to a traditional billed meter, particularly considering some pre-
payment meters arent compatible with solar systems;  
the performance of the system, and any deterioration, is set out in the contract;
Shawbrook didnt pay any commission to P for introducing Mr and Mrs T to it;
There had been no pressure selling, which Mr and Mrs T had confirmed in their 
customer satisfaction survey;
The inverter did carry a warranty;
The system did have insurance-backed warranties and certificates could be obtained 
from the insurer;
Shawbrook had carried out appropriate credit checks on Mr and Mrs T; and
Mr and Mrs T were told of their cancellation rights and these are clear in the 
documentation  Mr and Mrs T confirmed they were told about them in the consumer 
satisfaction survey
Unhappy with this response, the CMC referred Mr and Mrs Ts complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the information 
and evidence provided, our investigator agreed that P had told Mr and Mrs T that the system 
would be self-funding from year one.
The investigator looked at Mr and Mrs Ts FIT payments and electricity bills and thought that 
these showed the benefits of the system did cover the cost in the first year as Mr and Mrs T 
had been told by P. So there had been no misrepresentation. And Mr and Mrs T hadnt 
suffered a loss.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, it said:
the self-consumption rate used when predicting the benefits should be at a rate of 
37% and P had exaggerated the savings by using a higher rate; 
the electricity rate used in the quote was £0.1532, when it should have been 0.1375; 
and
the sales representative verbally told Mr and Mrs T numerous times that the system 
would be self-funding.
It also suggested that we speak to Mr T for his recollection. When our investigator spoke to 
Mr T, he told us:
P told them there was an insurance policy sold alongside the system that would 
cover the difference between the benefits and the loan repayments; andthey were promised a yearly service by P, but this hasnt happened.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The relevant law for this complaint includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c)
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the
debtor.
As Mr and Mrs T paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, the parties agree that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs T could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs T and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor 
because of one or more of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under
the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before
or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether to make a determination under this section the court shall have 
regard to all matters it thinks relevant (including matters relating to the creditor and matters
relating to the debtor).Representations made by P
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and Mr and Mrs Ts solar quote, entitled Your Personal 
Solar Quotation. Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged 
misrepresentations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact, alongside Mr and Mrs Ts recollection of the sale.
There is a page entitled system performance and returns with a series of tables. Theres a 
section titled repayments. This has three tables set out over 60 months, 120 months and 
180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as this is the length of the loan that Mr 
and Mrs T took from Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 120 monthly payments of 
£93.89 due and compares the overall expected total return from the system, averaged over 
a monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system versus
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing
the two. Im satisfied that this table shows that in the first year Mr and Mrs T were expected 
to have made a profit of £1.51 a month and in the second year this would increase to a profit 
of £6.50 a month. 
I consider that this table makes it clear that the system would be self-funding from the start. 
And if this turns out to be untrue, it might amount to a misrepresentation by P.
Benefits of the system
Mr and Mrs T have provided their FIT statements and electricity bills and Ive looked at these 
to establish the benefits that the system provided in the year following installation.
Mr and Mrs T have given us their FIT statements from 20 March 2015 to 27 March 2016 
which show they received £641.84 over this time for FIT and electricity export generation. 
The statements cover a 373-day period, so Ive calculated that Mr and Mrs T actually 
received £628.07 in that year.
Mr and Mrs T have also provided their electricity bills from before and after installation, which 
show a reduction in the cost they were paying of £433.63. Despite asking the CMC, we 
havent been provided with any bills showing the actual energy used by Mr and Mrs T 
following the installation. All we have is the cost, as Mr and Mrs T were using a pre-payment 
meter at the time. And the energy usage isnt stated on their statement from what was by 
then a new supplier.
So, this makes a comparison more difficult. But I have seen that Mr and Mrs T had a 
particularly high energy usage before they had the system fitted. This was over 8,500 kWh a 
year. I expect that this more likely than not reduced quite considerably after the panels were 
fitted, given its clear that the cost to them came down significantly. That will more likely than 
not have been both as a result of the panels generating electricity, which Mr and Mrs T and 
their family were using, but also due to the benefits of the voltage optimiser fitted as part of 
the system. 
Mr and Mrs T received what looks to be about £1,060 from FIT and export payments as well 
as electricity bill savings in the year after the system was installed. Mr and Mrs Ts annual 
loan repayments totalled £1,126.68. So, whilst there was a small differential there, the 
panels do appear to have performed in line with the estimates made. Without exact 
electricity usage figures, it isnt possible for me to determine whether Mr and Mrs Ts actual 
energy savings were even better than those which Ive set out above. And with the change in 
supplier, this makes things even more difficult to work out, as the electricity unit charges will 
have been different.
The voltage optimiser also affects the savings, not just from the solar panels, but for all 
electricity consumed by Mr and Mrs T and their family. So, the savings could in fact have 
been even greater. But, overall, I have concluded that the performance of the system, and 
savings achieved, were more likely than not in line with the estimates made by P. 
Theres no evidence that the system hasnt continued to perform in line with the first years 
savings. So, I cant say that the benefits of the system were misrepresented to Mr and Mrs 
T. They do appear to cover the annual loan cost. And given the savings were predicted to 
increase over the course of the loan due to inflation, I cant say here that Mr and Mrs Ts 
system hasnt been self-funding as they allege.
Further considerations
Ive also considered the other points made by the CMC in its original complaint and the 
responses given by Shawbrook. And I dont consider any of the allegations to have been 
made out. In summary:
I havent found that there were any pressurised sales tactics or that Mr and Mrs T 
werent told about their cancellation rights. They confirm each of these things didnt 
happen in their signed customer satisfaction survey;
Shawbrook has provided evidence that it checked Mr and Mrs T could afford the 
loan;
There is a warranty for the inverter, and this is detailed in the sales documentation;
I understand that guarantees were provided, and the insurance certificates can be 
obtained by Mr and Mrs T from the insurer if they want;
The systems deterioration each year is set out in the quote;
There was no commission paid to P. And given that Ive found there were no 
misrepresentations here, I dont consider a court would find this to have been an 
unfair relationship under Section 140A of the Act.In response to our investigators opinion, the CMC said that a 37% self-consumption rate 
should have been used and that P has used a higher rate to exaggerate the electricity 
savings. 
Around the point of sale, the government set a 50% self-consumption rate when estimating 
the savings a consumer could make. The CMC has said that a 37% rate is fair based on a 
report provided by an industry expert, which was produced a number of years after the 
panels were installed. I think it was fair for P to use a 50% self-consumption rate here as this 
was based on the guidance available at the time of the sale. Given the reduction in cost for 
electricity that Mr and Mrs T have seen, I cant say that this prediction was way off what Mr 
and Mrs T have actually achieved.
The CMC has said that P used an electricity rate of 15.32p when it should have used 
13.75p. Mr and Mrs Ts electricity bills from before the system was fitted show they were 
paying 13.75p per kWh for electricity at the point of sale. Shawbrook have explained that P 
would use a standard rate of 15.32p when calculating the potential electricity savings that 
the system would generate. This was apparently based on guidance provided by the 
government at the time of sale. I dont think that this was an unreasonable rate for P to have 
used. Theres no evidence that Mr and Mrs T told P the actual rate that they were getting. 
And the savings that Mr and Mrs T have benefited from, are in any event around the same 
as P predicted at the point of sale.  So, I cant say that the use of this rate has caused Mr 
and Mrs T any financial loss.
Mr T said to our investigator that he thought they were getting an insurance policy that would 
cover the difference between the benefits and loan repayments if there was a deficit. They 
have explained that they werent given any paperwork by P about this and it would 
automatically happen if there was a deficit.
As Ive said above, I think its likely that the benefits of the panels have been around the 
same as, or better than, the cost from year one. So, an insurance policy would not have 
needed to cover any deficit here, as there hasnt been one. There is reference in the sales 
documentation to a 25-year guarantee on the output of the system. So, it could be that is 
what Mr T remembers they were told here. As theres otherwise no evidence of Mr and Mrs 
T suffering a loss, the existence of an insurance policy or not doesnt affect the outcome of 
their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs T have also said that they were promised a yearly service by P, but this hasnt 
happened. Ive looked at the quotation and can see that there is a breakdown of what was 
sold alongside the solar panels. This list includes a 48-hour repair response, with dedicated 
customer care and a free monthly performance check by our technical team. P are still 
trading so I would expect both of these services to still be available. Mr and Mrs T should 
contact P directly if theyd like them to do either of these things.
The annual service isnt included on the invoice, so I cant say that this is something that Mr 
and Mrs T have paid for. And as it wasnt raised in the original complaint, and Shawbrook 
hasnt had an opportunity to answer it, I wont make a finding in respect of it here. If Mr and 
Mrs T are still unhappy that theyve not had their service, then Id suggest they raise this with 
P first, and then Shawbrook, if they dont like the response that they get.
Conclusion
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs T 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this
complaint.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and I wont be requiring 
that Shawbrook Bank Limited do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman