DRN-2944689
The complaint
Ms C has complained about her motor insurer Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIE) in 
respect of a claim she made after her car was stolen. Ms C thinks AIE handled her claim 
poorly and charged an unfair excess.
What happened
Ms Cs car was stolen in August 2020. She called the police when she found the car was 
missing, and AIE the next day. 
When Ms C had arranged her policy she had said the registered keeper for the car was a 
company. This detail was included on her insurance documents. But when she made her 
claim AIE then became concerned as it noted it wouldnt usually offer cover for commercial 
vehicles. Ms C said this was her car, which she owned, and she provided the finance 
agreement to show this. AIE wasnt satisfied and demanded to be told what relationship 
Ms C had with the registered keeper. AIE then also became concerned that Ms Cs address 
on the finance agreement was different to the address for the policy. 
On 20 November 2020 AIE asked Ms C a direct question about the different addresses. 
Ms C replied just a few hours later explaining that she had moved to the policy address. She 
provided details for her council tax to help AIE verify this. Ms Cs car had now been 
recovered and AIE, still without an explanation from Ms C about the registered keeper 
details, decided to settle the claim. This was ultimately done on the basis of the recovered 
car being a total loss and the claim settlement was agreed on 4 December 2020.
Ms C was still concerned  she felt AIE had delayed all the way through. She thought its 
insistence on knowing more about the registered keeper had been unreasonable as the 
important fact was she was the owner of the car. She also felt that AIE had asked for details 
in a piecemeal fashion, which had also wasted time. She told AIE, with it only paying the 
settlement on 14 December 2020 that shed be unlikely to be able to find a new car before 
Christmas  which was a position she wouldnt have been in if it had settled her claim earlier. 
She said she felt it should cover her travel expenses incurred due to its delays. She later 
calculated those costs to be £428.91. Ms C also felt AIE should pay her compensation for 
the upset caused by its delays.
Ms C further told AIE shed been unhappy about a £95 excess it had deducted from her 
settlement payment. Ms C said the only policy paperwork she had showed an excess of 
£250, which she was happy to pay. But not the further £95 AIE was also asking for. 
AIE told Ms C that it accepted there had been delays. It said it would be willing to refund the 
£250 excess sum by way of compensation. But it didnt offer to refund any travel costs or 
reimburse the £95 excess sum. Ms C remained unhappy and reverted to us.
Our investigator felt the compensation sum was reasonable but that AIE should be paying 
towards Ms Cs stated travel costs as well. He said AIE paying £215 for Ms Cs costs would 
be fair. He also felt that as AIE couldnt show it had told Ms C about the £95 excess sum, it 
should refund this to her. AIE agreed to pay the £215 towards travel costs. But it didnt agree 
that it had failed to make Ms C aware of the £95 excess. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think AIE could have handled this claim better. If it had Ive no doubt it would have been 
settled much earlier. And I note that AIE itself accepts that it caused delays. Ms C reports 
that one email she sent to AIE didnt receive a reply for a month. And I note that AIE had a 
copy of Ms Cs finance agreement for a month before it asked her the direct question about 
the different addresses. If even just these two issues had been responded to or actioned 
sooner, then I think the period of the claim would have been condensed.
I can see that AIE was concerned about the detail of the registered keeper. But apart from its 
initially stated worry about not covering commercial vehicles, it also seemed to think it 
couldnt make a settlement to Ms C as owner without getting authorisation from the 
registered keeper. Or at least an understanding of Ms Cs relationship with that company 
which would show authorisation wasnt needed. I think though that whether or not AIEs 
concerns in this respect were reasonable, it didnt need to hold off its other considerations of 
the claim in the meantime. It had offered a policy to Ms C even knowing the registered 
keeper was a company, so there was no question it had liability for the loss. And its concern 
over who the settlement might be due to didnt mean it couldnt progress the claim in the 
meantime. I can understand why Ms C was frustrated with its queries and I think the way in 
which AIE handled this aspect did further delay the claim.
Ms C suffered distress and inconvenience on account of the delays. And shes also reported 
financial loss in respect of transport costs.
AIE offered £250 compensation for upset. And I think, in the circumstances, given the period 
in question and that Ms C was away from home for at least some of that time (meaning she 
wasnt in need of her car), thats fair and reasonable. 
Thinking about Ms Cs travel costs, Im mindful that whenever the claim was settled, there 
would always have been a period where Ms C would have been without a car. Im also 
mindful that if she had been using a car, rather than taxis for example, shed have had costs 
and overheads to pay, including the cost of insurance. So Im not persuaded it would be fair 
to make AIE reimburse the entirety of her requested transport costs. But I think that if things 
had been settled in a more timely manner Ms C would most likely have been able to make 
better arrangements and her time without a car during the seasonal period (when shes then 
had to make further arrangements to get around) wouldnt have occurred. As such I think 
that but for AIEs delays, Ms C wouldve been able to find a replacement car sooner than she 
actually did and her out of pocket costs whilst she did that wouldve been less. So I think its 
reasonable for AIE to pay towards the costs she incurred, and Im satisfied that it paying her 
£215 (being approximately 50% of the total requested sum) in this respect is fair.
Ms C has satisfied me that when AIE provided her policy paperwork online, it didnt send her 
a copy of the insurance schedule. Im also satisfied that this is the only document that details 
the £95 excess and that none of the other paperwork gives any indication that more than 
one excess will be charged. Ms C was sent and did see the document headed Statement of 
Insurance / Statement of Facts. And this detailed a £250 excess. In the circumstances Im 
satisfied that this is the only excess it was reasonable for AIE to charge Ms C. It reasonably 
needs to refund her the further £95 it deducted from her claims settlement. And in line with our usual process, it should add interest* to this sum from 14 December 2020, the date the 
claim was paid until settlement is made. 
Putting things right
I require AIE to pay Ms C:
£250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
£215 as compensation for Ms Cs financial loss in respect of transport costs.
£95 as reimbursement of the second excess sum, plus interest* from 14 December 2020 
until settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If AIE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Ms C, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms C a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to provide the redress 
set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman