DRN-2539398
The complaint
Miss I complains about the sale of her private medical insurance policy by AXA PPP 
Healthcare Limited.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Under Miss Is former employers group scheme, AXA applied an exclusion to her 
cover from April 2018 for depression, post-traumatic stress disorder and associated 
conditions. Miss I was aware of this.
Miss I contacted AXA in July 2019 to get a quote so that she could continue her 
cover on an individual basis once she left her employer. She was advised of her 
underwriting options, one of those being a continuation of her medical exclusions. 
She was told that meant she would retain any medical underwriting applied under the 
previous scheme. I think AXA could have been clearer in this call, as Miss I wanted 
the continuation option, but without the exclusions. I would have expected AXA to 
clarify that the continuation option meant that any exclusions had to transfer across, 
but it didnt do so. 
Miss I contacted AXA again in December 2019. During that call, she advised AXA 
that she wanted a policy that mirrored the one with her previous employer. Im 
satisfied that it was made clear to her that the individual policy would be arranged 
with a continuation of her medical exclusions so she would retain any medical 
underwriting applied on the previous scheme. Miss I decided to go ahead and take 
out the individual policy after this had been explained to her.
The membership certificate then sent to Miss I confirmed she had taken out cover as 
a continuation option. It confirmed that meant it was continuing her exclusions for 
medical conditions from her previous insurance.
Ideally, the membership certificate would have stated the actual exclusion that had 
been transferred from the group scheme. However, I dont think this disadvantaged 
Miss I, because she was aware that AXA had added that particular exclusion to her 
cover under the group scheme the previous year. 
Overall, whilst I think AXA could have made things clearer during the July 2019 call, 
Im satisfied that Miss I understood how the underwriting worked on her policy before 
she agreed to take it out. Consequently, I dont find that the policy was mis-sold.
For the above reasons I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman