DRN-1745080
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about how Barclays Bank UK PLC handled their request to cancel a 
cheque drawn from their account. 
What happened
On 2 October 2019 Mr and Mrs H issued a cheque for £3,000 payable to their builder. A few 
days later they called Barclays to stop the cheque  because they felt they had 
been overcharged for the works carried out. Barclays said the cheque had been stopped and 
would not be processed. A fee was charged for stopping the cheque. 
A new cheque was issued to their builder later that month for £1,309.54. Mr and Mrs H later 
realised that the first cheque wasn't stopped and both amounts were debited from 
their account. 
Mr and Mrs H complained to Barclays and asked for £3,000 to be refunded to them. 
Barclays upheld their complaint. It admitted it gave the wrong information during the call. It 
acknowledged that if it had given Mr and Mrs H the right information, they wouldn't have 
issued the second cheque, so it refunded them £1,309.54 along with the £12.50 stop cheque 
charge and a further £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs H were not satisfied with Barclays' response, so they brought their complaint to 
our service. An investigator looked into things and felt Barclays had handled the complaint 
fairly. Mr and Mrs H didn't agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key facts about this complaint aren't in dispute. Barclays has admitted it got things 
wrong. So, the only issue I must decide is whether what it has done to put things right is fair 
and reasonable.
Barclays says the cheque for £3,000 was presented for payment by the recipient on Friday 4 
October 2019. Mr and Mrs H called up at some point over the weekend to stop the cheque. 
The advisor did not see that the cheque had already been presented, so agreed the stop 
was possible. The funds left Mr and Mrs Hs account on Monday 7 October 2019. So, Im 
satisfied the cheque was presented before the weekend, as the earliest it could clear was 
the next working day.
Barclays' terms and conditions state that a cheque can be cancelled or stopped before it has 
been presented for payment by the recipient. When Mr and Mrs H called to stop the cheque, 
they should've been told that this wasn't possible as the cheque had already been presented 
for payment. 
As a service, our awards are designed to compensate consumers  not punish 
organisations. I've considered what would have happened if things hadn't gone wrong and whether the compensation offered by Barclays puts Mr and Mrs H in the position theyd be in 
if the problem had never happened.
It was never possible to stop the cheque because the recipient had presented it before the 
stop was requested. So, its not reasonable for me to ask Barclays to pay Mr and Mrs H 
£3,000 compensation. But I agree that if they were given the right information, Mr and Mrs 
H wouldn't have issued the second cheque. So, I think it's right that Barclays refunded the 
£1,309.54 for the second cheque, along with the £12.50 stop cheque fee that shouldn't have 
been charged. 
Taking everything into consideration, I think the £200 Barclays paid Mr and Mrs H, fairly 
compensates them for the distress and inconvenience caused and the delay in Barclays 
settling the complaint.
My final decision
Im satisfied the compensation paid by Barclays puts Mr and Mrs H in the position theyd be 
in if the problem had never happened. So, I won't be asking it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman