DRN-1795738
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Next Risk Solutions Limited. He isnt happy that it cancelled his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S took out his car insurance policy with Next Risk in September 2019. At that point in 
time he completed a number of checks including verification of his driving licence as his 
policy was set up. Next Risk asked Mr S for a few further details at a later stage including 
confirmation of his no claims discount, proof of address for the credit provider and Next Risk 
went on to ask him to update his driving licence as it wasnt registered at the risk address.
As Mr S didnt provide all the details Next Risk required (specifically he didnt provide an 
updated copy of his driving licence) it went on to cancel the policy. Mr S wasnt happy about 
this as he felt hed cooperated and provided the necessary details. He was told during a 
telephone call after hed taken the policy out that Next Risk had everything it needed, and he 
told them he was going on holiday. So he didnt get any of its further communications 
threatening cancellation. As Mr S was unhappy about this he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. He agreed Mr S had 
been told that Next Risk had everything it required and thought the cancellation was unfair. 
He asked it to only charge time on risk, to pay 8% simple interest on anything it owed Mr S 
and to provide him with a letter explaining that the cancellation wasnt his fault.
As Next Risk didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mr S took out his insurance policy during a call with Next Risk. At that point in time it verified 
his licence details with him. I know Next Risk feels that it asked Mr S for more information 
about this when it sent out the policy documentation, but I havent seen any evidence to 
support this. So, I can understand Mr Ss confusion when he was asked about his driving 
licence again. He hadnt been asked before and he provided all his details in the initial call 
when the policy was set up. 
But what appears to have happened is that Mr S has been given incorrect information and 
he has been misled. This is because Next Risk was trying to verify his address for his driving 
licence on the one hand and finalising his credit on the other. Had Next Risk been clear 
about exactly what it needed during its telephone call with Mr S Im satisfied that the policy 
wouldnt have been cancelled or Mr S wouldve cancelled the policy himself. I say this as 
Mr S discussed cancellation with Next Risk at one stage as he felt that he was continually 
getting confusing requests for information, and I can understand this. 
Ive listened to the calls and I dont think Next Risk dealt with Mr S very well and its customer 
service was poor. It didnt call Mr S back when it said it would; it told him that it had 
everything it needed for his policy when it didnt; it didnt listen to Mr S or make it clear what 
he needed to do; and so I can understand why he was confused. 
Next Risk clearly told Mr S he didnt need to do anything else and that he wouldnt be 
chased for any further information in one of the early calls. And Mr S clearly told them he 
was going away on holiday (so he wouldnt have got its letters threatening cancellation) and 
that it would take four or five weeks to get his licence updated as he needed to fill in forms 
and his address was unusual.
So, although I can understand why Next Risk wanted the information it requested I think it 
confused Mr S about what it needed and told him, before he went on holiday, that it had 
everything it needed. So I dont think the cancellation of his policy is fair. And it shouldve 
addressed its own mistakes when Mr S complained about this. So it is only fair that Mr S is 
put back into the position he shouldve been but for Next Risks errors. And I think Mr S 
should be paid £100 compensation for the clear stress and inconvenience this has caused 
and for the poor service he received.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Next Risk 
Solutions Limited to only charge Mr S for his time on cover and remove any cancellation or 
admin fees. It should provide a letter explaining the cancellation was caused by its error and 
ask the insurer to remove any cancellation markers if they were applied. Plus, it should pay 
£100 compensation to Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman