DRN-2780595
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about their mortgage with HSBC UK Bank Plc. They say it withdrew 
new interest rates very quickly and delayed in offering them advice.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have a mortgage with HSBC. In 2020, their fixed rate was coming to an end. 
HSBC wrote to them at the beginning of September to tell them their rate was ending soon, 
and the letter also set out what new rates might be available to them.
Mr and Mrs K didnt want to choose a new rate for themselves online. They had various 
questions, so decided to ring HSBC and ask for some advice. They rang HSBC on 
6 September 2020, the date they received the letter. They were told that the rates set out in 
the letter (dated 1 September) were no longer available. They were told that they could 
select rates themselves online, but if they wanted to speak to a mortgage adviser first, an 
appointment would not be available for another month.
Mr and Mrs K in fact managed to secure an appointment with an adviser on 22 September. 
But by then, they say HSBC had changed its rates again  the only rates now available were 
higher than those they had been quoted both in the letter and on the phone on 6 September.
Mr and Mrs K complained. They said HSBC should have written to them sooner, so they had 
enough time to book an advice appointment and complete an application before their old 
rate expired. And they said they wanted HSBC to honour the rates it had set out in the letter 
but which were no longer available by the time they received the letter. They said HSBC 
should guarantee rates for a reasonable period so customers could make an informed 
choice. They said that HSBCs process forced customers to take rates immediately online 
rather than being able to take important decisions with proper advice and time to consider. 
They thought this was not an ethical business practice.
HSBC said that the rates set out in the letter were correct at the time of writing, but they 
were not guaranteed and could change at any time. The letter made that clear. It said that it 
made it clear to Mr and Mrs K when their old rate would expire at the time they took it out, so 
they could have booked an appointment sooner if theyd wanted to. But it didnt contact 
customers any earlier, because it didnt allow them to book a new rate more than 90 days 
before an old one expired.
Mr and Mrs K took a new fixed rate which ran straight on from the old one. But they also 
complained to HSBC, and then to us. Our investigator did not think the complaint should be 
upheld. So Mr and Mrs K asked for it to be looked at by an ombudsman. They wanted HSBC 
to pay them £1,600 compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K took out their previous rate in 2018. It expired on 30 November 2020. This 
date was set out in the mortgage offer HSBC gave Mr and Mrs K in 2018.
HSBC wrote to Mr and Mrs K to remind them of the expiry of their fixed rate on 1 September 
2020  therefore with three months left to go. Mr and Mrs K received this letter on 6 
September 2020.
I think this was reasonable notice. It wouldnt have been possible for Mr and Mrs K to book a 
new rate with HSBC any sooner, since it doesnt allow this more than 90 days before a rate 
ends. And though it was just over two weeks after they rang HSBC before they were able to 
secure an appointment with an adviser, the appointment was still over two months before the 
old rate expired. 
Im therefore satisfied that HSBC gave Mr and Mrs K reasonable notice of their rate expiring, 
in good time for them to explore their options  whether online, seeking advice or indeed 
moving to another lender. 
And if Mr and Mrs K felt they needed more time, it was clear to them in 2018 when their rate 
would expire, so they could have diarised to consider their options at whatever point they felt 
appropriate for them. While I understand that Mr and Mrs K wanted HSBC to write to them 
sooner, I think doing so with three months left to go is not unfair.
The 1 September 2020 letter set out when their existing rate would end. It set out their 
options, including applying online or calling to request advice.
The letter also said:
Weve enclosed a list of the rate deals currently available for your estimated LTV 
[loan to value]
These are correct as of 1 September 2020  but they can change at any time
To see the most up to date rate deals and products available for all LTVs, please visit 
[HSBCs website]
This is the exact same process as Mr and Mrs K had been through in 2018. Their previous 
rate expired on 31 October 2018, and HSBC wrote to them on 2 August 2018  three 
months before. And in that letter it said 
Weve enclosed the existing customer mortgage interest rates currently available for 
your LTV. Our rates and products change from time to time.
So while Mr and Mrs K think that HSBC has changed its process  to their detriment  
between 2018 and 2020, Im satisfied thats not the case. On both occasions it wrote to them 
when there was three months left on their existing rate. And on both occasions it gave them 
a list of rates available at date of writing  but warned they were subject to change.
I think that was reasonable. The process for setting interest rates is complex, but in 
summary involves a lender arranging funding of its own at a particular price, and then 
offering products to its customers backed by that funding. Lenders can change and withdraw 
interest offers at any time  for example, when that particular funding line has been used up, 
when other costs which impact the price reduce or increase, or where market conditions 
change.
Theres no requirement for HSBC to guarantee that particular rates will be available for a particular time. When it wrote to Mr and Mrs K, the list of rates was accurate. By the time 
they received the letter, the list was out of date. But as it told them, the rates were not 
guaranteed and could change any time. Sometimes  as in this case  when rates are 
withdrawn the new ones are slightly higher; at other times, they are slightly lower. Thats 
simply a function of how the mortgage market works. 
The rate Mr and Mrs K selected was slightly higher than the ones set out in the letter. Thats 
unfortunate  but its not unfair, just as it wouldnt be fair for HSBC to hold them to an earlier 
rate list if rates had gone down rather than up.
Finally, I dont think it was unreasonable that Mr and Mrs K had to wait just over two weeks 
for an appointment with an adviser. Mortgage advice takes time, and needs qualified 
advisers. Therefore its generally necessary to make an appointment. A two week wait is not 
unreasonable  particularly in the challenging circumstances applicable in 2020, not just to 
HSBC but to everyone.
Im not persuaded that HSBC has done anything wrong or acted unfairly in this case. And 
Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs K have suffered any loss. They knew from 2018 when 
their rate would end; they got a reminder letter in good time; they were able to take advice as 
was their preference; and they selected a rate that was implemented to run straight on from 
the old one. I dont think theres any basis on which I could fairly ask HSBC to pay them 
£1,600. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman