DRN-3702019
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) provided 
misleading information about how Mr R could register a Power of Attorney on their joint bank 
account for their son. 
What happened
Mr R says he visited a local branch of Halifax in February 2022 to register a Power of 
Attorney (POA) for his son to operate his joint bank account held with his wife. Mr R says he 
brought with him all the necessary documentation and certification, but the branch staff 
member told him the only way the POA could be set up would be for the son to visit the 
branch with identification. Mr R says his son works during the week and that would be 
difficult, so he lodged a complaint with Halifax. 
Mr R says when Halifax acknowledged his complaint it informed him of a simpler solution 
which was for his son to complete the process over the telephone. Mr R says the branch 
staff should have told him that and this represents bad practice by Halifax, and it should 
provide a handout at its branches to inform potential customers of the two methods to 
register a POA. 
Halifax says its member of staff at the branch correctly described the branch procedures for 
registering a POA to Mr R. Halifax says when Mr R complained a few days later it provided 
him with an alternative way of registering a POA, by his son calling its POA help line and 
registering it this way. Halifax didnt feel it had done anything wrong. 
Mrs R and Mr R werent happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this 
service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says the member of staff had correctly informed Mr R of the in-branch 
procedures for registering a POA and while it could have told Mr R of the alternative 
procedure over the telephone, that mistake wouldnt warrant any compensation, given this 
was explained to Mr R a few days after he complained.
Mrs R and Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr R to have discovered there was a 
simpler way for his son to be registered as a POA on his joint bank account with Halifax, 
rather than booking a branch appointment as he was told was necessary before, when 
visiting his local branch. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Halifax acted unreasonably when it gave the 
information it did to Mr R when he visited his local branch. 
I can see when Mr R visited the branch in February 2022 he was provided with the correct 
information regarding the in-branch process for setting up a POA on his joint bank account 
for his son. I agree perhaps it would have been helpful if the branch member of staff had 
checked the alternative method for registering POAs over the telephone, but here because 
Mr R had visited the branch in all likelihood the member of staff was simply considering the 
in-branch process. 
So, although I agree that could have been handled better at the time, that doesnt mean I 
can tell Halifax it must now change its process or procedures when dealing with customers 
wishing to set up a POA. Whats important here is within a few days of Mr R complaining 
about this, he was given an alternative solution. I cant say I could expect much more from 
Halifax in the circumstances. 
Its worth saying the details of Halifaxs process for registering POAs over the telephone is 
also available on its website for all potential applicants. While Mr R may not agree I am 
satisfied that is acceptable and its not for me to tell Halifax it should also provide handouts 
at it branches in addition to this, as Mr R suggests.   
While Mrs R and Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Halifax here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman