DRN-3185773
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has unfairly 
declined his claim. 
What happened
Mr S has a group income protection policy through his employer, underwritten by L&G. This 
would pay a benefit if Mr S was unable to work due to illness or injury after a deferred 
(waiting) period of 26 weeks. 
In April 2019, Mr S was unable to work due to problems with his hip and back and was off 
work until July 2020 after which he returned to work on a gradual, phased return. 
Mr S made a claim but L&G declined it. Mr S feels he was discriminated against due to his 
age and disability. And he feels the medical assessment report which was shared with his 
employer was defamatory. 
Mr S made a complaint to L&G but it maintained its decline and so Mr S referred his 
complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think L&G had 
done anything wrong as there was insufficient medical evidence to show Mr S was 
incapacitated. Mr S disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
His GP and physiotherapists all said he was unable to work.
If L&G required further evidence, it should have asked Mr S to provide it.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done, so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy defines incapacity as follows:
Means the insured member is incapacitated by an illness or injury so that he is 
unable to undertake all occupations which we consider appropriate to his experience, 
training or education.
L&G declined Mr S claim as it didnt think Ms S met the above definition of incapacity. Ive 
seen the following evidence it relied on.
Key evidence 
In September 2019 L&G asked Mr S GP for further evidence and confirmation of a 
diagnosis and symptoms and whether he supported a gradual return to work. The GP 
responded in October 2019 and confirmed he supported a structured rehabilitation 
programme to facilitate a return to work but that Mr S was using a crutch at present
In November 2019, L&G arranged a functional capacity assessment (FCA) for Mr S. 
The assessor concluded that Mr S own reporting of limited sitting tolerance was 
preventing a return to work. She said best practice guideline for such diagnoses was 
to encourage activity. She concluded a workstation assessment with a clinician with 
appropriate experience was important so that Mr S could receive individual advice 
about the best way to use his workstation. She talked about an ergonomic 
perspective and a sit to stand desk so that Mr S could alter his posture regularly 
during the working day. She recommended 50% of normal working hours to begin 
with, increasing to full hours over a four-week period. 
In December 2019, L&G declined the claim and said Mr S didnt meet the definition of 
incapacity. 
In December 2019 Mr S received a diagnosis of disc protrusion with s1 nerve root 
impingement and the plan was a nerve root injection. The Orthopaedic and trauma 
specialist confirmed the injection should reduce inflammation but if this failed, 
surgical management would be considered. The specialist advised Mr S to continue 
his normal activities and mobilise. 
In early January 2020, Mr S GP confirmed Mr S had been investigated for abdominal 
and right hip pain which was initially thought to be due to a labral tear. The underlying 
issues were right s1 nerve root compression with L5/S1 disc protrusion. The GP said 
Mr S would be unable to perform sedentary work at this point.
In January 2020, Mr S chiropractor wrote a letter to confirm he had been treating Mr 
S since October 2019. He said although Mr S symptoms had improved, the disc 
issue hadnt fully resolved. He said prolonged sitting on a disc bulge would 
exacerbate pain levels. 
Later in January 2020, a letter from a musculoskeletal physiotherapist confirms Mr S 
was referred to physiotherapy a year ago. He had made some changes and his 
symptoms were slowly improving. But his symptoms re-occurred with any prolonged 
activity and so he would benefit from further therapy before a gradual return to work 
could be considered. 
In June 2020, L&G responded to Mr S appeal and maintained its decline on the 
basis that Mr S condition hadnt deteriorated and the FCA assessor had advised a 
return to work was advisable based on adjustments being made. 
L&G confirmed the additional evidence post January 2020 had been referred to the 
FCA assessor and she confirmed that returning to an office-based role wouldnt be 
expected to cause harm or damage. And the guidance given about workstation set 
up and practices would allow Mr S to adopt the most suitable postures and change 
his position regularly to manage symptoms. And so she didnt think the additional 
evidence affected her conclusions.Having considered all of the above evidence as a whole, I dont think L&G unfairly declined 
Mr S claim. It clearly reviewed the additional evidence Mr S sent to it with his appeal and Im 
satisfied it fully considered whether Mr S met the definition of incapacity. Although the 
evidence Mr S has provided suggests he shouldnt sit for too long and that prolonged activity 
would exacerbate his symptoms, Im persuaded by the conclusions in the FCA. The FCA 
concluded Mr S should seek advice from a clinician regarding his workstation and she 
doesnt suggest that Mr S should sit for prolonged periods. So I dont think the additional 
evidence post January 2020 clearly contradicts what the FCA assessor has suggested. In 
addition, this is in line with the specialists advice in December 2019 who diagnosed Mr S 
with the disc protrusion. The specialist advised Mr S to continue normal activities and 
mobilise. 
Overall, whilst I dont doubt that Mr S has been through a very difficult period, the evidence 
suggests that a phased return could have been attempted before the end of the deferred 
period. And that a return to work with adjustments was advised and recommended. And so 
on that basis, Mr S doesnt meet the definition of incapacity as set out in terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
Mr S says the medical report shared with his employer was defamatory. Having considered 
the report, I cant say L&G can be held responsible for the conclusions in the report but it is 
entitled to rely on independent evidence. In addition, the policy is a group income protection 
policy where Mr S employer is the policy holder and so L&G would need to report to Mr S 
employer. As Mr S agreed for his medical evidence to be shared with his employer in his 
claim and consent form, I dont think L&G has done anything wrong here.
Mr S has also sent in a detailed letter about why he disagreed with the FCA. But this isnt 
something L&G can be responsible for except to send any questions to the assessor. I would 
expect it to seek clarification and send any further new and additional medical evidence to 
the assessor for comments, which Ive seen that it did do.Mr S says L&G should have asked Mr S for further information before declining the claim. 
Having considered the information as set out above, Im satisfied that L&G requested the 
relevant medical evidence at the appropriate times. The onus is on Mr S to prove his claim 
and following the decline of the claim, Mr S was able to appeal and provide further medical 
evidence. So Im satisfied Mr S had an opportunity to challenge L&Gs decision and provide 
further medical evidence.
Mr S says he has provided clear medical evidence and opinions which confirm he cannot 
work. But L&G has to consider whether the medical evidence is persuasive based on a clear 
and objective explanation about why Mr S would be unable to attempt a return to work. As 
an FCA tests functional ability through a variety of tests, Mr S would need to provide clear 
evidence contradicting the findings of the FCA from a suitable medical expert explaining why 
it disagreed and on what basis. The evidence from the GP doesnt confirm whether any 
testing was carried out and the other evidence doesnt specifically contradict or suggest why 
the recommendations in the FCA would be unsuitable for Mr S.
Although Mr S received a diagnosis, this is not enough to show that he is incapacitated. The 
specialist who confirmed the diagnosis and the FCA assessor confirmed Mr S should remain 
active. And so the opinion of the GP and physiotherapists that Mr S is unable to perform 
sedentary work, without any reference to guidelines or best practice, doesnt disprove the 
conclusions of the FCA and the recommendation to remain active.
Mr S has also raised other concerns. He feels that L&G discriminated against him due to his 
age and medical condition  which he says amounts to a disability. 
Its not the role of this service to make a decision on whether the actions of a business 
amount to discrimination  or whether it has breached the Equality Act 2010. Thats an issue 
for the Courts. But I can take the Equality Act into account, where relevant, when 
considering whether a business has acted fairly and reasonably in a particular case. 
In this case, Im not persuaded that L&G has acted unfairly or unreasonably. Thats because, 
for the reasons set out in this decision, Im satisfied L&G has applied the terms and 
conditions of the policy fairly  by arranging an FCA and reviewing all of the relevant 
evidence including the further evidence supplied by Mr S. And I dont think the nature of Mr 
S medical condition means that L&G should have reasonably done anything differently in 
this case including the way in which it assessed the claim. Nor do I think his age played any 
part in the decision to decline the claim or the way his claim was handled.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman