DRN-4193856
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) handled 
a claim he made on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M contacted UKI to make a claim on his insurance for damage in 2022. When he told UKI 
the address of his property, UKI said this wasnt covered by its insurance. It said when it had 
originally set up Mr Ms policy, that address had been provided. But in 2021, the risk address 
had been changed to another property. As Mr M didnt have insurance for the property 
where the damage had happened, it wouldnt cover a claim. 
Mr M complained to UKI, he said the risk address had been changed without his knowledge, 
and he was now uninsured as a result.
UKI said it was contacted by telephone to change the address, but the caller didnt pass its 
security checks. So the caller was advised to change the risk address online. And this 
happened on the same day. It didnt think it had made any errors. Unhappy with that 
response Mr M brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt ask UKI to do anything differently. He said there wasnt any evidence 
to show UKI had treated Mr M unfairly in allowing the change of address or declining the 
claim. 
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review it. He said UKI was still taking a premium for him 
for the insurance even though his property wasnt insured. As Mr M didnt agree, the matter 
has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has said UKI are still taking money for his insurance premiums even though his 
property isnt insured. But this isnt something I can consider as part of this complaint, as a 
complaint would first need to be raised with UKI. This complaint will address whether UKI 
has fairly declined his claim for damage on the basis there is no policy covering his property.
UKI has said it was contacted by telephone in 2021. The caller said theyd checked their 
documents and didnt recognise the address insured. Ive listened to a copy of this call 
recording. The caller was asked a number of security questions, but didnt answer enough 
correctly to pass UKIs security checks. UKI said it wouldnt be able to discuss the policy or 
make changes with the caller. It advised if the caller wanted to change the address they can 
do so using their online account. 
Mr M says this shows it wasnt him and someone tried to fraudulently access his account. 
And whilst I accept this might be the case, UKI followed its verification process here and 
didnt allow any changes to be made. So I cant say it allowed an unauthorised person to 
change the address.
I can see that on the same say as the call noted above, the online account, using Mr Ms 
email address, was accessed. And this was used to change the risk address. UKI has said 
this email address had been linked to Mr Ms account since the policy was taken out. 
Having considered everything, I dont think UKI has acted unreasonably in allowing this 
change to be made. And after that point, renewal documents were sent to this email 
address, as they had been in the previous year of 2020. So I dont think UKI needed to do 
anymore to highlight the changes to Mr M. I think it was reasonable for it to send the 
information to the email address noted on the policy. 
I appreciate Mr Ms concern here. He says hes never lived in the area that the risk address 
was changed to. However it isnt my role to decide who changed the information on the 
policy. My role is to look at whether UKI has treated him fairly in declining his claim for 
damage on the basis that the property in question wasnt insured. Having considered 
everything, Im satisfied his property [which suffered damage] wasnt insured at the time of 
loss. And Im also satisfied on balance that UKI did enough to stop the policy being changed 
by an unauthorised person. So it follows UKI doesnt need to consider his claim for damage.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to 
do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman