DRN-2401124
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have 
unfairly increased the cost of their pet insurance policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy was taken out in Mrs S name so I will only be referring to her in this decision. 
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the 
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually wont cover any 
medical conditions the pet had or had received treatment for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed. So ongoing or recurring medical conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies, like the one Mrs S took out, will continue to cover any 
medical conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year. 
These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will 
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear to Mrs S. It has accepted 
the information it gave Mrs S about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has now offered to pay her £500 compensation for the trouble and upset shes been 
caused as a result of this. 
Mrs S hasnt accepted the offer and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances of Mrs S 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Its important to be clear that businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge for the 
insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance 
should cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should operate  
and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mrs S policy is too high, she should have 
been charged less for the policy or that she should be charged less in the future.
While Mrs Ss premium has seen a significant increase, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated her differently to how they would have treated any other 
policyholder in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to charge her a lower premium going 
forwards.
I understand Mrs S will be disappointed with this as this was the outcome she had hoped for. 
I recognise that the situation has caused her upset. Due to the medical conditions her dog 
now has, she is unlikely to find cover for this elsewhere. And I recognise the likely continuing 
increases in the premium in future years means she may not be able to afford to continue 
with the policy.
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mrs S the information she needed to understand 
she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something has gone 
wrong, Ill look at whats likely to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out. It is not my role to punish RSA. 
Mrs S chose to take out pet insurance, so she wanted some type of cover for her pet. And 
shes told us that she chose to take out a lifetime policy as she wanted the greater level of 
cover it provided. If Mrs S hadnt taken a lifetime policy, she wouldve either had no cover at 
all, and would have had to pay for all her pets treatment herself, or a reduced level of cover, 
where she would still have found herself in a situation where her pets conditions were no 
longer covered. So I think its likely she would still have gone ahead with the lifetime policy, 
even if shed known the premium could increase significantly in the future. 
I recognise that its possible Mrs S may have gone with a different provider offering a similar 
policy. But its impossible to know what policy Mrs S would have ended up with  it might 
have been cheaper, but it might also have been more expensive. I think its unlikely better 
information about the possible future costs of the policy would have resulted in Mrs S paying 
a significantly lower amount, as providers that offer this type of insurance tend operate in a 
similar way - taking the same sort of factors into account when the premiums are calculated 
at renewal.
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Mrs S wasnt so 
surprised and upset when the cost increased significantly  instead this would have been 
something she was expecting to happen. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises that better information about the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided some of the trouble and upset Mrs S has 
experienced. And I think it fairly compensates Mrs S.
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs offer to pay Mrs S £500 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance should pay Mrs S £500. I dont require it to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman