DRN-2365092
The complaint
Mr B complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly allowed him to open a credit card 
account that was unaffordable and then increased his credit limit.
What happened
Mr B says he opened the credit card account in 2015 and had a default registered on his 
credit file and a County Court Judgement (CCJ). He says the credit limit was increased up to 
£3,000 and says the lending was unaffordable and irresponsible. Mr B would like the 
balance he owes reduced and for Vanquis to review its lending policy. He also says he was 
using payday lending to repay the credit card debt.
Vanquis says it credit scored the application and the later credit limit increases. It says Mr B 
told it he had an income of over £20,000 a year and it did consider the default which was 
registered some time before the application and the CCJ. It also says the original credit limit 
was modest at £250 and it considered how Mr B managed his account before offering the 
credit limit increases which he could have rejected. Vanquis says Mr B told it about financial 
difficulties in 2019 some time after the last increase and has tried to help him.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr B had approximate disposable income at the time of the application of over £400 
and managed his account appropriately until 2019. The investigator didnt think Vanquis 
could have known how Mr B was funding the repayments and thought its checks 
appropriate. The investigator also thought Mr B could have rejected the increases and 
Vanquis was not aware of the financial difficulties until about July 2019 when Mr B told it 
about them.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and says he had other complaints about unaffordable loans 
upheld and also says Vanquis ought to have known about his payday lending.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Vanquis hasnt made a mistake and that 
its lending was not unaffordable or irresponsible. I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by 
my decision and I make clear the we look at each complaint individually. I also make clear 
that lenders should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks when lending, but those 
checks will vary depending on the circumstances of the lending and for example the type of 
credit and the amount. This is a complaint not about a loan but about the decision to allow 
Mr B a credit card and to allow the potential for further borrowing by increasing the credit 
card limit. 
Im satisfied that Vanquis carried out appropriate and proportionate checks on Mr Bs initial 
credit card application. I can see that Mr B was in full time employment and earned over 
£20,000 a year. I can also see that Vanquis considered both the default and the CCJ and 
concluded that Mr B had over £400 disposable income every month. I think both the CCJ 
and in particular the default were registered on Mr Bs credit file some time before this credit 
card application in 2015. Im satisfied the credit limit offered to Mr B was relatively low at 
£250 and that appropriate credit checks were carried out.
I have looked at Mr Bs credit card statements and Vanquiss records and Im satisfied Mr B 
managed his account appropriately by making required payments. I think those payments 
were normally more than the minimum required payment. So, I dont think Vanquis acted 
irresponsibly by offering Mr B the credit limit increases and Im satisfied that it carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks on each of them. I also think Mr B could have rejected 
the increases if he wished. And Im satisfied that Mr B continued to manage his account 
appropriately for some considerable time after the last credit limit increase which I think also 
provides evidence that at the time the increases were affordable.
I can see that Mr B experienced financial difficulty in 2019 and he told Vanquis that and that 
he had a reduction in his salary. I can also see that Mr B started using short term lending 
more frequently and also applied for other types of loans. I accept in those circumstances, 
lenders ought to treat borrowers positively and sympathetically and, although Mr Bs 
complaint is not about such matters, Im satisfied Vanquis has acted in such a way here. I 
can see that it agreed a short-term plan and refunded interest as well as reducing interest 
rates.
Overall, I think that Mr B experienced financial difficulty some time after the last credit limit 
increase. I dont think Vanquis could have known how Mr B was funding his credit card 
payments and think that it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks when offering 
the increases and when it opened the account. For those reasons I cant fairly order Vanquis 
to reduce Mr Bs debt as he would like, and I make clear that we are not its regulator, and so 
cant order it to change its lending practice.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman