DRN-3203761
The complaint
Mr H has complained Healthcare Finance Limited wont deal with a breach of contract after 
taking out a fixed-sum loan with them.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr H took out a fixed-sum loan for £1,299. This was to enable his 
daughter, Miss H, to have her teeth straightened.
Miss H started treatment but soon became unhappy. She wasnt able to get the support she 
wanted and didnt feel the treatment was providing her with the effect shed been expecting. 
She also was unable to get the final treatment and aftercare as the supplier went into 
administration.
Mr H was unable to get Healthcare Finance to sort out the breach of contract. He brought a 
complaint to the ombudsman service. This was a claim Mr H had made under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Our investigator told Mr H we were unable to assist as there was no debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship as required under section 75.
Mr H asked to have his complaint reviewed further. An ombudsman has been asked to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 allows a customer to submit a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier to their credit provider. This applies when 
customers use certain types of credit to buy goods or services. In this case Mr H took out a 
fixed-sum loan to pay for his daughters teeth-straightening treatment.
However one key requirement to allow consideration of a section 75 claim is that there 
needs to be an effective relationship between the supplier of the goods and the person who 
had the relationship with the creditor. This is often referred to as the debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship. 
In this case the contract is between the supplier  now in administration  and Miss H for her 
own teeth- straightening treatment. Theres no dispute that shes the contracting party here. 
However she is not the debtor as thats Mr H. This means that Miss H has no relationship 
with Healthcare Finance who funded the treatment.
I should clarify that in no way is this a comment on whether a breach of contract exists or 
not. It means that I cant consider the breach of contract issue which arises here. 
Unfortunately under the legislation which exists around section 75 I have no leeway here to 
ask Healthcare Finance to do anything further.
I apologise if our service has not been clear to Mr H that he is the correct complainant, and 
not his daughter, as he took out the fixed-sum loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Hs complaint against 
Healthcare Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman