DRN-3345597
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank extended the 
term of a repayment plan for her credit card. 
What happened
Mrs M has a credit card with Tesco Bank and in September 2020 it wrote to her about the 
outstanding balance. Tesco Banks letter said Mrs M could opt to make set repayments and 
gave examples of the amounts required and number of months it could take to repay the 
balance. Mrs M returned the form and requested monthly payments of £100. 
On 2 October 2020 Tesco Bank confirmed a repayment plan of £100 for 29 months by letter. 
At the time, Mrs M owed around £3,000. Tesco Bank later reviewed the repayment plan and 
tried to contact Mrs M again in January 2021 to discuss it. Tesco Bank says the term of the 
repayment plan was too short to ensure Mrs Ms balance would be repaid at the end. 
Mrs M complained to Tesco Bank and it sent her a final response. Tesco Bank said an error 
had been made when setting up the plan and paid Mrs M £100 to apologise. Tesco Bank 
confirmed the term of the plan had been increased to 45 months to ensure the balance was 
repaid. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Ms complaint but didnt ask Tesco Bank to take 
further action. The investigator thought Tesco Bank had dealt with Mrs Ms complaint fairly. 
Mrs M asked to appeal, so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has made a number of points when bringing their complaint. Ive considered and read 
everything that all parties have said and sent us. If I havent directly mentioned something 
thats happened or responded to each point raised it isnt because I havent considered it. I 
have. In line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be focusing on the key 
issues of this complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable. An approach our rules allow 
me to take. Id like to ensure all parties no discourtesy is intended by this approach. 
I can understand why Mrs M is upset at Tesco Banks mistake. And I agree it made a 
mistake when it confirmed the term of the repayment plan in October 2020. Tesco Bank 
accepts it incorrectly confirmed to Mrs M that a repayment plan of £100 for 29 months would 
be sufficient to repay her balance. But Im satisfied that was a genuine mistake. At the time, 
Mrs Ms outstanding balance exceeded the £2,900 total payments (29 x £100) due under the 
repayment plan. And that doesnt take into account the impact of interest on the balance 
during the plan. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M but I wouldnt expect either party to be bound by a genuine 
mistake. And, as Ive said, Im satisfied thats what happened here. Our role is to try and put 
the consumer back into the correct position, had no error been made. In this case, the error 
was Tesco Bank notifying Mrs M she could have a repayment plan for 29 months when it 
shouldve been longer. So to put Mrs M back into the correct position, she shouldve been 
told a longer repayment plan was needed in October 2020. 
Tesco Bank confirmed the correct position in its letter dated 7 January 2021 and Im satisfied 
thats reasonable. I can see Tesco Bank sent a follow up letter around two weeks later that 
gave the previous repayment plan duration. But I think that reflects that the updated 
repayment plan was due to begin from the February 2021 statement date. 
Tesco Bank accepts it made a mistake, apologised to Mrs M and paid her £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Thats very much in line with what I wouldve told Tesco 
Bank to pay had no offer been made. In my view, Tesco Bank dealt with Mrs Ms complaint 
fairly. As Im satisfied Tesco Bank dealt with Mrs Ms complaint fairly, Im not telling it to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint because Tesco Bank has already paid a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman