DRN-4305725
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Clydesdale Bank PLC, trading as Virgin Money (Clydesdale), 
irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Mrs S opened a credit card account with Clydesdale in November 2020 with an initial credit 
limit of £4,300. Her credit limit was never increased.
  
Mrs S says that Clydesdale acted irresponsibly by providing her with the credit card. She 
says if Clydesdale had done adequate checks on her situation it would have seen that she 
wouldnt be able to repay his balance in a reasonable length of time. She said that she was 
over-indebted elsewhere and had a low income.
Clydesdale said it didnt lend irresponsibly to Mrs S and that it did all the necessary checks 
before it lent to Mrs S.
Our investigator thought that Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. Following our 
investigators view Clydesdale initially agreed to refund the interest and charges on Mrs Ss 
account but it disagreed about amending her credit file if by refunding the interest and 
charges Mrs Ss balance would be cleared in full.
 
Our investigator explained to Clydesdale the rationale behind the correction. Clydesdale still 
didnt agree  and then it retracted its offer to repay the interest and charges and asked for 
an ombudsmans final decision. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
When I reviewed the complaint, I didnt think it should be upheld. I asked both parties for 
comments on my provisional decision. Clydesdale didnt respond. Mrs S provided further 
information about her circumstances at the time, including new evidence, which I have now 
considered.
Having taken this new information into account I decided that Mrs Ss complaint should be 
upheld. Again, I wrote to both parties to explain this and seek their further comments. Mrs S 
agreed with my new decision; Clydesdale didnt respond. For this reason I see no reason to 
change my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mrs Ss complaint.
Having done so, I have decided Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. I will explain why.
Clydesdale needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs S 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mrs Ss income and expenditure. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Clydesdale should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs S. These factors include 
things like understanding Mrs Ss income, the total amount Mrs S borrowed, and the length 
of time Mrs S had been indebted.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
What all of this means is that a less detailed affordability assessment, without the need for 
verification, is far more likely to be fair, reasonable and proportionate where the amount to 
be repaid is relatively small, the consumers financial situation is stable, and they will be 
indebted for a relatively short period.
Clydesdale provided a copy of what it saw when it completed checks on Mrs Ss application. 
Mrs S declared a gross annual income of £10,000 and a household income of £45,000. She 
also stated that she didnt pay any contributions to rent or a mortgage. Clydesdales own 
searches revealed that Mrs S was jointly responsible for a mortgage payment of £1,035 a 
month and that she had outstanding unsecured borrowing of £9,111. It noted that her 
repayments on other revolving credit (that is, credit card and shopping accounts) was around 
£7 a month. Her repayments on non-revolving credit were around £136 a month.
It seems that Clydesdale relied on the household income to make its lending decision, rather 
than just Mrs Ss income. Clydesdale has not suggested otherwise since my two provisional 
decisions. On this basis, Clydesdale considered that a limit of £4,300 represented only 10% 
of Mrs Ss household income and was therefore likely to be affordable for her. It described 
the credit limit as modest. If Mrs S had repaid 3% of her outstanding balance each month (if 
she borrowed to her credit card limit) she would have needed to pay £129. 
However, while Mrs S appears to have had a joint mortgage I dont think it was reasonable 
for Clydesdale to take the household income into account. Clydesdale didnt have any 
understanding of the financial circumstances of Mrs Ss joint mortgage holder or of the 
household costs and who was responsible for them. Mrs Ss credit file does not show a joint 
bank account. So, I think it needed to rely on Mrs Ss income alone when it assessed 
whether she could afford the repayments. 
There are two reasons I think Clydesdale ought not to have relied solely on the information 
from its credit checks. First, Mrs S declared that she had no mortgage costs and yet 
Clydesdales checks showed that she had a joint mortgage, so there was doubt about the 
answers Mrs S had provided in her application. Second, Mrs Ss outstanding borrowing in 
her own name was close to a years salary. The addition of a further £4,300 credit facility to 
this was significant. On this basis, I think Clydesdale ought to have verified Mrs Ss income 
and expenditure.
Mrs S explained that she was responsible for paying for food, her phone and repaying a loan 
to her mother at around £400 to £500 a month. I havent seen evidence of how much that 
loan had originally been for or how long Mrs S was expecting to continue repaying it. Mrs S 
has now explained that there is currently £56,000 outstanding.  Mrs Ss net pay each month was around £833 and she was repaying other borrowing at around £143 a month. If Mrs S 
used all her new credit and repaid it at 3% a month this would have been an additional cost 
of £129 a month. On this basis our investigator concluded Mrs S would have had little or no 
disposable income each month.
I asked for Mrs S to provide her bank statements so I could understand what Clydesdale 
ought to have seen if it completed the checks I consider would have been reasonable and 
proportionate. These showed that Mrs Ss monthly income was correct, but that she was 
paying her mother back at only £300 a month. She made payments of about £150 for food 
over the same period  so about £50 a month. She paid an average of £20 a month towards 
a shopping account. I couldnt identify any other essential expenditure and it seemed 
payments towards her other non-revolving credit were not made from this account and nor 
did she have any mortgage expenses. This means that Mrs Ss committed expenditure was 
in the region of £370 a month, or £510 if I take into account all her payments towards 
existing credit (including the payments for her non-revolving credit which were not made 
from this account), excluding her joint mortgage which it appears her husband paid. This 
means that I thought the additional payment of up to £129 a month would have been 
affordable for Mrs S, leaving her with a disposable income each month of nearly £200. 
When I made my first provisional decision I concluded that Clydesdale didnt do reasonable 
and proportionate checks when it lent to Mrs S but I didnt think if it had done so that it would 
have made a difference to its decision to lend to Mrs S. This meant that I didnt intend to 
uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
However, following my first provisional decision Mrs S provided more information. She 
submitted her full bank statements. Previously she had only submitted parts of her bank 
statements which contained what she thought held the relevant information. The additional 
pages (which, now looking at the numbering of each page, I am satisfied contains all the 
information about her income and expenditure) now includes evidence of all of her regular 
expenses, such as utilities, insurances, groceries, childcare and TV licence  the items that 
were missing from the information she originally supplied. 
The new statements show she was consistently overdrawn in this account, almost never 
being in credit. They showed transfers to and from another account and I queried this in 
case that account belonged to someone else or contained evidence of further income. Mrs S 
provided those statements too. They were for a savings account and contained only 
transactions to and from her additional account. Mrs S explained she used this to try to 
ensure she kept some money for bills to one side. The balance was consistently low. 
Although Mrs S tried to ringfence money for bills, when looking at her accounts holistically I 
can see that there was little to no disposable income each month. Essential expenditure I 
have identified came to at least £860 a month. Her income was about £910 a month taking 
into account her salary and child benefit payments, leaving disposable income of around £50 
a month.
I have already explained that if Mrs S had used the full credit available to her on the credit 
card and paid it back in a sustainable manner, her repayments would have been about £129 
a month. 
So, on the complete information now available to me I am satisfied that if Clydesdale had 
conducted necessary and proportionate checks it would have understood that Mrs S wasnt 
able to afford the credit it provided. I now think that Clydesdale acted unfairly, and Mrs S has 
lost out as a result. Putting things right
As I dont think Clydesdale ought to have opened the account, I dont think it is fair for it to be
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Mrs S should
pay back the amount she has borrowed. Therefore, if my decision becomes final, I will direct
Clydesdale to:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already
refunded) that have been applied.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs S along with
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the
date of settlement. Clydesdale should also remove all adverse information regarding
this account from Mrs Ss credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Clydesdale should
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs S for the remaining amount. Once
Mrs S has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the account
should be removed from her credit file.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Clydesdale to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If 
it intends to apply the refund to reduce the outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
tax.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay compensation as I have 
described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman