DRN-2719033
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) have paid them less 
than they were promised upon the maturity of their mortgage endowment policy.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Mr and Mrs B took out a with profits mortgage endowment policy with Aviva in April 1995 
that matured in April 2020. Theyve complained because Aviva wrote to them on 18 March 
2020 stating that they would receive £57,000, only to eventually receive £2,582.69 less than 
this around a month later. 
I think its important to point out that this isnt money that has been taken away from Mr and 
Mrs Bs plan or redistributed. This is because the amount of £57,000 was a prospective 
value that Aviva wouldve anticipated they could achieve with the terminal bonus (in other 
words, it was an estimate). It was never money that was in their plan all along that has been 
clawed back at the last moment; it is just that the anticipated value wasnt achieved. So I 
dont consider it to be the case that £2,582.69 has gone missing and that Aviva ought to 
explain where it has gone.
A share of Mr and Mrs Bs plans final value would have been accounted for by the terminal 
bonus. But whereas annual bonuses are guaranteed, the terminal bonus was not. And I can 
see that Aviva made it clear in their letter of March 2020 that the value quoted was only an 
estimate:
We cant yet give you the final value of your policy, but we can give you an estimate, 
which can go down as well as up.

We may also pay a final bonus, but this is not guaranteed.

We dont know the final maturity value of your policy until the day your policy 
matures. Well calculate the value of the policy on that day. Until then we can only 
provide you with an estimate.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs B were told that the final bonus was not guaranteed in their 
initial policy illustration, as well as the annual statements they received. So, although Aviva 
estimated £57,000, they are not obliged to pay this and Im satisfied they have made this 
clear. 
Aviva have explained that the reason the final payment was lower than the value they 
estimated was because the final bonus rates were changed on 15 April 2020  which was 
between the date of the letter sent in March 2020 and the date the policy matured. 
In terms of the factors that caused the bonus to fall, Aviva have explained that the difficult 
market conditions prevailing at the time of maturity were the reason behind this, and I note 
this was around the time that markets were particularly volatile and had fallen significantly in 
response to the Coronavirus pandemic and the country being placed into lockdown.
I appreciate they may not have gone into a great amount of detail about all the other various 
factors that can affect a bonus. But this can depend on a number of things, such as the cost 
of the insurance business, as well the need to smooth bonuses from year to year (where 
some of the profits are held back during good years to boost the profits during the bad years 
to avoid any drastic fluctuations).
The reality is that bonuses are typically arrived at using a variety of factors and formulae that 
are calculated by an actuary. And the actuaries will decide how much of the funds profits are 
paid as a bonus and how much will be kept in reserve to help with smoothing as explained 
above. But I wouldnt have expected Aviva to have disclosed complex or detailed 
breakdowns of their actuarial calculations to Mr and Mrs B. So I think it was reasonable 
enough for them to explain that adverse investment conditions had been the predominant 
reason for the fall in value.
Aviva explained to Mr and Mrs B in their policy illustration that the final value of their plan 
could rise as well as fall, and that the target amount was not guaranteed. I can also see that 
they were sent Red alert letters in 2017, 2018 and 2019 which told them there was a high 
risk of their policy not paying out enough to cover the target amount. The fact that the final 
bonus rate was eventually lower when it was calculated at the point of maturity does not 
mean that Aviva have treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly or have deprived them of their money  
it is simply a result of the market/fund conditions prevailing at that moment in time, and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that the fall in value was due to their negligent management of the 
investments. I can also see that Aviva have applied their mortgage endowment promise 
towards decreasing the shortfall that Mr and Mrs B have been left with upon maturity. I 
appreciate it hasnt covered the entire shortfall, but Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B were told 
that the amount quoted in their letter of March 2020 was not guaranteed. So, in the 
circumstances, I will not be asking Aviva to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman