DRN-2466652
The complaint
Mr O complains about how Insurance Factory Ltd administered his commercial motor 
insurance policy. He wants it to waive the balance it says he owes. 
What happened
Mr O took out a policy through Insurance Factory Ltd and paid a £600 deposit. But Insurance 
Factory Ltd said Mr O didnt disclose all his convictions, specifically a DR60. The insurer 
then wanted an additional premium from him. Mr O said he had disclosed the conviction. But 
he didnt make the second monthly payment and so Insurance Factory Ltd cancelled his 
policy. It now says that there is an outstanding balance of £469.23 due. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought Mr O 
hadnt given the specific conviction code to the agent when taking out the policy. But he 
thought he had described the offence and the penalty points issued. He thought the agent 
could have asked further questions if he needed clarification. But he also thought Mr O 
should have given clearer information and sent in his requested documents sooner.
The investigator thought Mr O wouldnt have entered into the contract of insurance if hed 
been provided with the correct quote with the DR60. He didnt think Insurance Factory Ltd 
needed to return Mr Os deposit as this was calculated on the initial premium quoted and he 
thought Mr O should pay for his time on cover. But he thought its offer to waive half the 
outstanding balance was fair and reasonable. He thought Insurance Factory Ltd had notified 
Mr O of the pending cancellation when it didnt receive his payment. 
Mr O replied that he wanted his complaint reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision. Insurance Factory Ltd said that Mr O provided an incorrect date for his 
conviction which showed that he wasnt making every effort to provide an accurate picture of 
his driving history.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr O feels frustrated that he paid a deposit for his policy but wasnt 
able to benefit from it and provide the expected taxi service. I can also understand that hes 
unhappy that Insurance Factory Ltd says there is an outstanding balance owing for his 
cancelled policy. 
When the policy was cancelled, Insurance Factory Ltd charged Mr O its arrangement fee 
and interest on his direct debit payment as set out in its Terms of Business. It also passed 
on the insurers charge for time on cover. These costs were set against the amount Mr O 
had paid in his deposit and first months payment. And a balance of £469.23 remained 
outstanding. 
Mr O wanted his deposit returned. But I think Mr O had benefit of time on cover and so I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Insurance Factory Ltd to refund this. 
Insurance Factory Ltd said that a balance remained outstanding as Mr O hadnt continued to 
pay his premiums. I can see that the policy ran for six weeks whilst Insurance Factory Ltd 
repeatedly requested Mr Os licence summary. 
I think Mr O could have mitigated his losses by sending in this requested information earlier. 
Mr O has explained that he was busy. But I think if he had sent it in when first requested, his 
charges would have been less. 
I think Insurance Factory Ltd could reasonably request this documentation. I think it was for 
Mr O to provide the information promptly so his policy could be validated. I think Mr O had 
benefit of cover for six weeks. 
So I cant say that it would be wrong for Insurance Factory Ltd to request payment of the 
outstanding balance in usual circumstances. So Ive considered whether it acted fairly and 
reasonably in Mr Os particular circumstances. 
When he took out the policy, I think it was for Mr O to provide Insurance Factory Ltd with a 
fair presentation of his driving history, including his convictions within the previous five years. 
I think when Mr O applied for the policy with Insurance Factory Ltd Mr O didnt state that he 
had a DR60. But I think he did describe the DR60 offence and he told the agent of the points 
this earned him. 
The agent didnt pick up on this at the time and so the conviction wasnt included in his list of 
endorsements. Arguably, if the conviction had been picked up by the agent and the correct 
premium quoted, then Mr O wouldnt have taken out the policy due to the cost. 
But I think Mr O had opportunities to correct this error. He was sent the policy schedule with 
his Welcome Pack and this listed the convictions and their codes. The DR60 wasnt 
included, and so I think Mr O could have noticed this and corrected the error. But I agree 
with the investigator that the endorsements arent readily obvious in the Welcome Pack as 
theyre on page 8. And so I can understand that Mr O may not have seen the error. 
As there were errors on both sides, I think Insurance Factory Ltds offer to split the 
outstanding balance owed is fair and reasonable. I think this acknowledges that the agent 
could have picked up on Mr Os disclosure and asked further questions, and that Mr O 
wasnt expert in conviction codes. But I think it also acknowledges that Mr O didnt correct 
the error on his policy schedule and was careless with the date of his conviction.
Mr O said he didnt receive his cancellation notice and only found out that his policy had 
been cancelled some days afterwards. But Ive seen that Insurance Factory Ltd sent him a 
seven days notice of cancellation and so I think it acted fairly and reasonably and in keeping 
with the policy terms and conditions.
Putting things right
I require Insurance Factory Ltd to waive half of the balance outstanding for Mr Os cover, as 
it has offered to do. This means that Mr O should pay Insurance Factory Ltd £234.62.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision us that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Insurance Factory Ltd to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman