DRN-2605997
The complaint
Miss G complains that Capital One (Europe) plc told her she would recieve a payment of 
£200 but only gave her £50.
What happened
Miss G says she received letters from Capital One telling her she would receive a refund of 
charges and interest of about £200. She says she spoke to Capital One and it told her it 
would send her a cheque but later deducted the money from her balance. Miss G says that 
is unfair and she needed the money for her bills and only received £50. She would like the 
rest of the money.
Capital One says it told Miss G in September 2020 that it would refund charges and interest 
amounting to just over £200 to her account. It accepts it gave Miss G incorrect information 
when she called, by telling her she would receive a cheque, and has apologised for that 
mistake and paid £50 compensation.
Miss G brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the letters from Capital One made clear the refund would be applied to the account 
which is what took place. The investigator accepted that Capital One later gave Miss G 
incorrect information but thought it had apologised and paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation.
Miss G doesnt accept that view and says Capital Ones actions were unfair and she needed 
the money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Capital One has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Miss G will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at both letters sent to Miss G by Capital One in September 2020. Im satisfied 
they make clear that the refund of charges and interest will be applied to Miss Gs account 
and I think that is what took place here. I appreciate Miss G was expecting a cheque for the 
refunds, but I dont think Capital One made a mistake or acted unfairly by applying the 
refunds to the balance Miss G owed.
I accept that when Miss G called Capital One, she was given incorrect information. I dont 
think Miss G suffered any financial loss as a result of that mistake and Im satisfied Capital 
One has fairly apologised and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation 
amount of £50.
Overall, I find that Capital One applied the refund to Miss Gs account as it said it would. I 
dont find that was a mistake and so I cant order Capital One to pay that amount direct to 
Miss G or do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman