DRN-3690129
The complaint
Mr B has complained to AJ Bell Management Limited t/a AJ Bell Youinvest (AJ Bell) about 
the due diligence it carried out when he transferred his existing pension to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) in 2019.
The complaint is also about the lack of ongoing processes in place to prevent customers 
following high-risk investment strategies through AJ Bells platform and lack of support 
available.  Mr B has also stated that he wasnt given sufficient warning of the charges 
applicable before various transactions were completed.
What happened
On 12 November 2019 Mr B completed an online application to open a SIPP with AJ Bell 
and transfer funds of £131,183.31 from his Legal & General personal pension.
Within the next two months Mr B bought and sold shares using the majority of funds in the 
SIPP and made reasonable gains.  Between 8 January and 13 January 2020 Mr B used 
£146,990.87 held in his SIPP to purchase shares in a FTSE 250 listed company, Finablr Plc.
Mr B had concerns about the investment and raised his complaint with AJ Bell on 12 March 
2020. Several days later, Finablr Plcs securities were suspended on the London Stock 
Exchange by agreement with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  Finablr Plc has since 
entered administration and its shares are suspended  threatening the loss of all Mr Bs 
pension funds.
AJ Bell issued its final response to Mr Bs complaint in May 2020.  In summary it said:
The product was taken out on a non-advised basis.
The investments made by Mr B were classified as non-complex financial 
instruments and there was no requirement for it to assess suitability.
The charges for the transactions made were in line with what was disclosed and 
accepted by Mr B at inception of the SIPP.
Mr B disagreed and remained unhappy about the situation  and so he referred his 
complaint to our Service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint and concluded it should not be upheld. 
He noted the relevant rules and regulations that AJ Bell is required to operate under but 
explained why he didnt consider it fair and reasonable to say it had done anything wrong.  In 
summary he said:
Mr B instigated the transfer request and did so on an execution-only basis.
AJ Bell was not required to provide advice or assess suitability of the product.
If Mr B was uncertain of how his SIPP worked or what investment choices to make, 
he could have sought advice.
He was satisfied that AJ Bell had clearly made Mr B aware of charges, and that it 
wasnt necessary to provide a warning about charges before each transaction.  He 
also noted that AJ Bell had agreed to waive fees of £32.04 from Mr Bs account as a 
gesture of goodwill.
AJ Bell had nothing further to add.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators assessment and felt that aspects of his complaint had 
not been considered.  In summary he asked for a fresh review of the complaint, and 
highlighted further points for consideration:
The central complaint point is that he wasnt able to make good investment decisions 
at that time because of undiagnosed mental health issues.  AJ Bell was responsible 
for making sure customers were capable of making life-changing investment 
decisions.
AJ Bell should have asked filter questions or gave warnings prior to the start of the 
transfer process.  Some basic questions about mental health may have stopped the 
transfer or at least flagged concerns.
How is it fair that customers who suffer from certain health conditions which impair 
their decision-making abilities are held responsible for their actions, but SIPP 
operator businesses are not held to higher standards?
The investigator made the same assumptions that AJ Bell did in its final response 
letter about his health.  But that letter was written before any medical diagnosis of a 
mental health condition was made.
AJ Bell had offered customers a £250 payment as an incentive for transferring over 
£100,000.  This type of inducement takes advantage of those with poor mental 
health.
The investigator acknowledged Mr Bs comments but wasnt persuaded to change his 
conclusions overall  and so the complaint has been referred for a fresh review by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached broadly the 
same conclusion as the investigator and Ill explain my reasons below.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
Relevant considerationsIn my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And in this case, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include 
Principle 2 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 6  Clients interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
clients and treat them fairly. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The 
general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules.
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression 
in the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair 
and reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not 
treated its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of the BBA judgment including paragraph 162 
set out above, said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely 
to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that 
they are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim 
of the Principles- based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to 
impose general duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6.
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the 
ombudsman in that complaint, which I have described above, and included the Principles 
and good industry practice at the relevant time as relevant considerations that were 
required to be taken into account.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which 
remind SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the 
outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have considered these regulatory publications in their entirety in considering Mr Bs 
complaint.
Overall, I need to consider whether AJ Bell complied with its regulatory obligations as set 
out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, to pay due regards to the 
interests of its customers (in this case Mr B), to treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly 
and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the publications 
listed above to provide an indication of what AJ Bell could have done to comply with its 
regulatory obligations and duties.
What did AJ Bells obligations mean in practice?
I should make it clear that AJ Bell as the SIPP operator wasnt responsible for giving advice 
to Mr B.  But as set out above, AJ Bell did have regulatory obligations to ensure Mr B was 
being treated fairly and reasonably.
Mr B applied for the transfer of his SIPP on an execution-only basis.  This means he wasnt 
introduced to AJ Bell by an adviser, but rather made an application of his own volition  
which is consistent with what Mr B has told us.  But that doesnt mean that AJ Bell didnt 
have its own responsibility to ensure Mr B was being treated fairly and reasonably and act in 
his best interests.
In this case, the business AJ Bell was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments.
Ive considered whether AJ Bell ought to have had concerns about Mr B applying to transfer 
his existing personal pension into a SIPP to invest.  I dont think that an execution-only 
application in of itself would have been unusual or caused particular concern to AJ Bell. Mr B 
was not giving up any guaranteed benefits by transferring away from his existing Legal & 
General pension. And so, Ive considered the nature of the investments Mr B made, again on an execution-only basis, to decide whether they should have led AJ Bell to query things or 
carry out further checks.
Sometimes an investor will give instructions to invest in specialist, esoteric or unregulated 
investments.  That may give rise for concern, particularly as those investments are usually 
only regarded as being suitable for certain types of clients  typically sophisticated or high-
net worth investors. In that sort of situation, a SIPP provider, acting in its clients best 
interests, might be expected to undertake extra due diligence checks before proceeding with 
the clients instruction to invest.
But that wasnt the situation here  as Mr B invested in mainstream investments and initially 
made reasonable gains. The investments were all traded on recognised exchanges and 
readily realisable stocks and shares.
Mr Bs problems came when he reinvested the funds in his SIPP in Finablr. At the time the 
investments were made in January 2020, Finablr was being traded on the FTSE 250 and 
whilst its value could fluctuate, it wasnt unregulated or esoteric.  Although Finablr stocks 
were suspended from being traded soon after in March 2020, AJ Bell could not have known 
that to be the case when the investments were made.
Mr Bs personal circumstances
Mr B has explained the nature of the health challenges hes experienced and why he 
believes AJ Bell ought to have done more to protect him from making life-changing 
investment decisions that he didnt have the appropriate capacity to make.
Its important I explain that I understand and appreciate the difficulty of Mr Bs situation, and 
the impact mental health issues have had on him. I do acknowledge that AJ Bell would have 
been reasonably required to take account of anything it knew about Mr Bs health in deciding 
whether to accept his investment instructions.
One of the things Mr B specifically says AJ Bell should have done, is to ask filter questions 
that could have highlighted risks and flagged concerns.  Ive considered this, and other steps 
which AJ Bell could have reasonably taken. In doing so, I note Mr B has explained that 
although he had been affected by health issues for some time, they were not diagnosed until 
sometime after the SIPP transfer and investments were made.
Having considered everything carefully I cant reasonably say that AJ Bell treated Mr B 
unfairly or failed to meet its obligations to act in his best interests.  Mr B had not been 
diagnosed as having health conditions that would have alerted AJ Bell to the possibility of 
him being vulnerable or unable to make investment decisions at the time.
Im aware Mr B has also explained he feels the £250 cash incentive that AJ Bell offered was 
an unfair inducement to customers without any additional safeguards.  I agree that the 
principle of financial incentives could expose individuals to the temptation of taking risks they 
wouldnt usually be willing to take. But modest payments such as the amount offered in this 
complaint are not especially unusual, and Im not persuaded it would have been a deciding 
factor for Mr B, given the level of funds that needed to be invested for him to receive such a 
modest inducement.
Charges
Ive also considered the concerns Mr B has raised about the transaction charges applied 
when he made investments  and his view that AJ Bell should have highlighted individual 
charges at each point before they were applied.Im satisfied that AJ Bells charges were made known to Mr B as part of the process of his 
SIPP being sold to him.  Whilst I understand why Mr B might like to have had fees confirmed 
before making each transaction, I dont feel AJ Bell needed to provide a warning before 
allowing the completion of each trade.  If Mr B was uncertain or concerned about potential 
transaction fees, he could have queried them before placing any investment.
I also note that AJ Bell has agreed to waive charges totalling £32.04 from Mr Bs account as 
a gesture of goodwill.  I dont think it needs to do anything else in this regard.
In summary
I understand Mr B will be disappointed with my conclusions, but I cant say, in the 
circumstances of this case, that he has been treated unfairly or other than in accordance 
with AJ Bells regulatory obligations, including the Principles for Businesses. 
Whilst I appreciate the distress and frustration Mr B has experienced, I must assure him that 
Ive considered everything fully and impartially, but Im unable to uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against AJ 
Bell Management Limited and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman