DRN-3630751
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly declined their claim on their 
building warranty.
What happened
In 2016 Mr and Mrs B bought a new home that came with a ten-year building warranty. In
2019 they made a claim under section 3.3 for a defect with the water drainage system on the
perimeter of the property and a gabion wall that was unsafely leaning towards the main
house. This section of the warranty is the structural insurance period, that provides cover for
the defined terms of Major Damage caused by a defect to the Housing Unit.
Amtrust sent an expert to inspect the drain. They identified a problem with the drainage
system relating to the pump at Mr and Mrs Bs property, as it was draining both surface and
sewage water which was causing reduced flow and some standing water.
However at the start of 2020 Amtrust informed Mr and Mrs B that it was declining their
claims. It said that in order for there to be a valid claim, there would need to be both a defect
and Major Damage, and the problem with the drainage wasnt causing Major Damage. While
it had identified a defect with the gabion wall, as the gabion wall wasnt causing damage to
the Housing Unit and as it wasnt part of the Housing Unit itself, it was specifically excluded
under the building warranty, and the cover for a present or imminent danger wouldnt apply.
Over the months that followed, various investigations took place. And both Mr and Mrs B and
Amtrust instructed experts to report on the problem with the drains. Mr and Mrs B appealed
the decision and subsequently made a complaint, but Amtrust didnt change its position. It
also said that a problem with the drainage pump had been apparent in 2016 but wasnt
raised as a claim during the relevant section of the policy covering the first two years, so it
couldnt now be raised under section 3.3, which states that The Underwriter will indemnify
the Policyholder against all claims discovered and notified to the Underwriter during the
Structural Insurance Period.
In January 2021 there was a storm in the area of Mr and Mrs Bs property. And the property
suffered a significant flood to the ground floor. Mr B got back in touch with Amtrust to inform
it and said that due to the defective drainage system, the water hadnt drained away. Amtrust
responded to say that its stance on his drainage claim still stood, and damage due to storms
was specifically excluded from the warranty, so a new claim wouldnt be accepted.
Mr and Mrs B didnt think this was fair and brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered everything and on 10 December 2021 issued an outcome
recommending the complaint be upheld. She thought that Mr and Mrs B had done enough to
show that both a defect and major damage had occurred so thought it reasonable that
Amtrust cover the fault with the drainage system.
Further she said that while she accepted the gabion wall didnt form part of the housing unit,
so wasnt strictly covered under the warranty terms, it was causing an imminent danger to
the Housing Unit due to a defect. And therefore, thought it fair and reasonable that Amtrust
provide cover under the warranty for putting this right.
Mr and Mrs B accepted our investigators view, however Amtrust didnt and asked for the
case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
My first provisional decision
When the case came to me, I wrote to both sides with my initial provisional findings. In these
I said I intended to require Amtrust to:
Accept Mr and Mrs Bs claim for the drainage system and settle it in line with the
remaining warranty terms and conditions.
Accept Mr and Mrs Bs claim for the gabion wall and settle it in line with the remaining
warranty terms and conditions.
Pay Mr and Mrs B £1,000 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience
caused.
Mr and Mrs B responded to say they accepted my provisional findings. However they also
wanted their consequential losses to be included in the claim.
Amtrust didnt accept my findings. In regards to the gabion wall, it said that I hadnt
considered the full extent of the policy wording. It said that cover wasnt provided under
section 3.3 as the wall isnt part of the Housing Unit and it said under section 3.5 that relates
to an imminent danger, this needs to be because of a defect with the Housing Unit as well. It
also said that it wasnt fair for me to ask to pay for expensive repairs that I agreed werent
covered under the warranty.
In regards to the drainage it said that it thought the report produced by its expert wasnt
worded well, but thinks the drainage in question is outside of the property perimeter. And it
says the other reports provided expect the system to be able to cope with far above what it
should.
It also said it didnt agree a defect had been shown and therefore said it wasnt clear what
work should be done to fix it.
My second provisional decision
I considered both sides submissions following my first provisional decision and issued a 
revised provisional decision which read as follows:
Ill start by laying out the relevant parts of the warranty wording. Section 3.3 of the warranty
states:
The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder against all claims discovered and notified to
the Underwriter during the Structural Insurance Period in respect of:
1) The cost of complete or partial rebuilding or rectifying work to the Housing Unit which has
been affected by Major Damage provided always that the liability of the Underwriter does not
exceed the reasonable cost of rebuilding each Housing Unit to its original specification
Major damage is defined in the policy as:
19. MAJOR DAMAGE
a) Destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for which a
Certificate of Insurance has been issued by the Underwriter.
b) A condition requiring immediate remedial action to prevent actual destruction of or
physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for which a Certificate of Insurance hasbeen issued by the Underwriter.
in either case caused by a defect in the design, workmanship, materials or components of;
 the Structure; or
 the waterproofing elements of the Waterproof Envelope which is first discovered during the
Structural Insurance Period.
The policy covers defects in the Structure or waterproofing elements of the waterproof
envelope of the Housing Unit. The key definitions are defined as follows;
15. HOUSING UNIT
The property described in the Certificate of Insurance comprising:
 the Structure;
 all non-load bearing elements and fixtures and fittings for which the Policyholder is 
responsible;
 any Common Parts retaining or boundary walls forming part of or providing support to the
Structure;
 any path or roadway within the perimeter of such property;
 the drainage system within the perimeter of such property for which the Policyholder is
responsible;
 any garage or other permanent out-building.
Housing Unit does not include any swimming pool, temporary structure, free-standing
household appliance, fence, retaining or boundary wall not forming part of or providing
support to the Structure.
25. STRUCTURE
 foundations;
 load-bearing parts of ceilings, floors, staircases and associated guard rails, walls and roofs,
together with loadbearing retaining walls necessary for stability;
 non-load bearing partition walls;
 chimneys and flues;
 roof covering;
 any external finishing surface (including rendering) necessary for the water-tightness of the
external envelope;
 floor decking and screeds, where these fail to support normal loads;
 wet applied plaster;
 double or triple glazed panes to external windows and doors;
 underground drainage that the Policyholder is responsible for maintaining.
29. WATERPROOF ENVELOPE
 Waterproof Envelope shall mean the basement, ground floors, external walls, roofs,
skylights, windows and doors of a Housing Unit.
I will address each of the claims in turn, making reference to the above terms and definitions
where relevant.
Drainage system
Amtrust has declined this part of the claim as the damage was caused by a flood which is
specifically excluded under the warranty. It also says that a defect hasnt been identified, so
it cant yet confirm that cover would apply.
Defect
Ive first considered whether there is a defect.As part of this complaint, both Amtrust and Mr B have provided a number of reports from
both before and after the flooding occurred. Ive considered all the reports and Im satisfied
that they are all in agreement that the drainage system at the property wasnt functioning
correctly in the years before the incident in 2021. Ive included extracts from the reports
below.
Amtrusts surveyors report from August 2020 states:
The concerns are raised as a number of drainage runs retain water with evidence of
staining and discolouration of the sides of the pipe. This is indicative that water is
retained longer than expected in the pipework as the rain and foul combined water 
takes
longer to flow to the main sewer or the flow rate is reduced by a lack of fall in the
underground pipework. We cannot ignore the water retention
The point for the claims handler to consider is if the risk of blockages due to the
discoloration of the pipework caused by a potential poor fall in the underground 
drainage
system is Major Damage.
Mr Bs expert report from September 2019:
The property has been constructed with a combined drainage system which means
that the rainwater and the foul waste is directed to the same ultimate outfall pipe,
because of the location of the property this has resulted in a pumping arrangement
having been installed to direct sewage and rainwater to the main sewer.
The installation is contrary to the requirements of [local water board] and also in
contravention of the building regulations
The drainage system installed is not fit for purpose.
Mr Bs drainage consultant report dated May 2020:
In this case the local ditch system is available and [local water board] have
confirmed in these circumstances their foul sewer should not have been used for
draining surface water from the property. The permission for this connection is for the
foul water only.
Groundwater can however be discharged using the same surface water system but
the overall capacity of the wet well (storage area) and surface water pumps must
deal with the flow specified in section 2.5 of document H which cross references the
British Standard EN 752.
Failure to provide such storage or pumps on the separated drainage system (with
only the foul drains discharging to the [local water board] sewer) means that flooding
with a mixture of foul and surface water is inevitable (as the scheme is at the
present).
Based on these reports Im, satisfied that there is enough evidence to show that there is a
defect with the drainage system. The reports all conclude that it hasnt been built correctly
and comment on both the fall of the pipework and the pump system. And that this is
ultimately resulting in both foul and surface water being drained and discharged together and
causing problems with the flow of the drainage water.
Amtrusts report of 2020 is particularly of note, as in the extract above it appears to accept
there is a defect as it concludes there is only the matter of whether major damage has been
caused to determine in order to agree warranty cover. When the report was compiled, the
only damage was due to the pipe itself which is why the claim was turned down at this stage.
The report concluded:Whilst there may be a minor issue in regards to the falls of the pipework, this is not
contributing towards Major Damage of the Housing Unit as there has only been one
documented instance of flooding to the Housing Unit as a result of pump failure
which was in 2016 and no documented failures since.
So it seems Amtrust accepted at this point that there was a defect, just no major damage. It
is worth noting that while there appears to have been a minor failure of the pump in 2016
that caused a small leak onto the patio, this didnt form part of a claim at the time. And the
defect later identified in 2019, was registered by Amtrust as a new claim under section 3.3.
In response to my first provisional decision, Amtrust commented that it thought the report
from its own expert was nave and misleading. But its provided no counter evidence or
report to support that the report was inaccurate in its findings. So Im not persuaded that the
findings of the report should be disregarded.
Amtrust also commented that there may be issues with the required work falling outside of
the perimeter of Mr and Mrs Bs home. While I accept that the problem of the foul and
surface water being discharged together falls outside of the perimeter of the property, as this
takes place in a neighbouring field, from the reports above the issue that is causing that
problem comes from an issue with the pump and separation system. And Mr B has provided
photos and plans of the building that show this is located at Mr Bs property. The definition of
the Housing Unit, which I quoted earlier in this decision, includes the drainage system within
the perimeter of such property for which the Policyholder is responsible. So Im satisfied that
the defect itself is within the perimeter of Mr Bs property and therefore forms part of the
Housing Unit as defined in the policy.
Based on all the evidence, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B have done enough to show there
is a defect with the drainage system as defined in the warranty.
Major Damage
As Im satisfied theres a defect, I need to consider whether the defect has caused Major
Damage as defined in the policy at paragraph 19 a) and b). As set out above, this needs to
be a) Destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit for which a
Certificate of Insurance has been issued by the Underwriter And/or b) A condition requiring
immediate remedial action to prevent actual destruction of or physical damage to any portion
of the Housing Unit for which a Certificate of Insurance has been issued by the Underwriter
in either case caused by a defect in the design, workmanship, materials or components of
the Structure
Ive looked at photos of the damage caused to Mr and Mrs Bs Property since the flood and
listened to their accounts. The damage to the property has been severe. It has caused
destruction across the ground floor of the home that has left Mr and Mrs B unable to live at
their property since the event. Based on this, Im satisfied there has been major damage
caused to the property.
In response to my provisional findings, Amtrust has said that damage due to a storm is
excluded under the warranty, and as the flood was a direct result of a storm it wouldnt be
covered.
Ive considered this, however from looking at the photos of the extent of the damage to the
building, I am persuaded that this far exceeds what Id reasonably expect following a storm.
The water contained on the patio, covers the entirety of the ground floor up to the ceiling.
And while Mr and Mrs Bs property is an unusual construction  built into a hill  this far
exceeds the damage Id expect following a one of storm event. Further the construction of
the house means an effective drainage system is even more important. So based on theevidence, Im persuaded that the proximate cause of the damage was a defective drainage
system, and the storm has merely highlighted this.
Conclusion
Based on all the evidence, Im persuaded there is both a defect with the drainage system
and that it has caused Major Damage to the Housing Unit, as defined in the warranty terms.
And therefore warranty cover under section 3.3 would reasonably apply. I am therefore
minded to direct Amtrust to accept the claim and arrange appropriate remedial work in order
to rectify the defect.
I note Amtrust has said that further investigative work will be required in order to determine
the exact defect and repairs that are required. And I accept further investigation may be
necessary in order to scope a repair. However it isnt for me to direct the exact work that
happens next. Im persuaded that theres enough evidence to show a valid claim under the
warranty, its now for Amtrust to do the required work to put this right.
Gabion wall
In my initial Provisional Decision dated 26 January 2022 I said that while I accepted the
defect with the gabion wall didnt fall under warranty cover, I thought it fair and reasonable
that Amtrust provide cover as it was likely to cause damage to the housing unit.
As stated in the quoted warranty terms earlier in this decision, section 3.3 provides cover for:
The cost of complete or partial rebuilding or rectifying work to the Housing Unit
which has been affected by Major Damage
In the warranty, the Housing Unit is defined, and part of this definition states:
Housing Unit does not include any swimming pool, temporary structure, freestanding
household appliance, fence, retaining or boundary wall not forming part of or providing 
support to the Structure.
The gabion wall is a retaining wall on the perimeter of the property not forming or providing
support to the Structure itself, which is defined as:
 foundations;
 load-bearing parts of ceilings, floors, staircases and associated guard rails, walls
and roofs, together with loadbearing retaining walls necessary for stability;
 non-load bearing partition walls;
 chimneys and flues;
 roof covering;
Having carefully reviewed the representations made by Amtrust about the Definition in the
emails dated 11 and 22 March 2022, I agree it is excluded from warranty cover.
Initially, I concluded that in the circumstances it was fair and reasonable for Amtrust to
provide cover for the wall as I felt there was enough evidence to show there was a defect
and that the defect was likely to cause imminent damage to the Housing Unit, even though
the gabion wall did not arguably form part of the Housing Unit or the Structure. Mr and Mrs
Bs expert report from 2020 highlighted the following issues:
The onsite Gabion structure has been installed with a 10 backward lean the
uppermost baskets to the left-hand elevation have a 15 backwards lean.The manufacturer's design manual advises the fill material should be a minimum of
the mesh size which in this case is 75mm the actual fill material used appears to be
,<20mm gravel. The recommended fill material is an important feature to prevent
movement the larger stone interlocks and prevents slip smaller stones do not grip
each other and can lead to movement of fill material.
The design relies upon factual soil investigation in this case I could find no reference
to any factual soil investigation having taken place prior to the installation of the
Gabion wall.
The inclusion of a 225mm thick wall founded on top of the gabion wall has further
increased the loading and is exerting forces that the Gabion wall is not designed to
have applied.
The wall exhibits evidence of movement and it is my opinion that catastrophic
collapse of this structure is a strong possibility if hydrostatic water pressure continues
to affect the performance and stability of the wall the fact that wall structures are
constructed on top of the Gabion walling means the structure is not built in
compliance with the design loading and stability parameters.
So I said that while there was no defect with the housing unit as defined in the warranty, as
the defect to the wall was likely to result in a catastrophic collapse which would cause
serious damage to the housing unit, then it was fair for Amtrust to provide warranty cover in
this instance.
Amtrust disagreed with my provisional findings. It said as I agreed the wall wasnt covered
under the warranty it wasnt fair to ask it to still provide cover in spite of this. It also pointed
out that the cost to rebuild the gabion wall was in excess of £200,000 and therefore argued
that this wasnt a proportionate resolution for something that the warranty doesnt provide 
for. I would therefore need to be able to justify any departure from the clear wording of the
warranty or I wouldnt be able to make that finding.
Based on these comments Ive re-considered my provisional findings to consider whether it
is possible to justify a departure from the exclusions in the warranty cover and the definition
of the Housing Unit and Structure. While I am satisfied that there is a defect with the
gabion wall and that this may lead to serious damage to Mr and Mrs Bs property, I have to
consider what is fair and reasonable to both parties and this means taking regard of the
warranty definitions and exclusions.
As stated previously in this decision, the definition of Housing Unit is clearly defined in the
warranty. And the most relevant part states:
Housing Unit does not include any swimming pool, temporary structure, freestanding
household appliance, fence, retaining or boundary wall not forming part of
or providing support to the Structure.
In this case, the gabion wall does not provide support to the structure as it is a retaining wall,
which is completely separate from the Housing Unit itself. And in order for the gabion wall to
form part of the Housing Unit as defined, it must be necessary for the stability of the
structure. As the gabion wall does not provide any support to the structure, it is not. So I
cant fairly say that it would form part of the Housing Unit as defined in the warranty.
As Ive said previously, in order for the warranty to provide cover under section 3.3 there
needs to be a defect to the Housing Unit and Structure which has caused Major Damage to
the housing unit. As the gabion wall does not form part of the Housing Unit as defined in the
policy a defect to the wall isnt covered. And while Mr Bs report says that damage to the
Housing Unit is likely, this hasnt yet happened. So the potential claim fails to meet bothrequirements under the section  there is neither a defect nor damage to the Housing Unit.
So having re-considered everything carefully. On balance I dont think its proportionate or
fair and reasonable to require Amtrust to cover the cost of a significant repair that doesnt
meet either of the two requirements for cover under the warranty.
Ive also considered whether cover elsewhere in the warranty would fairly apply, due to the
potential imminent safety risk the wall poses.
Section 3.5 provides cover as follows:
The Underwriter will Indemnify the Policyholder during the Structural Insurance Period
against the cost of repairing, replacing or rectifying the Housing Unit where such repair,
replacement or rectification cost Is the result of a present or Imminent danger to the physical
health and safety of the occupants of the Housing Unit because the Housing Unit does not
comply with Building Regulations
So there is cover where theres a safety risk to the Housing Unit. However this section is
also dependent on the defect itself being to the Housing Unit. And as the gabion wall doesnt
meet this definition, I cant fairly say that cover should be provided under this section either.
So while I greatly sympathise with Mr and Mrs Bs position and the problem the gabion wall
poses, I have to consider what is fair to both sides. While warranties are in place to put right
defects found in the first ten years, they dont cover everything. So after considering all the
evidence available again, on this occasion I find that the warranty doesnt provide cover. I
therefore dont think it would be fair to ask Amtrust to cover the claim for the gabion wall, so I
intend not to require it to take any action on this point.
Compensation
In my initial provisional findings I said that I thought Amtrust should pay Mr and Mrs B £1,000
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it has caused.
I highlighted that due to the severe damage to their home, Mr and Mrs B have explained that
theyve not been able to live at the property for some time. And due to the delays with
accepting the claim, they havent begun repairs to the property which has caused significant
distress and inconvenience.
In response to my initial findings, Mr and Mrs B accepted my suggested compensation
award. Amtrust didnt accept but provided no other comment other than to agree some
compensation is due.
Based on this, I see no reason to depart from my initial provisional findings. And intend to
require Amtrust to pay £1,000 compensation.
Consequential losses
Mr B and Mrs B have also said that Amtrust should cover the cost of the rent paid while
living out of their home, as well as other consequential losses they have incurred due to the
flood. I can see the warranty includes costs for alternative accommodation as part of the
cover provided, so Id expect Amtrust to consider this as part of the claim for the drainage,
on receipt of proof of the cost from Mr B and that it hasnt been covered under any other
insurance policies.
However I note theyve incurred costs in the arrangement of a number of professional
reports theyve provided in order to assist them in proving their claim. And I think itsreasonable that Amtrust pays for those that have led to a change in the outcome of the
claim. So I intend to require Amtrust to pay for Mr and Mrs Bs professional reports that
commented on the drainage system, plus 8% simple interest to make up for the time theyve
been without the funds.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given, I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in part. Im minded to
require Amtrust Europe Limited to:
Accept Mr and Mrs Bs claim for the drainage system and settle it in line with the
warranty terms and conditions.
Pay Mr and Mrs B £1,000 compensation.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs B for the expert reports they instructed in relation to the drainage
system, on receipt of proof of these costs.
Pay 8% simple interest on the cost of the reports from the date they were paid for until
the date of settlement.
Consider Mr and Mrs Bs additional claim related costs and losses in line with the
warranty terms and conditions.
Responses to my second provisional decision
Mr B responded to my decision to confirm he accepted it.
Amtrust responded to confirm it had no further comments.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have provided no further comment, I see no reason to depart from the 
position outlined in my second provisional decision copied above. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in part. I direct Amtrust Europe 
Limited to:
Accept Mr and Mrs Bs claim for the drainage system and settle it in line with the
warranty terms and conditions.
Pay Mr and Mrs B £1,000 compensation.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs B for the expert reports they instructed in relation to the drainage
system, on receipt of proof of these costs.
Pay 8% simple interest on the cost of the reports from the date they were paid for until
the date of settlement.
Consider Mr and Mrs Bs additional claim related costs and losses in line with the
warranty terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman