DRN-2918020
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC provided him with misleading information about 
the porting facility on his buy-to-let mortgage. Because he was unable to port his product to 
a property he already owned, he says he had no choice but to redeem him mortgage, 
incurring an early repayment charge that he wants refunded. He says hes lost out financially 
in other ways too as he had to make alternative arrangements to facilitate his plans.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr W took a buy-to-let mortgage with Barclays. He borrowed around £320,500 
on a rate of 1.74% fixed for two years until 30 April 2021.
In August 2020 Mr W called Barclays to discuss porting his mortgage to another property 
that he already owned. His intention was to move into the property currently mortgaged 
through Barclays and let his other one. Barclays told him that he could submit a porting 
application, subject to him reducing his loan to value to below 75% first. A light touch 
affordability check was carried out and Mr W was told to call back to submit a full application 
when ready.
In October 2020 Mr W called back to start the porting application. During this call Barclays 
said that it was outside its policy to port to an already owned property. The application didnt 
go ahead, and Mr W raised a complaint about the lack of transparency and misleading 
information provided about the porting facility. 
Barclays didnt agree to waive the ERC, as it thought it had been charged fairly in line with 
the mortgage terms which were clearly set out to Mr W. Barclays did apologise for giving 
Mr W incorrect information during his initial enquiry and paid £50 compensation for the 
mistake.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service. He is seeking a refund of the ERC paid  around 
£6,400, a refund of the initial product fee paid of £1,795, to reflect not being able to keep the 
product for its intend period. He also wants £3,000 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by having to apply for new mortgages and making his complaint. 
An investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. Ultimately, she thought
Barclays had fairly charged the ERC in line with the mortgage terms. She thought Barclays 
offer fairly compensated Mr W for the mistake made. Mr W didnt agree and asked for the 
case to be decided by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws 2019 offer sets out the terms of his mortgage. Those terms state that if Mr W was to
redeem his mortgage before the end of the fixed term, hed incur an ERC. Hed be charged
2% on the amount repaid until 30 April 2021.
Mr Ws mortgage terms also state that he has the possibility to transfer the outstanding 
balance of this loan to another property, subject to the new property and your circumstances 
meeting our lending criteria at that time. 
Barclays lending criteria does not allow porting a BTL product to a property a customer 
owns already. 
When Mr W called Barclays in August 2020, he made his intentions clear. Barclays accepts 
it should have told him that he wasnt able to port his product to a property he already 
owned. Instead he was led to believe this was a possibility subject to application. 
Mr W was given the right information when he called a second time to start his application 
and the porting process around six weeks later. Because his circumstances didnt meet 
Barclays criteria, the application didnt go ahead. Nor did Mr W make the necessary 
overpayment on his mortgage account. 
I appreciate there was a loss of expectation here. But I dont think the discussions Mr W had 
with Barclays amounted to a guarantee that his application would definitely be accepted. 
Under the relevant rules, lenders are entitled to apply an ERC. Im satisfied that the ERC 
terms were set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer, which Mr W accepted 
when he took out the mortgage. 
Those terms (as set out above) state that porting will be considered if the application meets 
criteria at the time. Lenders arent required to publish their lending criteria as this information 
is commercially sensitive. Lending criteria can also often change regularly, so each 
application will be assessed in line with the policy at that time. Ive seen nothing in the terms 
that states porting applications would be accepted unconditionally. 
Mr W was given the correct information about Barclays policy before submitting his porting 
application. He decided to proceed with his plans which involved redeeming his mortgage 
early, knowing that the ERC would be applied. So, in the circumstances its difficult for me to 
say that Barclays cant apply the ERC - that Mr W agreed to when he took out the mortgage. 
When a lender offers a fixed rate mortgage product, both the lender and borrower are tied
into the fixed rate for the duration of the term. The ERC reflects the pre-estimated costs a
lender incurs across a range of mortgages where the borrower redeems the mortgage within
the benefit period.
I need to consider what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances for both parties. The ERC
forms part of the contract Mr W had with Barclays, so I can't say it's been unfair or 
unreasonable in applying the ERC. As such I wont be asking Barclays to refund the ERC 
paid or any other fees paid as a result of the redemption. 
Ive considered whether Mr W would have done anything different in the circumstances had 
he been given the right information sooner. When our investigator asked Mr W about the 
arrangements he made following the initial call with Barclays, he mentioned the residential 
mortgage application made against the property in question and provided a copy of his 
decision in principle dated 8 October 2020.
Mr Ws intention was always to switch this property to a residential property, to be funded by 
a new mortgage in joint names with his partner. Prior to the second call with Barclays, he 
went about seeking a mortgage on those terms. This is something he would have needed to 
do, in any event, in line with his initial plans. Its also worth noting that the new offer was valid for six months until 4 April 2021. As such, 
once Mr W knew he wasnt able to port his mortgage, he had the option to postpone his 
plans so the completion of his new mortgage tied in with fixed term end date on his Barclays 
mortgage  to mitigate his loss if he didnt want to incur an ERC. 
When considering everything I dont think Barclays acted unfairly when applying its policy or 
applying an ERC upon redemption, So I cant hold it responsible for any of the things that 
Mr W says resulted from the early redemption of his mortgage. 
I think its right that Barclays should compensate Mr W for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by giving incorrect information about the porting facility. However, I also think its 
important to explain that, as a service, our awards are designed to compensate consumers - 
not punish organisations.
We look at the impact any mistakes have had on the consumer concerned and give careful
consideration to a consumers individual circumstances, in determining whether any award
for distress and inconvenience is warranted.
Taking everything into account I think Barclays settlement of £50 is fair and reasonable
in the circumstances. I say this because, whilst Barclays did make a mistake, Mr W was 
given the right information at the next earliest opportunity before a full porting process 
began. For reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded Mr W would have acted differently in 
the circumstances and I cant hold Barclays responsible for the other losses explained by 
Mr W as I dont think it unfairly applied its terms in this case. As Barclays has already paid 
this compensation to Mr W, I dont expect it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman