DRN-2921430
The complaint
Mr F complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) gave him 
incorrect information about the payments due on a finance agreement.
What happened
In July 2018 Mr F entered into a two-year hire purchase agreement with MBFS. The 
agreement recorded that Mr F would make 24 monthly payments of £300.00 each and that 
the optional purchase payment would be £24,225.00. The agreement also said:
The first monthly payment of £300.00 plus the Acceptance Fee of £0.00 is due 1 month 
after the start date of this agreement.
This will be followed by 23 consecutive monthly payments each of £300.00 which will be 
collected on the same date each month thereafter 
At the end of the hire period, you must return the vehicle to us in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of this agreement. However, if you wish to purchase the vehicle, you must 
pay the Optional Purchase Payment of £24,225.00 and the Purchase Activation Fee of 
£10.00, which will be due 24 months after the start date of this agreement.  
Towards the end of the two-year contract period Mr F contacted MBFS about his options. He 
was told that the final amount would be £24,225. In the event, he chose to return the car at 
the end of the two-year period and so did not make the £24,225 Optional Purchase 
Payment. Because however the final payment figure he was given did not include any other 
sums, he says he should not have to pay any more. MBFS says however that this figure did 
not include the final monthly payment of £300, due in July 2020.  
Mr F referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She broadly agreed with MBFS and said that it had not acted unfairly by seeking 
a further payment of £300. Mr F did not accept her view and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.       
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire purchase agreement said that Mr F should make 24 payments of £300 each. The 
first was due one month after the date of the agreement  that is, on or about 25 August 
2018. He then had to make a further 23 payments. That meant the last of them would be due 
on or about 25 July 2020.
When Mr F asked about the final payment, MBFS gave him the Optional Purchase Payment 
figure. That is, it reminded of the additional payment he would need to make if he wanted to 
have ownership of the car transferred to him. But the monthly payments remained due until 
he made the payment due in July 2020.
It might have been helpful if, in reminding Mr F of the additional payment needed if he 
wanted to keep the car, MBFS had reminded him that he remained liable to make the 
monthly payments. The fact that it didnt, however, does not change his contractual 
obligation to make 24 monthly payments of £300 each  whether or not he also chose to 
keep the car. The hire purchase agreement set out clearly and unambiguously the payments 
that were required and I do not therefore believe that it was unfair of MBFS to seek the 
payment due in July 2020.    
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman