DRN-2544928
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with his motor insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) in respect of a claim he 
made to it following a non-fault accident.
What happened
Mr Ss car was hit, whilst parked and unattended, in June 2020. UKI accepted his claim and 
arranged a hire car for him to use until it had repaired his car. In August the repairs had still 
not been completed, with the car having gone back to the repairer on a number of occasions 
for more work to be done. One day, whilst Mr S was sitting in his parked hire car another 
motorist reversed their car into him. Mr S called UKI, it said that as he had sustained some 
soft tissue damage he could use his legal expenses cover (which it provided) to make a 
claim against the other driver. Mr S was later told this was incorrect advice and the legal 
expenses cover wouldnt respond because the accident involved the hire car, not Mr Ss own 
car. Mr S felt he had lost out on making a personal injury claim because of UKIs error, and 
he felt it was wrong. He had a number of other issues with the claims and the service hed 
received and he made several complaints to UKI.
UKI responded to Mr Ss complaints, many of which it upheld. UKI confirmed feedback, 
where appropriate, had been provided to prevent issues reoccurring, agreed for Mr Ss own 
garage to complete the repair to his car, apologised for various failings and offered a total of 
£825 compensation. Whilst UKI said it had failed Mr S by giving him incorrect advice about 
his legal expenses cover (and took that into account when offering compensation) it didnt 
agree it should be providing that cover. It explained it fell outside the policy terms. But UKI 
did tell Mr S he could make a claim himself directly with the legal service provider it uses. 
Mr S complained to this service. 
Our investigator felt that UKI had failed Mr S. But that it had done enough to try and put 
things right. In respect of the legal expenses claim he explained that if Mr S had been in his 
own car then its possible the second accident wouldnt have happened at all. So he didnt 
think it was fair to take UKIs failure to repair Mr Ss car into account when thinking about 
what should have happened with the legal expenses claim. In that respect he said UKI had 
followed the terms of the policy which was reasonable for it to do.
Mr S maintained his belief that UKIs decision hadnt been fair. He remained upset that, in 
his view, UKI had never really answered his point that he had only still been driving the hire 
car in August because of its failure to repair his car. His complaint was passed for an 
ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Legal expenses
It was unfortunate, but not UKIs fault, that whilst Mr S was using the hire car UKI had 
provided, he was involved in a second accident. I can see this complicated matters and led 
to a situation where UKI told Mr S he couldnt use his legal expenses cover. However, I note 
UKI did give Mr S another option and so he wasnt prevented from making a personal injury 
claim. I know this was frustrating for Mr S, as UKI had initially advised that he could, and he 
believed his policy would, offer cover in this instance. But I think that the ultimate decision, 
that it didnt apply, was correct. 
Its not clear to me why UKI provided Mr S with a hire car, this cover was an optional extra 
for Mr S which he hadnt selected. But, in any event, the hire car wording within the policy 
doesnt extend to offering the legal expenses cover. It says the policy will cover the hire car 
and any claim for injury, loss or damage  it doesnt say any claim for legal expenses. 
Further the term hire car is in bold and given its own meaning. Mr Ss own car in the policy 
is referred to as your car and has its own meaning and the legal expenses cover section 
says it only applies when your car (not a hire car) is involved in an accident.   
UKI, having provided the hire car for Mr S to use, doesnt mean it then automatically 
assumes responsibility for anything that happened whilst Mr S was using the hire car. But 
I understand that Mr S feels that, the policy terms aside, he wouldnt have been in the hire 
car at the time of the accident in August if UKI had repaired his car in a timely manner. 
Rather hed have been in his own car and would, therefore, have had access to the legal 
expenses cover. 
However, its possible that if Mr S had been in his own car the accident may not have 
happened at all, or it may have done but without Mr S suffering injury. Or the resultant 
situation may have been as Mr S believes. But we dont know which situation would most 
likely have occurred. As such, I cant make a decision based on what the most likely 
situation would have been. Unfortunately for Mr S, I simply dont know. 
Here, all I can do is look at what actually happened. And that is Mr S was driving a hire car 
provided by UKI and the legal expenses part of the policy only offers cover where Mr Ss 
own car is involved in an accident. Further UKI had no ongoing liability outside of the policy 
to provide that cover. 
I know it was frustrating for Mr S when UKI, initially having told him he could use the legal 
expenses cover, told him this wasnt available for him. Ive taken that into account below. 
Poor advice and poor service
I know Mr Ss main concern is the situation surrounding the legal expenses cover and I think 
its fair to say he did receive poor advice from UKI in this respect. But that poor advice is only 
one of the issues Mr S is complaining about. The other can be summarised as:
Delay in repairing his car
Poor service and disputes which arose with the hire company
Poor communication and broken promises
The claims remained open and UKI took too long to establish liability for the second 
claim
He was spoken to poorly by a UKI advisor
He incurred costs to buy a new battery as well as screenwash and to clean the car
The named driver incurred taxi costs
For all those issues, including the poor advice about legal expenses, UKI paid Mr S a total of 
£825 compensation. It assured Mr S that feedback, where appropriate, had been provided and agreed to cover or contribute towards any out of pocket costs. It also assured Mr S that 
it had rectified an issue with his no claims discount and explained that the first claim could 
only close once its costs had been recovered. It assured Mr S in its final response of 
22 October 2020 that its work in respect of liability for the second claim was continuing.
Its clear to me that this was a difficult time for Mr S. And I think that much of what happened 
was coloured by the backdrop of the poor repair service he received. It shouldnt have taken 
so long for his car to be repaired, including that it shouldnt have taken so many repair 
attempts to get things right. That was clearly unacceptable. But even taking that into 
account, and considering the failures UKI have made, I think its response to Mr Ss 
complaints have been fair and reasonable. They take into account the distress and 
inconvenience suffered, and assure Mr S that his extra personal costs incurred as a result of 
the failings, to the date of each respective final response, will be considered. In respect of 
the amount of monetary compensation offered, if UKI hadnt offered anything at all, 
I wouldnt have been minded to make it pay more than what it has already offered. And 
I think its apologies, updates and assurance of feedback having been provided also 
acknowledge that it accepts it should have handled things better for Mr S. Im satisfied that it 
would not be fair or reasonable for me to ask it to do anything more. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman