DRN-4046018
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has refused to refund him money he 
lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
Mr H found an advertisement online for cryptocurrency investments. They claimed to be 
specialists in crypto trading and as this was of interest to Mr H, he completed a contact form. 
Initially he did not make an investment as he was concerned with the volume of calls that he 
was receiving.
A few months later a representative of a company which I will call B contacted Mr H and he 
was convinced to install remote access software which would allow B to transfer funds from 
bank accounts Mr H held to Kraken (a Crypto exchange), the funds were used to buy crypto. 
The crypto was then transferred to B. The investments that were made appeared legitimate. 
Mr H made the following payments.
Transaction 
numberDate Payee Amount Running Total
1 23/11/2021 Kraken £600.86 £600.86
2 02/12/2021 Kraken £904.37 £1,505.23
3 02/12/2021 Kraken £4,265.88 £5,771.11
4 13/12/2021 Kraken £6,415.47 £12,186.58
Mr Hs trading account initially showed that he was making a profit, but when he tried to 
withdraw his funds he was unable to do so. B said that he had to deposit more funds in order 
to withdraw what he had in his account. At this point Mr H realised that he had been 
scammed.
Our Investigator considered Mr Hs complaint and thought it should be upheld. She thought 
that during a phone call between Mr H and Lloyds about transaction 1 probing questions 
about the payments should have been asked.
Our Investigator felt that, had Lloyds stepped in at this time and asked relevant questions, it 
was likely Lloyds would have been able to see the payments were most likely part of a scam 
and prevented any further loss. Lloyds disagreed, but did offer a 50% refund on the basis 
that it believed that Mr H contributed to his own loss. Mr H did not agree with this offer and 
the investigator maintained that a full refund was merited, so this complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both Mr 
H and Lloyds set out what happened. What is in dispute is whether Lloyds should refund any 
of the money Mr H lost because of the scam.
Mr H has accepted he authorised Lloyds to make the payments he made to B so the starting 
point here is that Mr H is responsible for making the payments. However, banks and other 
Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial 
loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against 
money laundering.
In this instance transaction 1 was flagged by Lloyds and a call was made. I have listened to 
this call and I can see that questions about the transactions were asked. That said, I dont 
think the questions went far enough. Had Lloyds asked questions such as how Mr H came 
across the investment, was he trading on his own behalf or had someone advised him and 
had he installed remote access software. Lloyds would likely have discovered that the funds 
were intended to be converted to crypto and forwarded to a different trading firm and that 
this was being carried out on his behalf by a third party, using remote access software. This 
has all the hallmarks of a typical crypto scam. So I think Lloyds should have warned Mr H at 
this point that he was likely being scammed.
I think that had Mr H been warned, he would not have carried on with the transactions in 
question. So, but for Lloydss failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial 
harm, Mr H probably wouldnt have continued to make the additional payments.
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their actions. In this case, I do not think that Mr H was to blame for what 
happened and I havent seen anything to suggest that he had foreseen the risk of this sort of 
harm occurring, or indeed any harm. 
Mr H seems to have started with a small sum via another account and had seen his 
investment grow before committing to larger sums, which seems a cautious approach. I do 
not think Mr H could have foreseen the risk that the company he was dealing with was in fact 
scammers and the trading account he was viewing was likely to be a simulation and 
therefore completely false information. I also cant see there were any credible warnings in 
place about B at the time Mr H started making the payments. So even if Mr H had done 
further research on B I think it unlikely that wouldve come across information that wouldve 
been credible enough to have made him aware it was in fact a scam. 
So, in the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis 
that Mr H should share blame for what happened. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Lloyds should:
1) Refund the transactions relating to the scam. Including the transaction fees.
2) Pay simple interest at 8% per year on the above amounts, calculated from the date each 
payment was made, until the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible).My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require 
Lloyds UK Bank Plc, trading as Lloyds Bank, to put matters right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman