DRN-2632381
The complaint
Mr F has complained on behalf of S, a limited company, that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Plc (RSA) has unfairly declined a flood claim under a commercial property insurance policy.   
What happened
Mr F made a claim to RSA in March 2019 after the basement in Ss rental property was 
flooded following heavy rain in the previous week. He said the basement had only recently 
been tanked.
He sent RSA a quote to stop the basement from being flooded again. Ss contractor said the 
basement was being refurbished and the works were required to control and manage rising 
groundwater in the basement.
RSA declined the claim. It said S wasnt covered for flooding caused by a change in the 
water table level.
Mr F brought Ss complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I 
wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
Having seen photos of water on the floor of Ss basement, I can see its not in dispute that 
the basement was flooded. RSA has to settle the claim for flood-related damage unless it 
can show that a policy exclusion applies. So the first question to consider is whether RSA 
acted reasonably in declining the claim by relying on the exclusion for loss or damage 
caused by rising water table levels. 
The only professional evidence Ive seen as to the cause of the flooding comes from Ss 
contractor who said it was associated with the amount of rainfall over recent months as well 
as changes in the water table.
Essentially he was talking about ground water flooding which is when the level of water 
within the rock or soil below the surface of the land (known as the water table) rises for some 
reason such as heavy rainfall. When the water table rises and reaches ground (or in this 
case, basement) level, water starts to come out on the surface. 
Ground water flooding tends to occur after a long period of heavy rain. Ive seen evidence 
that there was heavy rain in the local area in the week before the basement was flooded. Ss 
contractor implied thered been heavy rain in the preceding months. The fact that S's 
property doesnt appear to have been flooded previously suggests to me that the water level 
around and under S's property might have risen generally. I think that was probably why it 
couldn't cope with the heavy rainfall experienced prior to the basement flooding even though 
previously the same level of rainfall might not have been a problem.
I note the basement had already been tanked before the flood and the purpose of tanking is 
to stop water from getting into the basement. The description of the works provided by Ss 
contractor supports the fact that the cause of the damage was a rise in the water table. The 
works involved installing a robust sump pump system with perforated sump liner to provide 
simplified route for water to flow to and a water discharge pipe from the sump pump to the 
existing drainage pipe. A pump system is often considered the most effective way to keep 
ground water out of a property.
When an insurer wants to apply an exclusion and so decline a claim, the onus is on it to 
show, on the balance of probabilities, that the exclusion applies. In this case I think the 
information from Ss contractor is enough to show that the exclusion for a change in the 
water table level probably applies.
Buildings insurance policies come with many different types of cover, exclusions and 
conditions. I dont think the exclusion for rising water table levels is unclear or, particularly for 
commercial property policies, unusual and its clearly set out in the policy documentation.
In conclusion I dont think RSA treated S unfairly in applying this exclusion to defeat its 
claim.
Mr F has referred to guidance on our website about cases of water getting into properties 
due to a rise in the water table where the insurer has disputed that the damage has been 
caused by a flood. Thats not the case here. RSA didnt dispute that that thered been a 
flood. However the policy wording excludes liability for flooding caused by a rise in the level 
of the water table.
RSA accepted my provisional decision. Mr F said the exclusion shouldnt apply as it was 
accepted that heavy rain had contributed to the damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that heavy rain did contribute to the flooding of Ss basement. The water table goes 
up and down depending on the season and the amount of rain or snow. There is a direct 
link. But this doesnt change the fact that RSA didnt offer S cover for this risk under the 
policy. So regardless of the causal link, unfortunately for S, it isnt covered for this claim.
The response from Mr F doesnt change my provisional findings and so they now form part 
of this final decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman