DRN-1440530
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited terminated his agreement.
What happened
In March 2016 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
VWFS.
In June 2019 Mr C fell ill and spent some time in hospital. He missed some payments and 
says that VWFS wrote to him at the wrong address.
In August 2019 VWFS issued a notice of default. The agreement was terminated in 
September 2019.
Mr C is unhappy because VWFS has told him it has terminated the agreement and wants to 
take the car back or he can pay the agreement in full and keep the car. Mr C wants to pay off 
the arrears and pay monthly payments as due.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and said VWFS hadnt done anything wrong 
because it had terminated the agreement in line with the terms and conditions.
Mr C didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the account history. I can see that the account was in arrears in February, 
March and April 2019. In May 2019 a payment was made towards the arrears, but a balance 
remained outstanding.
In May 2019 Mr C advised VWFS that he would be going into hospital. He said this wouldnt 
affect his payments and said he would call again to make payment to clear the outstanding 
arrears. During this call VWFS confirmed Mr Cs contact details with him.
In late May 2019 VWFS tried to contact Mr C by telephone. It also sent letters and emails but 
received no response. There were still arrears on the account.
I can see that Mr C missed further payments on the account and by August 2019 a notice of 
default had been issued asking him to bring the account up to date, which he didnt do.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Mr C was having difficulty maintaining payments throughout 
2019. Although hes said that he didnt receive the letters sent by VWFS, I cant see that he 
told VWFS about a change of contact details until September 2019, by which time the 
agreement had been terminated. Even if Mr C didnt receive any of the letters or emails sent 
by VWFS, I think he was already aware that his account was in arrears, because hed 
spoken to VWFS about this in May 2019 and had promised to bring the account up to date.
I understand that it was a difficult year for Mr C. But taking everything into account, Im 
unable to say that VWFS has done anything wrong. There were arrears on the account 
which remained unpaid and the agreement has been terminated in line with the terms and 
conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman