DRN-3576478
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt paid a claim under their 
travel insurance policy.
All references to Great Lakes include the agents it has appointed to administer claims on its 
behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The policy 
was sold by a broker, who Ill call S, on 27 January 2020. 
Mr and Mrs P were abroad when the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 as a 
pandemic and when the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office advised all 
travellers to return to the UK due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
On 25 March 2020, Mr and Mrs P proactively contacted their airline and were told their 
upcoming return flight to the UK on 29 March 2020 was cancelled. Mr and Mrs P returned to 
the UK on a flight with a different airline on 28 March 2020 and made a claim under their 
policy with Great Lakes for their additional costs. 
Great Lakes said Mr and Mrs Ps claim wasnt covered under Section 2 (Cutting Short Your 
Trip & Trip Interruption) of their policy. It said the only section of the policy which would have 
provided cover was Section 14 (Optional Travel Disruption Extension) but Mr and Mrs P 
hadnt purchased this. Great Lakes said if Mr and Mrs P had a complaint about why S didnt 
advise them to purchase Section 14 when they made an amendment to their policy after 
they bought it, theyd need to contact S. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs P brought a complaint to the attention of our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and said he didnt think Great Lakes had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by declining their claim. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me to decide as the final stage 
in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes and S are two separate and distinct regulated financial businesses, with 
different responsibilities. The Financial Ombudsman Service can only consider a complaint 
about one regulated financial business under each complaint reference number. When 
making my decision about this complaint, Im only considering what Great Lakes is 
responsible for. This is the decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ps claim and the content/wording 
of their policy documents. However, I think its very clear that Mr and Mrs P are also 
unhappy with Ss failure to advise them to purchase optional additional cover, so Ive asked 
our investigator to set up a separate complaint for them about S with our service. 
Industry rules set out by the regulator say insurers should handle claims fairly and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when making my decision 
about Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
I understand the situation which Mr and Mrs P found themselves in was completely 
unexpected and unforeseen. But, no insurance policy  regardless of how the policy is 
branded  covers every situation that a policyholder might find themselves in. An insurer is 
entitled to decide the level of risk which it wishes to accept in return for the payment of a 
premium and an insurer is also entitled to decide what level of cover it is prepared to offer as 
standard and which optional extra risk it is prepared to cover for an additional cost. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P have said the other travellers in their party had their claim 
paid, but this isnt relevant to the outcome of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Other insurers may 
have offered cover to their policyholders on different terms, but this doesnt mean that Great 
Lakes is obliged to pay Mr and Mrs Ps claim. The terms and conditions of the contract which 
Mr and Mrs P hold with Great Lakes outline the extent of Great Lakes obligations to them.
Mr and Mrs P say their trip wasnt curtailed/cut short. But Mr and Mrs P returned early from 
their trip, regardless of how close to their original intended return date this was. So, I think 
Great Lakes was correct to assess their claim under Section 2 of their policy. But Mr and Mrs 
Ps trip wasnt affected by any of the listed, insured reasons which would trigger the cover 
set out in Section 2. In addition, Section 2 says:
What is not covered: 
7. failure by the provider of any part of the booked trip to supply the service or 
transport , unless the event is specifically covered by this policy. You should direct 
any claim in this case to the provider involved.
This means that Mr and Mrs Ps claim isnt covered under Section 2 of their policy. 
Ive considered all the other sections of Mr and Mrs Ps policy, but they have no cover for the 
circumstances they found themselves in (where their airline cancelled their flight in advance 
due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19). Mr and Mrs Ps policy does cover 
repatriation, but only in the event of a medical emergency, which wasnt what happened 
here. And, Section 13 of their policy (End Supplier Failure Cover) only applies in the event of 
an end supplier becoming insolvent or having an administrator appointed, which also wasnt 
what happened here. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt hold cover under Section 14. Ive considered what Mr and Mrs P have 
said about page 11 of their policy terms and conditions. I understand Section 14 isnt 
mentioned on page 11, but I dont think this means their policy is unclear. The table of 
benefits set out at page 7 of the policy clearly outlines the optional sections of cover which 
are available  including Section 14 Optional Travel Disruption Extension. I cant fairly direct 
Great Lakes to assess Mr and Mrs Ps claim under an optional section of cover which they 
didnt buy and didnt pay for. As Ive already explained, Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about Ss 
failure to advise them to buy the optional cover will be considered by our service separately.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P were in a difficult position and had to make a decision to either 
pay to come back to the UK early or to remain abroad until 1 June 2020 when their original 
airline could accommodate their return. I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs P took what they 
thought to be the better of these two options in their circumstances, in what must have been 
a stressful situation where they had limited information and assistance available to them. But 
I also dont think Mr and Mrs P would have been covered under the policy they held if theyd 
remained abroad instead. So, I cant fairly direct Great Lakes to accept this claim on the basis that Mr and Mrs Ps actions reduced Great Lakes potential exposure to a higher claim. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P, but their claim isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of the policy they hold with Great Lakes and there arent any reasonable grounds 
upon which I could fairly direct Great Lakes to pay their claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman