DRN-2374662
The complaint
Ms M says Santander UK Plc misled the court when it obtained a possession order. She 
says this meant she had to sell her property quickly, at a reduced price. She asks for 
compensation.
What happened
Ms Ms husband died in March 2013. She was unable to repay the mortgage. In mid-2014 
Santander applied to court and was granted a possession order. Ms M sold the property in 
July 2015. She says she had to sell at a reduced price to ensure a quick sale, before 
Santander took possession.
Ms M says Santander misled the court about a number of matters when it applied for the 
possession order. She says if it hadnt obtained a possession order, shed have had more 
time to sort out an insurance claim and a claim for Government support. Or she could have 
sold the property at a better price.
Santander said while the statements given to the court didnt contain all the correct 
information, they were completed to the best of its agents knowledge at the time. It said 
when the court made the order it had all the facts relating to the property and Ms Ms 
financial status. 
Our investigator said we cant comment on or overturn a court order. He said Ms M could 
have challenged any inaccuracies in the documents submitted to the court at the time. The 
investigator said we cant reasonably say Santander was wrong to act in accordance with a 
court order.
Ms M said she wanted us to consider whether Santander dealt fairly with the possession 
process, including whether it gave her information about where to get help. She raised a 
number of concerns about how Santander had acted at that time and since.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant comment on or set aside the court order. But I can consider whether Santander acted 
fairly. 
Santander accepts the statements given to the court on its behalf in 2014 did not contain all 
the correct information. It said they were completed in full to the best of our litigation 
agents knowledge. 
I appreciate that Ms M is upset about this. At the same time, I must take into account that 
shed have had an opportunity to challenge what had been said and provide documents as 
part of the court process. While Ms M hasnt elaborated, I understand that she had health 
and personal issues at that time which made dealing with the matter difficult. 
However, based on the evidence Ive received, it seems Ms M had representation, at least at 
one of the court hearings. Her representative offered a defence. So I think Ms M did have an 
opportunity to challenge what was said and provide her own evidence to the court.
It was for the court to decide whether it was happy with the documents and evidence 
provided and whether to grant the order. I dont think I can reasonably say it was unfair or 
wrong for Santander to accept the decision of the court. 
Ms M says she sold the property herself about a year later. She says she sold it for less than 
it was worth to get a quick sale, as she was concerned that Santander would take 
possession. She says if it hadnt obtained a possession order, shed have had more time to 
sort out a better way to repay the mortgage. But, as Ive said, it was for the court to decide 
whether to issue an order for possession. 
Ms M has raised further issues while this complaint has been with us. As our investigator 
explained, I cant look into these issues here as they werent part of the complaint that was 
raised with Santander and brought to us. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman