DRN-3440931
The complaint
The estate of Mr P complains about the service it received from Nationwide Building Society
(Nationwide) when it tried to make an international money transfer.
What happened
The estate of Mr P is represented by Mrs M in bringing this complaint. For ease of reading,
Ill refer to all submissions and actions as having been made by Mrs M.
In February 2021, Mrs M made two international transfers of funds from Mr Ps estate. The
funds were held in an account at Nationwide. The transfers were made on consecutive days
and were both sent to the same beneficiary bank account. The funds were converted from
Sterling into a foreign currency at the point of transfer. Mrs M paid a £20 electronic transfer
fee for each payment. The second payment arrived quickly with no problem. But the first
payment didnt reach the beneficiary, although it debited Mrs Ms account.
Mrs M was concerned and contacted Nationwide several times. Nationwide explained that
the funds had been sent using an intermediary bank (which Ill call H). It said that the normal
timescale for transfers was five working days and that it couldnt do anything until that
timescale had expired. It gave Mrs M a routing number so that she could liaise with the
receiving bank.
Mrs M says she had to keep chasing Nationwide after that to find out what was going on.
Five working days passed and the money still didnt arrive with the beneficiary. Nationwide
then requested a trace of the funds. It said that the trace would be performed by H.
Mrs M was very concerned about what had happened to the funds. And she wasnt happy
with the way Nationwide was dealing with the situation and how long it was taking. She
made a complaint. Nationwide said it couldnt have raised the trace request any earlier. It
said it was reliant on receiving information from both H and the receiving bank. It said it
would chase H every five to seven working days for updates, but there was no way of
speeding up the process.
Nationwide acknowledged that Mrs M had been told incorrectly when she called one day that
the trace was being requested that day. That was wrong as the trace wasnt due to be
requested until the following working day. Nationwide apologised for this. But it said it hadnt
made any other mistakes and that it was working with H to find out why the funds hadnt
reached the recipient.
A few days later, the funds were returned to Mrs Ms account. This was around three weeks
after they had been debited. Nationwide wrote to Mrs M to say that the funds had been
returned by the beneficiary bank because the beneficiary account details werent valid. The
amount returned to Mrs M was £963.46 less than the amount which had been debited.
Nationwide said this was because the funds had been converted back into Sterling in line
with its terms and conditions. It said the exchange rate used on the incoming funds was
different from the rate used on the outgoing payment. It said this was out of its control.
Nationwide said it couldnt explain why one payment had reached the beneficiary and the
other hadnt. But it said it had processed the payment correctly and didnt think it needed to
do anything else.
Mrs M wasnt happy with Nationwides response and brought the complaint to this service. I 
issued a provisional decision on 23 March 2022. Both parties responded and confirmed that 
they have nothing further to add, so Im now making a final decision on this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen anything which changes my mind about the appropriate outcome here. So Im 
going to uphold this complaint in the way I indicated in my provisional decision. My reasons 
are set out below.
Its not disputed that Mrs M input the same beneficiary account details for both transfers. Its
also accepted that these were the correct details, otherwise neither payment would have
reached the beneficiary. So its agreed that Mrs M didnt make any mistakes here and isnt
responsible for the first payment failing to reach the beneficiary. But the estate she
represents is out of pocket by £963.46.
Mrs M has provided evidence that the intended beneficiary raised a complaint with their bank
(the beneficiary bank, which Ill call B). The complaint wasnt upheld as B confirmed that it
didnt receive an international payment and didnt reject a payment. It suggested that the
investigation should be taken up by the sending bank (Nationwide).
Nationwide says it submitted both payments correctly. Ive seen screenshots of the
transaction submissions for both payments, which confirm that the same beneficiary account
details were used for both payments. So I havent seen anything to suggest that Nationwide
input the transfer incorrectly.
Nationwide says the most plausible explanation is that something went wrong with the 
intermediary bank overseas. This does seem likely from the limited evidence thats available. 
Mrs M provided the correct account details, but B says it didnt receive or reject the payment. 
This does suggest that something went wrong in between. And the information from H 
appears to show the sender of the returned funds as Hs overseas arm, not B.
I understand that Nationwides position is that it hasnt made a mistake here so it shouldnt 
have to reimburse Mrs M. But, even if Nationwide hasnt done anything wrong, it is in the 
best place to help resolve the dispute. Something clearly went wrong here in the payment 
chain. If it wasnt directly caused by Nationwide, it appears to have been a problem with the
intermediary. The intermediary was appointed by Nationwide and thats not something Mrs
M had any knowledge of or control over. So Nationwide is in the best position to investigate
further or resolve things with the intermediary.
The role of this service is to resolve complaints and to decide them by reference to what is
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. Here, Im satisfied that Nationwide
is the party which can take the steps needed to resolve the problem and bring about a fair
outcome. So I think it should reimburse the £963.46 which was deducted on 12 March
2021 when the funds were returned to Mrs Ms account, with interest. I think that Nationwide
should also reimburse the transfer fee of £20, so that the estate isnt out of pocket.
But Im not going to ask Nationwide to pay compensation to Mrs M for distress andinconvenience. I do appreciate that the situation has been very stressful for her and has
caused her a lot of trouble and worry. But, as I cant safely conclude that Nationwide is
responsible for that, I dont think it would be fair to ask it to pay compensation. Im asking it
to reimburse the estate, for the reasons Ive explained. But I dont think it needs to do more
than that.
I understand that Mrs M was unhappy with the service she received from Nationwide while
she was trying to find out what had happened to the funds. But I dont think Nationwide
made any mistakes in that respect, other than telling Mrs M that the trace had been
requested one working day before it was due to happen. It has already apologised for that
and I dont think it needs to do any more in that respect.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Nationwide Building Society should:
pay £963.46 to Mrs M, together with simple interest on this sum at 8% a year, from
12 March 2021 until the date of settlement; and
refund the transfer fee of £20.00.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman