DRN-2177670
The complaint
Ms G complains that NewDay Ltd unfairly reduced her credit card account limit which 
caused financial difficulties.
What happened
Ms G says she made a large payment towards her credit card debt but NewDay then 
reduced her credit limit. She says that was unfair and caused her financial difficulties and 
meant her account was in the red. Ms G says she was unable to pay priority bills as a result 
of what took place.
NewDay says it didnt make a mistake and acted in line with account terms and conditions. It 
says it reduced the credit limit, but Ms G still had an available balance to use. NewDay says 
pending transactions meant Ms G did exceed the credit limit for a short period but it didnt 
charge any interest or report that to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs). It says Ms G 
can check with the CRAs the information it holds about her and the information it took into 
account when it made this decision.
Ms G brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought NewDay was entitled to reduce a credit limit in line with the account terms and 
conditions. And that Ms G was left with an available balance to use. The investigator 
accepted that there were pending transactions which meant Ms G exceeded her credit limit 
but didnt think there was any financial impact caused by that. The investigator also thought 
NewDay had fairly offered financial support to Ms G if she required it.
Ms G doesnt accept that view and says there wasnt any adverse information on her credit 
file just some missed payments and says NewDay didnt consider the pending transactions 
which it ought to have told her about.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that NewDay has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and I dont require it do anything further in the circumstances of it. I realise Ms G 
will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Ms G would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions say that NewDay can reduce a 
credit limit. Im satisfied that is what took place here that NewDay made a commercial 
decision to reduce Ms Gs credit limit and that it considered fairly its obligations as a 
responsible lender. I appreciate Ms G says that decision was unfair, but I can see that she 
accepts there were missed payments recorded on her credit file for a different lender. So, I 
dont think NewDay made a mistake or acted unfairly by reducing the credit limit.
Im satisfied that the reduction meant that Ms G did have a small available balance to use 
but I accept that the pending transactions took the account balance over the credit limit for a 
short period. I appreciate Ms G says NewDay ought to have told her about those and I agree 
that it could have done so. But I dont think there was any significant impact caused by 
authorising those pending transactions as I can see NewDay didnt charge interest or a fee 
and didnt report any adverse information the CRAs. 
Overall, Im satisfied NewDay hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly and Im also satisfied 
that it fairly offered to speak to Ms G about any financial difficulties.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman