DRN-3819490
The complaint
The executor representing the estate of Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading 
as Barclaycard lent irresponsibly to Mrs S.
What happened
In 2021, Mrs S passed away and her executor was appointed to her estate. When going 
through paperwork relating to Mrs Ss finances, the executor found two credit card debts to 
Barclaycard which she considered shouldnt have been lent to Mrs S. She says Mrs S was 
vulnerable and the bank didnt carry out sufficient checks before agreeing to lend to her. 
Barclaycard responded to the executor. It said the accounts were opened in 1998 and 2004, 
and each defaulted in 2009. It said due to the amount of time that had passed since the 
accounts were opened, the regulators rules meant the complaint had been raised too late 
for Barclaycard to be able to investigate further. 
The executor didnt accept Barclaycards response, so referred her complaint to our service. 
Since then, another ombudsman at the Financial Ombudsman Service has considered 
whether we can consider this complaint and has explained to both parties why he thought 
the complaint was brought in time. So, an investigator then looked into the substance of the 
executors complaint and considered whether or not Barclaycard had lent responsibly. 
Barclaycard approved Mrs S first credit card application in August 1998 and set a credit limit 
of £5,500, which remained unchanged for the duration the account was active. Mrs S fell 
behind with her repayments in 2008 and her balance exceeded the credit limit. By mid-2009, 
Barclaycard had recorded the account in default and transferred it to a third party. 
Barclaycard approved Mrs S second credit card application in April 2004 and set a credit 
limit of £5,200, which was reduced to £1,800 in November 2007. Mrs S fell behind with her 
repayments in 2008 and by late-2009, Barclaycard had recorded the account in default and 
transferred it to a third party. 
The investigator explained that the rules and regulations that are in place today to protect 
consumers from irresponsible lending, including vulnerable consumers, didnt exist at the 
time Mrs S applied for her Barclaycard credit cards. He didnt think it was fair to say that 
Barclaycard had lent irresponsibly because he had not seen enough information about 
Mrs S circumstances and the checks Barclaycard carried out at the time of her applications.
The executor replied to the investigators assessment and provided some more information 
about Mrs S circumstances.  This included a payslip from 2001 showing Mrs S took home 
£1,025 in October; details of a secured loan used to consolidate several unsecured debts in 
February 2002; and her mortgage statement from 2007. But this information wasnt enough 
to persuade the investigator to change his assessment  because he still would need to 
know what Barclaycard knew about Mrs S circumstances at the time of her applications.
As the investigator didnt think Mrs S complaint should be upheld and the executor didnt 
agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint. That said, Mrs S applied 
for her Barclaycard credit cards before much of the rules and regulations that were 
introduced to protect consumers from irresponsible lending. So, Ive drawn on the law and 
what good industry practice would have looked like at the time. And I think that included 
lending in such a way that would not cause undue repayment difficulty.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, Ive made my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is 
more than likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. And as more than two decades separate Mrs S first credit card application 
and the complaint (and almost two decades separate the second), the evidence is inevitably 
incomplete. 
Having done all of that, I think the evidence available is not enough to uphold this complaint 
 Ill explain why.
The executor has provided some information to show Mrs S wider financial position from 
around the time she applied for her Barclaycard credit cards. The executor provided a copy 
of a secured loan agreement from February 2002 which detailed a number of Mrs S 
creditors this new loan would consolidate. It references Mrs S first Barclaycard credit card 
and shows she owed £1,365  but at that time, the credit card was run by a different lender, 
which Barclaycard later acquired in 2008. So, I dont think it is reasonable to hold 
Barclaycard responsible for the decision to grant Mrs S the credit card she took out in 1998 
with a £5,500 limit. I think it also shows that when Mrs S applied for her Barclaycard credit 
card in 2004, she was a new customer. So, Barclaycard would not have had the same level 
of insight on how Mrs S ran the credit card account she had open in 1998 in comparison to 
an existing Barclaycard customer.
Barclaycard has told us that it hasnt retained the application data for the credit card it 
granted in 2004. I find that unsurprising given the length of time that has passed and noting 
the closure of the account predates this complaint by some 12 years. The executor has 
provided a list of Mrs S active credit and store card accounts and their credit limits from 
around the time  but no information about her indebtedness to the various lenders or how 
Mrs S had been maintaining the accounts. 
The executor also has provided a list of Mrs S mortgage and secured lending and Ive seen 
that she remortgaged in December 2004, increasing her mortgage debt by £52,000. Of 
course, it doesnt necessarily follow that she used this new borrowing to repay her existing 
debts  she had credit and store card accounts with limits (balances unknown) totalling 
around £24,000 and the £21,000 secured consolidation loan I referenced above.
It is important that I dont hold Barclaycard to the standards that apply today and which didnt 
at the time of her application in April 2004. From the information the executor has provided, 
Ive learnt that Mrs S was employed and earning £18,500 a year; several different lenders 
considered Mrs S good for revolving credit and store card accounts with credit limits ranging 
between £700 and £8,000; and that Mrs S had remained eligible (and sufficiently 
creditworthy) for a £85,000 mortgage with a high street lender eight months later. So, on the 
available information, I think on balance it was reasonable for Barclaycard to have agreed 
Mrs S credit card account application with a £5,200 limit in 2004.In summary, I dont find Barclaycard responsible for the decision to grant Mrs S the credit 
card she took out in 1998 and I think it was reasonable for Barclaycard to have agreed 
Mrs S new credit card account application in 2004.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman