DRN-3307901
The complaint
The trustees of the Mr E trust complain Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) unfairly 
declined a terminal illness claim. 
What happened
In 2009 Mr E took out a life and terminal illness policy with Aviva. The policy was placed in 
trust (the Mr E trust) and offered an index linked sum assured of £500,000 if Mr E passed 
away or met the policys terminal illness definition of an advanced or rapidly progressing 
incurable illness where, in the opinion of an attending consultant at a UK hospital and our 
Chief Medical Officer, the person covered is expected to die within 12 months and before the 
relevant cover end date. The policy cover end date was 2 June 2019. 
Unfortunately, in 2010 Mr E was diagnosed with colon cancer. He received treatment over 
the years, including chemotherapy and surgery. On 24 May 2018 Mr Es consultant 
oncologist Dr D wrote to Mr Es GP. Dr D said hed discussed treatment options with Mr E 
that day. That Mr Es life expectancy was probably about twelve months or so. And Mr E 
would receive a further twelve weeks of his current chemotherapy then be reviewed. 
In January 2019 Mr E made a terminal illness claim to Aviva. Aviva asked Dr D for a medical 
report. Dr Ds report of 18 January 2019 said Mr E had no further surgical treatment options, 
he had completed chemotherapy in September 2018 with a partial response but a scan in 
December 2018 showed significant disease progression, and Mr E now had limited 
treatment options. Dr D confirmed Mr E had restarted chemotherapy but might not respond 
to it. Dr D said hed told Mr E in May 2018 that his life expectancy was about twelve months, 
and Dr D thought Mr E met Avivas criteria. 
Avivas Chief Medical Officer (CMO) said Mr E had a long history of cancer and previously 
responded well to treatment. They noted disease progression in December 2018 but said 
Mr E was restarting chemotherapy, and an alternative chemotherapy was a further option if 
Mr E stopped responding to his current chemotherapy  Mr Es life expectancy would then 
be a few months. Avivas CMO thought that while Mr E kept responding to chemotherapy, 
there was more than a 50% chance hed live beyond the cover end date. In February 2019 
Aviva declined Mr Es claim, as it didnt think he was expected to pass away before the cover 
end date of 2 June 2019, as required by the policys terminal illness definition. 
Sadly, Mr E passed away in November 2019. A few months later, the policy trustees asked 
Aviva to reconsider the terminal illness claim, as they thought Aviva would have paid if Mr E 
had claimed in May 2018. The trustees thought Dr Ds opinion of January 2019 was that 
Mr E had a life expectancy of six months. They provided Dr Ds further opinion that the 
alternative chemotherapy wasnt a realistic option for Mr E, as it wouldnt materially improve 
his life expectancy and he needed a break from chemotherapy. 
Aviva said if Mr E had claimed in May 2018, it would have waited for his response to 
treatment. Aviva didnt agree Dr D had said Mr Es life expectancy was six months. Aviva 
said Mr E was starting further treatment, and his life expectancy was likely less than twelve 
months but with a reasonable possibility he would live beyond the cover end date. It also 
pointed out Mr E lived beyond both the cover end date and the prognosis given in May 2018. 
The trustees contacted our Service. They said life expectancy was difficult to predict, and 
Mr Es treatment options were palliative and only expected to extend his life for a couple of 
months. They thought it was irrelevant when Mr E passed away as his claim should be 
decided on the facts at the time he claimed, and these were that Mr E had a valid claim in 
May 2018 when Dr D said his life expectancy was twelve months. They thought Dr Ds 
January 2019 report said Mr Es life expectancy was six months or less, dated from Dr Ds 
consultation with Mr E in December 2018. Therefore Dr D, as Mr Es treating consultant, 
expected Mr E to pass away before the policys cover end date of 2 June 2019. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that, based on the medical evidence, 
Aviva had fairly declined the terminal illness claim.
The trustees disagreed. They reiterated some of their previous comments and said Aviva 
hadnt examined or treated Mr E, and Mr Es previous response to treatment didnt 
determine his future response. They pointed out the December 2018 scan showed disease 
progression and Dr Ds opinion that Mr E might not respond to the current chemotherapy. 
They thought the medical evidence showed a deteriorating situation, with Dr D confirming 
there were no treatment options for Mr E. The trustees said Aviva had no evidence for its 
conclusion Mr E had a more than 50% chance of living beyond the cover end date. 
Our Investigator didnt change his view. The trustees maintained Aviva declined the claim 
unfairly and against the spirit of the policy. As an agreement couldnt be reached, this 
complaint came to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying how sorry I am to hear of Mr E passing away. I realise this 
complaint has been made under very upsetting and difficult circumstances for his family, and 
I offer them my condolences. 
I acknowledge the trustees say this was a deteriorating situation for Mr E, and his previous 
response to treatment didnt determine his future response. But whats disputed here is 
whether it was fair for Aviva to conclude Mr Es life expectancy didnt meet the policys 
definition for the purposes of a terminal illness claim. For clarity, that definition is an 
advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness where, in the opinion of an attending 
consultant at a UK hospital and our Chief Medical Officer, the person covered is expected to 
die within 12 months and before the relevant cover end date.  The cover end date was 
2 June 2019.
The trustees say Mr E had a valid claim in May 2018 and believe Aviva would have paid 
then if Mr E had claimed - theyve explained Mr E didnt want to accept the reality of his 
situation at that time. But its still the case that Mr E didnt make a terminal illness claim until 
January 2019, which Aviva declined based on the evidence presented as part of that claim. 
What I need to decide is whether Aviva fairly declined this terminal illness claim. To think 
about this, Ive considered the medical evidence available when Aviva made its claim 
decision.  
Ive seen that Dr Ds letter of May 2018 says treatment options had been discussed with Mr E, and that other treatments in the form of an alternative type of chemotherapy or an 
antibody treatment werent necessarily suitable or available to Mr E, and in any case would 
only extend his life expectancy by about two months or so. Dr D said Mr Es life expectancy 
was difficult to predict but there was no sign of visceral disease so it would probably be in 
the order of around 12 months or so. But if Mr E were to develop visceral disease and not 
have further chemotherapy then the average prognosis is about six months. Dr D noted Mr E 
would be treated with a further twelve weeks of his current chemotherapy then be reviewed. 
And if Mr E was stable or showed a partial response, a treatment break would be offered. 
So Dr D acknowledges Mr Es life expectancy is difficult to predict, a point the trustees have 
highlighted to our service. Dr D does go on to say Mr Es life expectancy is twelve months. In 
isolation, this would put Mr Es life expectancy as a matter of days before the policys cover 
end date. But it wouldnt be reasonable to consider that twelve month prognosis in isolation, 
because Dr D casts a significant amount of uncertainty over it by including the caveat that 
Mr Es life expectancy is difficult to predict and using the words probably, around, and or 
so. And Dr D is clear that Mr E would have further chemotherapy and his response would be 
reviewed. Over the following months, Mr E did have further chemotherapy. 
Therefore, I think its fair to say that in May 2018 there remained significant uncertainty about 
Mr Es life expectancy, and it was clear he would have further treatment with the aim of 
improving things for him in some way. Based on this, I dont think its unreasonable for Aviva 
to say it would have waited for Mr Es response to treatment, if Mr E had claimed at this time.  
But as I say, Mr E in fact made his claim in January 2019 and Dr D provided Aviva with a 
report that same month. The report noted Mr E sought a second opinion two years earlier in 
March 2017, and the second opinion was that Mr Es life expectancy was six months without 
treatment but this could be prolonged by about two years with chemotherapy. Dr Ds report 
confirmed Mr E completed chemotherapy in September 2018 with a partial response, but his 
December 2018 scan showed significant disease progression. That Mr E now had limited 
treatment options. That Mr E had restarted his current palliative chemotherapy, though he 
might not respond to it. And Dr D noted clinical trials of an alternative chemotherapy showed 
it increased life expectancy by about six weeks, with life expectancy generally accepted as 
about six months with that particular treatment. Dr D said Mr E would complete his current 
chemotherapy then be reviewed. Regarding life expectancy, Dr D said in May 2018 I 
did tell [Mr E] at the time that my feeling was that his prognosis was in the order of about 12 
months and as such I would say on that basis he would fulfil the criteria [Aviva] have set 
out.
The trustees argue this report gave Mr E a life expectancy of six months. But the six months 
life expectancy referred to is in relation to treatment with an alternative chemotherapy. Mr E 
wasnt treated with this alternative chemotherapy. So I dont agree this report gave Mr E a 
life expectancy of six months, or that it gave his life expectancy as things stood in 
January 2019. Instead, Im satisfied this report restated the uncertain twelve month life 
expectancy Mr E was given in May 2018, which was a time when more chemotherapy 
treatment was planned. And Dr D confirmed Mr E was having further chemotherapy in 
January 2019 and would then be reviewed.
In addition, I note this report mentions the second opinion Mr E was given in March 2017, 
which was that Mr Es life expectancy was six months without treatment but this could be 
prolonged by a further two years with chemotherapy. It is the case that Mr E did go on to 
have chemotherapy. Therefore, the second opinion gives Mr E a life expectancy beyond the 
cover end date.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude Mr E 
wasnt expected to pass away within twelve months and before the cover end date, as required by the policys terminal illness definition. Therefore, Im satisfied it was fair for Aviva 
to have declined Mr Es terminal illness claim on that basis. I realise this isnt the answer the 
trustees hoped for, but Im not asking Aviva to do anything further here. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E as trustee of 
the Mr E trust to accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman