DRN-1731571
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the cash settlement esure Insurance Limited has offered for her car, 
under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S car was involved in an accident. So, she needed to make a claim for the damage to 
her vehicle, under her motor insurance policy. esure accepted Mrs S claim, and explained 
the vehicle was to be written off. It has offered a cash settlement amount of £4,017 for the 
car.
Mrs S has said she doesnt think this cash settlement is fair. She has explained that her car 
was in a very good condition at the time of the loss. And she felt an amount of £5,000 would 
be a more reasonable settlement, given the vehicle she owned. Because Mrs S didnt agree 
with esures valuation, she referred her complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mrs S policy 
explained that it would provide a settlement based on the market value of the car.  And he 
felt esure had acted in line with this when offering £4,017 as settlement. 
Our investigator said esure had used four motor trade guides, which detail market value of a 
vehicle, and used an average of the valuations these gave when it arrived at the settlement 
figure. So, he considered this to be a fair way to decide the settlement for Mrs S loss.
Mrs S didnt agree. She felt that one of the valuations esure had considered was too low and 
should be disregarded when looking at what a fair value would be.
As Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators view, this complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Im satisfied the valuation esure 
arrived at was fair in the circumstances. So, Im not going to require it to pay any more than 
it has already offered in settlement of the claim. 
Ive reviewed Mrs S policy documentation. And I can see the policy booklet does explain 
that esure will pay the market value of the relevant car, when looking to settle a claim, as is 
the case with many other motor insurance policies. 
The market value of the car is the amount the car was worth, immediately before the car was 
deemed beyond economical repair by the insurer. When coming to this figure several factors 
are considered, such as the age and condition of the car, as well as the mileage the car had 
completed. This value is generally arrived at using motor trade guides  as Mrs S policy explains. This 
is because it is an independent way of arriving at the cars value, based on nationwide selling 
prices of a particular vehicle. And because it takes into account factors such as the condition 
and mileage of the vehicle when sold, it is a good indicator of the cars market value. 
esure did consider the motor trade guides when coming to the valuation of £4,017. The trade 
guides varied in value  with the highest valuation coming out at £5,025 and the lowest 
£2,925. So, esure took an average of the four figures the trade guides provided. Im satisfied 
this is a fair approach for esure to take. It is in line with the policy terms in Mrs S policy. And 
esure had ensured it has taken into account all figures  providing a settlement within these 
ranges. So, I do think esures offer of settlement at £4,017 is fair. 
Mrs S has said she thinks a fairer valuation would be provided by disregarding the lowest 
figure arrived at. But I dont think it would be reasonable for me to disregard the lower figure 
 given it is based on nationwide sales of Mrs S vehicle. But, even if I did disregard the 
figure, it wouldnt alter the outcome of this complaint. The settlement offer esure has 
provided still falls within the ranges given in the remaining valuations. So, it wouldnt be fair 
to ask it to increase its offer  when this is in line with the relevant guides. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that esure Insurance Limiteds offer of £4,017 is fair 
and reasonable. So esure Insurance Limited should pay this amount to Mrs S, if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman