DRN-3117380
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited closed the group private 
medical insurance scheme which they belonged to. They have also complained about a 
premium increase in 2019.
Mr and Mrs C are represented by Mr J.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C were members of a group scheme which provided annually renewable cover 
for the employees and their families of a large organisation which I will refer to as B.
AXA PPP no longer have documentation from the time of the sale in 1991 but have 
confirmed that Mr and Mrs C were enrolled in the Premier plan both before and after Bs 
scheme was closed in August 2019.
In Mr and Mrs Cs renewal document in 2019 AXA PPP explained:
You may have noticed weve removed reference to the organisation referred to on previous 
membership certificates. Weve done this as your membership is with AXA PPP healthcare and is 
now provided independently of any relationship you have, or have had with that organisation. This 
cover is an individual contract of insurance between you and AXA PPP healthcare and this is for 
information only which in no way affects your cover
On behalf of Mr and Mrs C, Mr J has questioned whether the scheme was closed legally. If it 
was, he questions the ethics of closing the scheme after 29 years as well as the timing and 
the method of the closure of the scheme. He said that the arrangement was that the 
members were in the scheme for life or as long as they wanted. Further he argues 
documentation from 1991 shows that if they left they should have received a 15% discount 
at each renewal.
Our investigator didnt find that AXA PPP had done anything wrong overall so didnt uphold 
the complaint. Mr J remained unhappy. He didnt feel that all the grievance areas had be 
addressed. In particular, and I summarise:
the scheme closure should have been communicated more clearly
B should have been included in the decision to close the scheme
the 2019 premium increase was unfair and the real cause of the increase not 
explained
Mr and Mrs C should have been entitled to a 15% discount
I issued a provisional decision setting out my findings on 14 September 2021. I said as 
follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr J, who represents Mr and Mrs C has very strong feelings about the actions
of AXA PPP and the impact that this has had on them and others. However I must make
clear that this service considers individual complaints rather that the processes of financial
businesses generally as we do not regulate those businesses. Here I am considering the
specific complaint of Mr and Mrs C, although I accept that that some of my findings are likely
to read across to other members.
Mr J has provided detailed submissions to support his arguments, all of which I have read
with care. But I trust that neither he nor Mr and Mrs C will take as a discourtesy the fact that I
focus on what I consider the crux of this complaint  the closure of the scheme and the
premium increase in 2019.
The scheme closure
I accept that Mr and Mrs C were unaware that the scheme had closed in 2019 until Mr C
became aware of this in a newsletter in September 2020. However in their 2019 renewal
letter they were advised that their policy was now being provided independently of any
relationship with the organisation referred to on previous membership certificates. I agree
that this may not have had the prominence that Mr and Mrs C would have liked, but
ultimately Im satisfied that AXA PPP was entitled to take the commercial decision to close
the scheme.
AXA PPP has explained that it reviewed arrangements where pooled pricing arrangements
were based on historic arrangements with employers. It explained that these groups were
typically made up of pensioners and as membership naturally declined arrangements that
are pool priced are liable to volatile price increases that can make premiums uncompetitive
and also restrict product options. I find this is a reasonable explanation as to the decision it
took. Nevertheless I would be concerned if having decided to close the scheme Mr and Mrs
C were not given the option to continue to have private medical healthcare cover with AXA
PPP. But the evidence before me shows that is not the case here.
Further I dont find that AXA PPP were obliged to inform Bs successor that the scheme was
closing. The successor had no involvement in setting up the scheme and Im satisfied that as
an ERVG (Experience Related Voluntary Group) premiums are paid by individual members
who are also issued with all documentation.
The premium
In reality this part of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is linked to the closure of the scheme. It
seems that they view its closure as leading to a substantial increase in their annual premium.
I can see that they did experience a premium increase in 2019 and 2020. AXA PPP have
explained though that premiums may have increased under the pool pricing arrangement
had it still been active, this is of course true. Age is an important factor here as are claims
and the costs of medical treatments. These are legitimate risk factors for an insurer to take
into consideration when pricing policies. Ive considered the increases applied to Mr and Mrs 
Cs premiums but as there is no evidence to show that Mr and Mrs C were treated less
favourably than anyone else in their situation, I cant say they have been treated unfairly
here.
Mr J argues on behalf of Mr and Mrs C that they should have been afforded a 15% discount.
He bases this submission on a document entitled subscription and membership information
for (B) staff. This document says:If you leave your employment
Your membership of the plan will cease on your last day of employment with (B). PPP will
write to you at your home address offering to rearrange your cover as an individual
subscriber to one of their UK plans at a special discount rate of 15% off the normal rates if
you continue to pay your subscription by direct debit.
Im satisfied that the offer was made to members leaving B who wished to continue on an
individual plan. AXA PPP say this didnt mean that such individuals would continue to
receive the discount; rather that it was an introductory offer. Ive considered this with care
but I cant conclude that the offer was intended to be ongoing. I take into account too that the
insurance contract is for 12 months and premiums can be revised on renewal.
Nevertheless AXA PPP have now, somewhat belatedly, shown that Mr and Mrs C have in
fact benefitted from what is in effect greater than a 15% discount in 2019 and 2020. This
has been accepted by their representative. This being so and having considered all the
evidence and representations before me I cant say that AXA PPP have treated Mr and Mrs
C unfairly overall.
For the reasons given I didnt intend to uphold the complaint but asked for any further 
comments or evidence before making my final decision.
AXA PPP had nothing further to add. Mr J did not accept my provisional findings and made 
several points regarding the closure of the scheme in response. In relation to this complaint 
these included that AXA PPP should have written to Mr and Mrs C to advise them about the 
closure of the scheme giving reasons and should have involved the parent organisation, B. 
He felt that AXA PPP should have explained the impact to Mr and Mrs C of the ending of the 
pooled pricing arrangement and the consequence that this may have on their premium. He 
argued that the scheme closure was poorly managed and poorly communicated, leaving Mr 
and Mrs C without appropriate information to make an informed decision about the 2019 
transfer and the 2020 renewal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have re-visited all the submissions made which pertain to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive 
carefully considered the representations following my provisional decision but I have seen no 
new points or evidence which persuade me to draw different conclusions regarding either 
the closure of the scheme or the premium charged. 
It is argued that Mr and Mrs C were not informed adequately and made decisions on policy 
renewals without basic information that they had a right to know. 
It is not in dispute that AXA PPP have regulatory obligations, which includes a duty to pay 
due regard to the interests of its customers and to treat them fairly. It must also pay due 
regard to information needs, and communicate information in a way which is clear, fair and 
not misleading. Although I dont disagree that the communication regarding the scheme 
closure could have had more prominence, I dont find that AXA PPP acted in a way that was 
contrary to these principles. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt take out a new policy following the closure of the scheme but were 
enrolled on the same plan. Their premiums increased substantially in 2019 and again in 
2020 and its clear Mr C was alarmed by this. Mr Cs renewal notices properly advised that you may be able to get the insurance cover 
you want at a better price if you shop around. The renewal notice also encourages 
members to check whether the policy is still suitable. Mr C did make enquiries and AXA PPP 
explained that his premium would no longer be impacted by the pool. However I cant see 
that any guarantees were given as to premiums going forward. Im not persuaded that there 
was any mis-communication or mis-advice when Mr C was renewing the policy. And as I 
said in my provisional findings, I dont find that Mr and Mrs C were treated unfairly or 
differently to how anyone else in their situation would have been treated. Im not persuaded 
by anything now said to change that finding.
Several submissions have been made by Mr and Mrs Cs representative about how AXA 
PPP should have dealt with the closure of the scheme. These include that AXA PPP should 
have written a single-issue communication to Mr and Mrs C about the scheme closure. My 
function is to consider this complaint - I am not able to tell AXA PPP how to operate or tell it 
to change its processes. Ultimately Im satisfied AXA PPP was entitled to take the 
commercial decision it did regarding the closure of the scheme. I appreciate that this will 
come as unwelcome news, but in all the circumstances I dont find that AXA PPP have 
treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision and above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman