DRN-4240578
The complaint
Miss F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont reimburse two payments sent from 
her account which she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it 
again here. Instead, Ill provide an overview and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Miss F received a call from someone purporting to be from Monzo. They said theyd 
called in relation to fraudulent transactions on her account. Miss F states the caller 
already knew some of her details, like her Monzo card information. She explains that 
two weeks prior, shed clicked on a link in a text message and entered her card 
details to arrange redelivery. But it was a phishing scam. 
Miss F states she couldnt see the transactions the caller had mentioned but was told 
that the fraudster had made attempts. The caller asked her to move money from her 
savings pot into the main account to safeguard the funds. Miss F says the call 
ended and later that day she received a similar call  this time from a different bank 
she also has an account with. She says that at that point she noticed she couldnt log 
on to her Monzo app. 
The next day, Miss F contacted both banks. When she checked her Monzo account, 
she noticed two transactions to a retailer  £249 and £30  had debited her account. 
Monzo declined to refund the money and said it wasnt possible for the transactions 
to have been made without her authorisation. It later clarified that the transactions 
were completed through Apple Pay on another device, but Miss F had approved the 
setting up of Apple Pay on that device through her Monzo app.  
Miss F referred her complaint to our service and said she didnt approve anything on 
her app at the time as she couldnt access it. Our investigator concluded that there 
were discrepancies in the sequence of events as described by Miss F. As such, they 
couldnt fairly conclude that the transactions were considered unauthorised under the 
relevant regulations. Miss F didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything that has happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read 
and considered everything thats been provided. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for the following reasons:
Where theres a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I must make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), broadly speaking, 
Miss F isnt liable for payments she hasnt authorised, unless she failed with intent or 
gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account or keep her personalised 
security details safe. And Miss F is liable for payments shes authorised. 
Generally, Monzo can hold Miss F liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that she made or authorised the transactions 
herself.
Monzo has explained that to add Apple Pay on an Apple device, in addition to 
entering the associated cards information on that device, an approval is also 
required. This can either be in the form of a One Time Passcode (OTP) which is sent 
to the customers registered phone number, or approval via their Monzo app. Monzo 
has provided technical evidence which shows that the Apple Pay token that was 
used to make the disputed transactions was approved through Miss Fs Monzo app 
on her device. So, as far as authentication goes, Im satisfied that the disputed 
transactions were authenticated correctly given that the Apple Pay token that was 
used was set up using Miss Fs credentials.
But the PSRs say that authentication isnt, on its own, enough for Monzo to hold 
Miss F liable. I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that she, or 
someone acting with her authority, consented to the transactions being made. To 
decide whether Miss F  or someone acting with her authority  made the 
transactions, Ive carefully considered what shes told us about what happened. And 
Ive considered that in conjunction with a review of the available evidence.
Miss F submits that she didnt approve the Apple Pay set up on her Monzo app. She 
says she was unable to log on to the app at the relevant time. Miss F has also said 
the caller only asked her if she used Apple Pay  there was nothing said about 
setting up or approving a new token. The difficulty I have with Miss Fs submission is 
that the technical evidence shows that the approval happened on her device. And 
shes confirmed no one else had access to her device. 
The evidence shows that the in-app approval happened at 14:37 on the day in 
question. But, according to the call log information provided, Miss Fs conversation 
with the individual purporting to be from Monzo ended nearly three-and-a-half hours 
earlier. We also know that a text confirming that Apple Pay had been set up was sent 
to Miss Fs phone at the time, and she confirmed receiving it when questioned by the 
investigator. Yet, given the circumstances that have been put forward, Miss F doesnt 
appear to have reported the matter to Monzo until the following day. 
More recently, Miss F has told us that she deleted the card and added it again a few 
times (I presume shes referring to setting up Apple Pay on her device). As the 
investigator pointed out, and I agree, this is new submission from Miss F which 
contradicts what shes previously told us about not completing any approval or 
verification on her Monzo app. Its also worth pointing out that the technical evidence 
shows that Apple Pay was set up on a different device, not Miss Fs. So, what shes 
told us about adding Apple Pay to her phone doesnt match with the evidence on file. Theres another discrepancy that I consider important to highlight. Miss F says she 
transferred funds from her savings pot while still on the call. But Monzos records 
show that the transfer took place at 14:39, which is several hours after the call ended 
and is two minutes after the Apple Pay token was approved on the Monzo app on her 
phone. So, things dont add up. 
I think there may be more to what happened that day than what Monzo and our 
service have been made aware of. But Miss F has told us that theres nothing more 
she can recall or further evidence she can provide. 
Ive carefully considered the available information. I cant say for sure what 
happened. But I only have to reach a decision based on the balance of probabilities, 
i.e., what I think is more likely than not to have happened. Ive weighed up everything 
and given the discrepancies Ive noted above and a lack of plausible explanation, 
I cant fairly conclude that the transactions were unauthorised. So, it wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable of me to tell Monzo to reimburse the disputed transactions.
Ive gone on to consider whether Monzo should have noticed from the transactions 
that something didnt look right and intervened before they were completed. I do 
recognise that Miss F lost £279. But I dont consider the individual transaction 
amounts were that unusual such that I think Monzo ought to have paused and made 
enquiries. Considering Monzos wider responsibilities, I dont think it ought to have 
regarded the transactions as suspicious or an indication that Miss F might have been 
at the risk of falling victim to a scam. So, I dont consider it was unreasonable for 
Monzo to have released the payments.
In summary, I recognise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Miss F. But 
in the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Monzo can fairly or reasonably be held liable 
for her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman