DRN-4374001
The complaint
Mr H complains that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading 
as NFU Mutual voided his horse and rider policy, retained his policy premium and refused to 
pay his claim.
My references to NFU Mutual include its agents.
What happened
On 10 August 2022 Mr H telephoned NFU Mutual for a quotation for a horse and rider 
insurance policy. He said he had not seen or bought the horse at that point. After warning 
him about the importance of answering to the best of his knowledge, NFU Mutual asked 
several questions about the horse including this one:
As far as you know shes [the horse] not currently lame or off work or suffering from 
any illness, injury or condition?
Mr H answered no, not to our knowledge.
NFU Mutual quoted a premium for the policy. It said that it did not require the horse to be 
vetted but would require further information including the horses registered name and 
passport number.
On 6 September 2022 Mr H called NFU Mutual to say hed bought the horse and to take out 
the policy.
In mid-November 2022, Mr Hs horse was seen by a vet who diagnosed gastric ulcers. Mr H 
made a claim to NFU Mutual for the treatment costs.
In reviewing the claim NFU Mutual noted that the horse had failed the vetting on 16 August 
2022 due to bilateral low level hind limb lameness. NFU Mutual said that Mr H had not told it 
about the failed vetting in response to its 6 September 2022 question about any changes.
NFU Mutual said Mr H had made a reckless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to 
void his policy from its start (inception) date and treat the policy as though it had never 
existed, retain his premium, and not pay his claim.
Mr H complained to us saying, in summary, that NFU Mutual had not asked him specific 
details about what changes it had wanted to know about.
Our Investigator did not uphold the complaint. Referring to the relevant law, she concluded 
that Mr H had failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
NFU Mutual asked him whether there had been any changes since his initial phone call. 
NFU Mutual would not have offered Mr H a policy had it been aware that the horse had 
failed its vetting due to lameness. So our Investigator concluded that NFU mutual had been 
entitled to void the policy, retain the premium and not pay Mr Hs claim.
Mr H did not agree with our Investigators conclusions and asked for a review as he is 
entitled to do under our rules. He said, in summary:
He did not know about any issues with the horses health when calling NFU Mutual in 
August 2022 and he answered its questions to the best of his knowledge and belief. 
NFU Mutual told him it did not require a vetting certificate, so this calls into question 
NFU Mutuals statement that it would have refused cover based on the vetting 
certificate.
The quotation and inception call took place around a month apart. NFU Mutual was 
at fault for not asking specific questions. Had it done so he would have given specific 
replies.
The vetting certificate did refer to lameness but this was of a minor nature and his 
child has been able to ride the horse without any problem. He made no attempt to 
hide the vetting certificate when making the claim, which did not relate to lameness.
The Investigator had not explained how she had applied the relevant law and she did 
not mention various submissions he had made to us.
Mr H also referred to a website article about misrepresentation, which explained the 
importance of insurers asking questions to prompt consumers to disclose information they 
require for their risk and price assessment.
The complaint was passed to me for review. I asked NFU Mutual for more information about 
the questions it asked and Mr Hs responses. I set out the key points and my findings in my 
provisional decision. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies provided 
the misrepresentation is, what CIDRA describes as, a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. The insurer 
does not have to show that the misrepresentation is linked to any claim made under the 
policy.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care, including how clear and how specific the insurers questions were. And the 
remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
NFU Mutual had not suggested that there was any misrepresentation made by Mr H during 
the 10 August 2022 call when he asked for a quotation for the horse and rider policy. Indeed, 
the horse was vetted on 16 August 2022, so this was after the quotation call. The vetting 
certificate and the linked vets clinical notes show that the horse failed the vetting due to 
bilateral low level hind limb lameness. Mr H purchased the horse the following day.
But NFU Mutual thinks Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
because he did not tell it that the horse had failed the vetting during the 6 September 2022 
call.
Having listened to the 6 September 2022 call recording, I am satisfied that Mr H did not tell NFU Mutual that the horse had failed the vetting on flexions, as hed suggested to NFU 
Mutual during his later conversations with it about NFU Mutual voiding his policy.
So the key question I must decide is whether Mr H took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation during the 6 September 2022 call. Having carefully considered all the 
evidence I have received I dont currently think he did fail to take reasonable care. I will 
explain my reasons:
NFU Mutual began the 6 September 2022 call by asking Mr H:
Were there any changes or queries or anything else on this one before we set it 
up?
Mr H had replied:
No, no changes I thinkI cant remember what wed gone for now.
The agent went on to outline the policy cover, being loss of animal and vets fees.
In response to my queries, NFU Mutual now accepts that its question was not clear or 
specific. But it said its agent had asked a question and had given Mr H the opportunity to tell 
it about the vetting of the horse. The agent had outlined the policy cover because Mr H had 
answered no to her question.
NFU Mutual also said it asked not only about any changes but also whether Mr H had any 
queries or anything else which gave him ample opportunity to tell it about the vetting or ask 
any questions. The agent went on to ask any other questions or queries? before setting the 
policy up and any changes to the information you have given me? NFU Mutual said it was 
clear (from these questions) that if the information had changed from that given previously 
Mr H should have told it. And NFU Mutual also asked about any final queries or questions 
and any queries at any stage give us a call. So, it says that Mr H was given several 
opportunities to ask questions or tell NFU Mutual additional information.
NFU Mutual also added that there would be no expectation for it to repeat the warning about 
the importance of answering questions to the best of Mr Hs knowledge. It added that all the 
documents it issued clarified that changes did need to be told to it.
Ive thought about what NFU Mutual has said about the other opportunities it gave Mr H to 
tell it about the vetting. But I dont think any of the questions it asked Mr H were sufficiently 
clear or specific to capture the information it wanted to know about.
NFU Mutual did not repeat the questions it had asked Mr H during the August 2022 
quotation call despite Mr H saying that he couldnt remember what hed gone for in the 
earlier call and the agent acknowledging that a few weeks had passed when checking if the 
quotation price was still valid.
In particular, it did not repeat its August 2022 question: As far as you know shes not 
currently lame or off work or suffering from any illness, injury or condition?
NFU Mutual said it asked Mr H to tell it about any changes to the information you have 
given me but this question was not asked in the context of information given in the 
10 August 2022 call. Rather NFU Mutual said that Mr H must tell it in the future if there 
were any changes to the information he had given it.
As well as acknowledging the time that had passed since the quotation call, NFU Mutual knew that Mr H had not seen the horse at the time of the quotation call. So, if it wanted to 
know whether his answers to the questions it had asked him in the August 2022 call had 
changed since hed seen and purchased the horse then I think it should have said that and 
repeated those questions.
NFU Mutual said it gave Mr H plenty of opportunities to tell it about the vetting and to ask 
any questions. I note that he did ask questions in the call, about the excess and whether his 
child would be covered as the rider of the horse.
I dont think that giving Mr H the opportunity to ask questions means that Mr H should have 
realised that NFU Mutual wanted to know about the vetting.
NFU Mutual says that it sent Mr H information about his policy. But he told NFU Mutual that 
he had not received the documentation except for the information about the premium being 
taken. In any event, he had been told NFU Mutual did not require vetting given the level of 
cover and that he should tell it about changes in the future. So, its not clear that the 
outcome would have been different had he received the policy documents.
I am currently of the view that in answering the questions that NFU Mutual asked him, Mr H 
took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. So I think the fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint is for NFU Mutual now to reinstate the policy, pay his claim/s and 
take the additional steps outlined in the My provisional decision section below.
If Mr H has made a claim for his horse under any replacement insurance policy during the 
12-months starting 6 September 2022 then he should provide details of that policy and the 
claims in response to this provisional decision. I will take this into account to avoid any 
duplication of claims payments.
In the My provisional decision section I said, in summary, that NFU Mutual should assess 
Mr Hs claim/s and pay them, subject to any excess, the policy limit and the remaining policy 
terms and conditions, less any premium outstanding for the relevant policy year. I said 
NFU Mutual should pay simple interest on the remaining claims payment at the simple rate 
of 8% per year. I also said that it should remove any information registered about the policy 
being voided and it should give Mr H a letter saying that the policy was voided in error. 
Responses to my provisional decision
NFU Mutual responded with some additional comments. It said that:
On page 8 of its new business documents (the statement) it clearly said, under 
About your horse:
Vetted in the last 12 months of inception date No
Currently lame or off work due to illness or injury No
Mr Hs answers of No were clearly displayed, just above a warning that included the 
following information under the bold heading Important Information:
Your insurance cover is based on the information you have given us, as 
shown in this Statement of Insurance and your Insurance Schedule. Please 
check that this information is correct, as failure to disclose accurate 
information could invalidate your insurance or result in a claim not being 
paid.
The Important Information section went on to ask the policyholder to contact 
NFU Mutual within the next seven days if any details were wrong or missing, which 
may have resulted in a revised premium or terms being offered. 
The onus was on Mr H, the policyholder, to check his paperwork was correct. This is 
the reason that NFU Mutual made the decision to reckless void the policy. Mr H responded to say that he had not obtained replacement insurance and that he had had 
further expense. In response to our question about this, he said the further expense had 
been transport for his horse to the vets and additional stabling due to his horse needing to 
be on box rest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the comments that I have received in response to my provisional decision. 
Having done so, I am not persuaded to depart from the findings that I reached in my 
provisional decision. I confirm them here for the reasons given in my provisional decision 
and below.
NFU Mutual has not commented on the findings that I made on the questions it asked during 
its telephone calls with Mr H in August and September 2022. But for completeness, and for 
the reasons Ive already explained I find that Mr H took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation during those calls. 
NFU Mutual has drawn my attention specifically to the statements on page 8 of its new 
business documents. 
I appreciate the point that NFU Mutual is making about the statements about vetting and 
lameness and the warning on page 8 of its new business documents. 
But Mr H had answered NFU Mutuals questions about vetting and lameness with 
reasonable care in the August 2022 call. He had been told that NFU Mutual did not require 
vetting. NFU Mutual did not repeat its questions about vetting and lameness during the 
September 2022 call. During the 11 January 2023 call when NFU Mutual asked Mr H some 
additional questions following his claim, he told NFU Mutual unprompted that he had not 
received any documentation from NFU Mutual except for the information about the premium 
being taken.
Overall, I dont consider that Mr H made a misrepresentation in the absence of clear 
questions during the second call of September 2022 and given his comment about not 
receiving documents from NFU Mutual.
Mr H has told me that he has not taken out replacement insurance. So he has not paid a 
higher premium due to the NFU Mutual policy being voided. With regards to the additional 
transport to the vet and stabling, he will need to submit an additional claim to NFU Mutual for 
it to assess and pay, subject to any applicable excess, policy limit and the remaining policy 
terms, with 8% interest as set out below.  
Putting things right
I require The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as 
NFU Mutual to take the following steps to resolve the complaint:
To reinstate the policy from its inception date of 6 September 2022 for that policy 
year; and
To assess Mr Hs claims under the policy for the policy year starting 6 September 
2022 and to pay them subject to any excess, policy limit and the remaining policy 
terms and conditions, less any premium outstanding for the policy year; and
To add simple interest* at the rate of 8% per year to the resulting claim payment/s, from the date Mr H paid the vets fees and additional costs to the date of settlement; 
and
To remove any information it has registered on any internal or external database to 
say that Mr H has had a policy voided/cancelled; and to give Mr H a letter confirming 
that the horse and rider policy was voided/cancelled in error so that Mr H does not 
have to answer yes to any question asked by a future insurer about policy voidance 
or cancellation.
*If NFU Mutual considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as NFU Mutual to take the steps set out in the 
Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman