DRN-3980139
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy with the decision AXA Insurance UK Plc made on a claim under her travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs N has explained that in March 2021 she needed to travel abroad to visit a poorly family 
member. So, she contacted AXA, to check some details of her cover. She wanted to make 
sure she was covered for issues related to the Coronavirus pandemic. Mrs N says she was 
assured she was covered. So, on 30 March 2021 she travelled abroad. With a return flight 
booked for 30 April 2021.
However, on 8 April 2021 Mrs N received an email from the airline provider shed booked her 
return flight with. It explained that the flight was cancelled. In addition to this, UK government 
guidance around the Coronavirus pandemic changed. From 9 April 2021, anyone returning 
to the UK from the country Mrs N was in, would need to quarantine for ten days.
As Mrs N couldnt take her original flight home, Mrs N said that until 27 May 2021, she 
extended her stay with family  staying on peoples sofas. But, on 27 May 2021 there was 
still no sign of her being able to secure a flight home. And it was no longer possible for her to 
stay with relatives.
So, she contacted her insurer to make a claim  including for accommodation costs, whilst 
she had to stay abroad. 
Mrs N said AXA told her she was covered under her policy for up to £5,000 worth of 
accommodation because of her extended stay. As well as funds for her new flight back to 
the UK. So, she was reassured by this.
Mrs N also said she raised concerns about needing to quarantine in the UK, when returning 
from the country she was in. She suggested to AXA that she could return to the UK via a 
stay in a third country, so she didnt need to quarantine. Mrs N said AXA told her it would 
consider this cost too.
But Mrs N says that following this, AXA contacted her again, and changed its mind on what it 
would consider. 
AXA said at this point that it would consider costs for her accommodation abroad, until 
5 June 2021, the £250 travel disruption benefit under the policy, and the cost of a new flight 
to return to the UK, minus any refund for the original cancelled flight. These costs would be 
subject to the £75 excess on the policy.
But AXA told her it wouldnt consider costs for any accommodation abroad, following 5 June 
2021. It said there was a flight route back to the UK on this date, from the country Mrs N was 
in. So, Mrs N would need to arrange to fly home on this date. AXA also told Mrs N that if she 
did not return to the UK, cover under her policy would cease at that point. 
Mrs N didnt think this was fair. She said she couldnt find a return flight to the UK on 
5 June 2021. And she said she would need to quarantine by returning home that way  
which was something she couldnt afford to do. AXAs position on the matter didnt change. 
Mrs N took the decision to fly home, via a third country. She flew to that third country on 
10 June 2021 and stayed in that country with a relative for 10 days. Mrs N explained this had 
cost her the flight to the third country, and then back to the UK. As well as other transport 
costs. 
As Mrs N was unhappy with AXAs position on the matter, she raised a complaint with it.
AXA maintained its decision. Mrs N remained unhappy with this. So, she referred her 
complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint. They noted that Mrs N had cover under her 
policy for travel disruption  where her return flight had been cancelled by the airline. They 
said that based on the policy terms it was fair and reasonable for AXA to provide Mrs N for 
settlement of her accommodation between 29 May 2021 and 5 June 2021, when Mrs N 
could have returned to the UK.
Our investigator noted it was reasonable that AXA didnt provide a settlement for Mrs Ns 
cancelled flight. This was because she had received a refund for the flight from its operator. 
In addition to this, our investigator noted that AXA had acted fairly in not providing any 
settlement for costs related to Mrs Ns decision to return to the UK via a third country. They 
said the policy didnt provide cover for this.
AXA accepted our investigators view and agreed it would provide settlement to Mrs N for 
her accommodation costs between 29 May 2021 and 5 June 2021. Mrs N responded and 
didnt agree.
As Mrs N didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision to the parties. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend on upholding this complaint in part. 
When deciding this, Ive considered the relevant law, rules and industry guidelines. The 
relevant rules, which are set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that an insurer must 
deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it.Ive also reviewed Mrs Ns policy documentation. And I can see the policy does provide 
cover for travel disruption  including when on the way home from a trip. This section of the 
policy explains that:
AXA will pay up to £5,000 for reasonable additional travel and accommodation costs 
which are of a similar standard to that of pre-booked accommodation. That cant be 
claimed back from any of source. If the public transport Mrs N was booked on to 
travel home was cancelled for at least 12 hours.
It provides up to a maximum of £250 if the public transport Mrs N was booked on to 
travel to her home area was cancelled or delayed, by at least 12 hours, providing Mrs 
N returned to her home on the next available suitable public transport.  
As is common with insurance policies of this nature, there are exclusions to cover. AXA 
hasnt raised that any of these apply. So, Ive thought about whether AXA acted reasonably 
in how it dealt with Mrs Ns claim, against the above terms of the policy. 
As above, AXA agreed, following our investigators assessment, to pay Mrs Ns claim for her 
accommodation costs, between the period of 29 May 2021 and 5 June 2021, in line with the 
policy terms which say it will pay for reasonable additional accommodation costs, where Mrs 
Ns flight was cancelled. As AXA has agreed to pay these costs, I dont need to consider this 
element any further  it isnt in dispute. 
Instead, Ive needed to consider the costs the remain in dispute. And whether AXA has 
acted fairly and reasonably, in respect of those. Having done so, Im satisfied AXA has acted 
fairly and reasonably, when declining to provide settlement for any other costs. Ive 
explained this under the relevant, separate headings, below. 
Accommodation costs between 6 June 2021 and 10 June 2021
AXA has said that the costs Mrs N has submitted, for accommodation following 5 June 2021, 
arent something they could consider under the policy. It said this was because Mrs N was 
able to return to the UK on 5 June 2021 but didnt. 
Ive thought about AXAs position here. And Im satisfied its fair. 
Mrs Ns policy provides cover for reasonable additional accommodation costs. Once Mrs N 
was able to take a flight home, costs following the date of the return flight dont need to be 
incurred and are no longer reasonable. 
AXA has provided a copy of a flight providers webpage, showing a flight that would take Mrs 
N home to the UK was available on 5 June 2021. And its provided a copy of an email it sent 
to Mrs N, showing that it told Mrs N about this flight. So, Im persuaded that its more likely 
than not, that Mrs N could have returned home at that time. 
Given the above, I dont require AXA to pay anything for the accommodation costs between 
6 June 2021 and 10 June 2021. 
Travel via third country
On 10 June 2021 Mrs N travelled to a third country. She stayed there for 10 days, before 
continuing her journey back to the UK, so she wouldnt have to quarantine. Mrs N has said 
AXA should provide settlement for the costs she incurred in relation to this. She has said this 
was the most cost-effective way for her to return home.I appreciate Mrs Ns point that returning to the UK, without staying over in a third country, 
would have meant costs incurred for having to stay in quarantine, as per the government 
rules at the time. 
But Ive explained above why Im satisfied AXA acted fairly in expecting Mrs N to return to 
the UK on 5 June 2021. As it was fair, I dont find AXA acted unreasonably in saying it 
wouldnt cover costs Mrs N incurred, in choosing to travel elsewhere. 
Mrs Ns policy doesnt provide cover for quarantine costs. So, I acknowledge that costs for 
Mrs N needing to quarantine wouldnt have been covered, if she had followed AXAs advice 
and taken a return flight on 5 June 2021. But it wasnt AXAs responsibility to help pay for 
these or help Mrs N avoid these costs. And as Mrs Ns policy doesnt provide cover for these 
costs, Im satisfied AXA dont need to do anything more in this respect. 
Return flight to the UK 
Prior to Mrs N travelling to a third country, AXA told Mrs N that it would consider the cost of a 
new flight for her to return to the UK, minus any refund she got from the airline provider, for 
her original cancelled flight. I think this was fair, because Mrs Ns policy says it will cover any 
additional, reasonable, travel cost Mrs N incurred due to the cancellation of her flight. 
But Mrs N didnt end up travelling straight home. She stayed somewhere else for a 
prolonged period first. As above, Im satisfied AXA acted fairly in saying travelling to a third 
country was something it wouldnt pay for. 
But I am aware that if Mrs N hadnt travelled to a third country, AXA would have needed to 
have provided a settlement to Mrs N, for her flight back to the UK, if it cost her more than her 
original one. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to pay 
anything here, for Mrs Ns return home. But I dont think it would be.
The reason I say that is because Mrs N has confirmed she received a refund for her original 
flight home. And, that she used some of this refund to purchase her flight from the third 
county to the UK. So, Im aware Mrs N didnt incur an additional cost in respect of this. So, I 
dont require AXA to do anything here either. 
Other costs/benefits  
Lastly, Ive considered whether has acted reasonably in not paying Mrs N any other costs. 
And I dont think it has. I cant see that Mrs N has met the policy terms for any additional 
costs. 
Customer service
Mrs N has said the service she received from AXA was poor. She has said that before she 
travelled abroad, she was told she would be covered under her policy, for all eventualities. 
Before Mrs N travelled abroad, Im aware she contacted AXA to check whether she had 
cover on her policy. Mrs N spoke to a representative on 22 March 2021. I havent been able 
to listen to this call. So, I dont know what was said during this time. But I havent seen 
evidence which persuades me that Mrs N was told all eventualities would be covered. All 
insurance policies have terms and conditions attached to them. And so, I think it unlikely 
Mrs N would have been told otherwise.  Ive also listened to a call recording from the following day, 23 March 2021, which was still 
before Mrs N booked her trip abroad. In this, Mrs N was explained she wanted to check a 
few things about her policy. She didnt ask about quarantine costs or travelling home through 
a third country for example. Mrs Ns question was around what bank card she is able to use 
to book her trip. And the advisor said Mrs N could use any card, as this wouldnt impact her 
insurance. The representative then does go on to detail what cover the policy provides in 
terms of Coronavirus, which was correct. 
During this call, AXA doesnt detail all of the policy terms and exclusions. But I wouldnt 
expect it to do this in any of the conversations it had with Mrs N before she went abroad. It 
wouldnt be possible for AXA to do this. These are contained in Mrs Ns policy 
documentation. Given this, I dont think AXA did anything wrong at this stage.
When Mrs N came to claim, Mrs N has said she was given information about what was 
covered by AXA, and it later changed its mind. 
So, Ive considered the evidence provided, from when Mrs N made her claim, on 
27 May 2022. Ive listened to a call recording, as well as referred to AXAs contact notes. 
From considering these, Im aware that the AXA representative told Mrs N that quarantine 
costs for returning to the UK wouldnt be covered. So, Im satisfied it made it clear to Mrs N 
that these quarantine costs wouldnt be settled by it from the point she made her claim.
During the conversation on 27 May 2021, Mrs N asked AXA if she could travel home via a 
third country. AXAs representative didnt confirm this would be covered. Rather, the 
representative said they would check whether this was an option. And the contact notes 
detail that when it told Mrs N this might be something it was able to consider. 
The advisor followed this conversation up with an email and told Mrs N was told she would 
need to contact AXA to discuss any travel through a third party before booking it  and AXA 
would consider it at the time. So, Im satisfied AXA didnt provide misleading information, that 
led Mrs N to act in a certain way  such as deciding to travel through a third country. 
And shortly after, on 1 June 2021, Mrs AXA contacted Mrs N. It told her it had found a flight 
Mrs N could take home on 5 June 2021. But I dont think AXA was changing its mind from a 
fixed position, or that it acted unreasonably by doing this. The ability to travel, as a result of 
Coronavirus, was changing rapidly at the time. And AXA was doing what it should have, by 
letting Mrs N know there had been a development, and she could fly home.
There is however a suggestion that AXA had told Mrs N it would pay the £250 travel 
disruption benefit, before settling the rest of the claim. AXA did alter its position on this, 
noting it needed the remainder of the claim submitted first, and apologised to Mrs N for this 
confusion. I can appreciate this would have been frustrating for Mrs N. But I dont think the 
frustration here is sufficient to require AXA to do anything more in this respect. It was a 
minor error, with little impact on the situation as a whole. So, I think AXAs apology was fair 
and reasonable.  
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, I uphold this complaint in part, and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Settle Mrs Ns accommodation costs for her extended stay abroad between 29 May 
2021 and 5 June 2021. 
Pay Mrs N 8% interest, simple per annum, on this amount from the date of claim to 
the date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible, to take into account that Mrs 
N has been without these funds, which should have been settled earlier. 
If HM Revenue & Customers requires AXA to deduct tax from this interest, AXA should give 
Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman