DRN-1987930
The complaint
Mr K, on behalf of J (a business) complains that a car acquired under a hire agreement with 
Arval UK Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2013 Mr K was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with 
Arval. The car was brand new at the point of supply and the hire agreement was for an initial 
term of 24 months. Mr K has extended the agreement for several years.
In August 2019 Mr K experienced issues with the car. He took it to a local garage who 
diagnosed water ingress in the ECU. The garage quoted £1800 to repair the fault.
Mr K says the garage told him that the water ingress was caused by a design fault which 
meant the seal wasnt tight.
Mr K contacted Arval about the fault. Arval advised Mr K that because his hire contract was 
a non-maintained contract, he was responsible for the repairs. 
Mr K wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He feels that the ECU 
shouldnt get wet and that the fault has been caused by a manufacturing fault. He wants 
Arval to cover the costs of repair or allow him to reject the car. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. he said there was no evidence to show that the 
water ingress was due to a manufacturing defect or that it was due to a fault which was 
present at the point of supply.
Mr K didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks hire agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to it. Arval supplied the car to Mr K and it is therefore 
responsible for a complaint about the quality of the car. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA) is of particular relevance to this complaint. It says that under a contract to supply 
goods, there is an implied term that the goods are of satisfactory quality.
Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory, taking into account things such as the age and mileage of the car. 
Under the CRA, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a presumption that the 
fault was present at the point of supply and its generally up to the business to put things 
right. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that 
the fault was present at the point of supply. The way in which a consumer sometimes shows 
this is by obtaining an independent inspection.
I can see that Mr K first experienced issues with the ECU in August 2019. This is around 6 
years after the point of supply., so as Ive explained above, its up to Mr K to show that the 
car had a point of supply fault.
Ive looked at all of the available information. Mr K says the garage advised him that the 
cause of the water ingress  was a faulty seal. However, this isnt something which is 
supported by the independent inspection. The independent engineer said he thought the 
water ingress was caused by a blockage of the scuttle panel drain, which had allowed water 
to flow down the inner wing panel area to under the headlight area where the ECU is 
located. He also said it was possible that the issue may have occurred due to coolant 
spillage over a period of time from replenishment of the levels.
I appreciate that Mr K didnt agree with the inspection report and raised further questions of 
the engineer. The engineer said this was a common fleet vehicle and that the issue reported 
wasnt a known design issue.
Based on the information Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that there 
was  a point of supply fault causing water ingress into the ECU. Nor have I seen any 
evidence to persuade me that this is a design or manufacturing fault. 
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think Arval has acted unreasonably or unfairly. I wont be 
asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman