DRN-3221801
The complaint
Mrs D complains Sainsburys Bank Plc have failed to honour a claim she brought under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to all parties, so I will summarise only briefly:
Mrs D used her Sainsburys credit card on 10 June 2016 to pay £2,873 to a company 
Ill call R, to release her from a timeshare she held with another company, C, and 
claim compensation for the mis-sale of the timeshare. The total price of the service 
was £9,576 and Mrs D paid the remaining balance of £6,703 using cards she or her 
husband hold, or held, with other banks. The agreement Mrs D signed with R said 
that R would release her from her timeshare within 12 months of 10 June 2016, or it 
would provide a full refund.
Mrs D says R failed to perform the services she had paid it for. She says she 
remained responsible for her timeshare with C, no compensation claim was made 
against C, and she didnt receive a refund from R.
Mr and Mrs D successfully claimed refunds of the amounts they had paid on their 
other cards, from their respective banks. A section 75 claim was also raised with 
Sainsburys in January 2019 on Mrs Ds behalf through a claims management 
company (CMC). In this claim, Mrs D sought a refund of the amount she had paid 
on her Sainsburys card.
Sainsburys didnt agree to uphold Mrs Ds section 75 claim. It didnt feel there was 
enough evidence there had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by R. 
Mrs D complained about this decision, but the bank wouldnt change its position, and 
so the complaint about Sainsburys decision was referred to this service for an 
independent assessment. Sainsburys maintained, in its initial submissions to this 
service, that it had got its decision about Mrs Ds claim correct, but offered £50 
compensation for having taken a long time to deal with the matter.
One of our investigators recently looked into the complaint. She issued findings in which she 
recommended the complaint should be upheld as R had breached its contract with Mrs D, 
who could hold Sainsburys liable for this under section 75 of the CCA. So she thought the 
bank had got its decision wrong and should provide a refund of the amount Mrs D had paid 
on her Sainsburys credit card, plus compensatory interest. She thought Sainsburys offer of 
£50 compensation in respect of its delays, was fair.
Mrs D accepted the investigators findings but Sainsburys did not agree that it should 
provide a refund. 
Although the bank didnt appear to disagree that R had breached its contract with Mrs D or 
had owed her a refund, it expressed concerns about the involvement of Mrs Ds CMC. It 
noted the CMC had been appointed by R to release Mrs D from her timeshare and were Rs 
agents. It said it felt the CMC had provided it with false information and that it had made the 
right decision about Mrs Ds claim at the time based on what it had been told. Ultimately, it 
wouldnt agree to meet the investigators recommendations and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the matter. 
The case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the CCA gives consumers a degree of protection where they pay for goods or 
services using a credit card. So long as certain technical criteria are met, a consumer can 
claim against their credit card issuer in respect of breaches of contract, or 
misrepresentations, by the supplier of the goods or services. 
It appears all parties now accept in principle that there was a breach of contract by R for 
which Sainsburys would be liable to Mrs D under section 75 of the CCA, so I will not go into 
great detail on this point.
However, based on the evidence Ive seen, R gave a clear guarantee in its agreement with 
Mrs D that she would be entitled to a full refund if she was not released from her timeshare 
within 12 months of entering the contract. During its investigation of the claim, Sainsburys 
wrote to C, who wrote back to confirm on 14 August 2019 that Mrs Ds timeshare was still 
active. So it is apparent that R did not release Mrs D from her timeshare within the 12 
months promised. Mrs D was not refunded by R either, and she will not be now due to the 
fact that R went into liquidation some time in 2018. She is able to hold Sainsburys liable for 
Rs breach of contract in failing to release her from the timeshare, and subsequently failing 
to refund her as promised under the guarantee.
The point of contention in this case stems from the rather unusual context to the claim: that 
Mrs Ds CMC is the company R employed to release Mrs D from her timeshare with C. 
Sainsburys enquired with the CMC about this on 15 April 2019, noting that it was aware 
that [the CMC] were contracted by [R] to undertake these relinquishments. The CMC replied 
to Sainsburys on 2 May 2019, confirming that it wrote to C in 2016 to relinquish the 
timeshare contract. To date, C have never acknowledged our instructions. Sainsburys says 
the CMC provided false information in this letter because it also claimed not to have been 
acting for Rs clients, but I think Sainsburys may have misunderstood the wording of the 
letter. I think its apparent that the CMC was admitting having been employed by R to 
release Mrs D from her timeshare (albeit without success), but denying that it had also been 
employed to take on the compensation claim Mrs D had complained didnt go ahead. 
While I can understand why Sainsburys would have wanted to be careful before making a 
decision based on the information it had received without further verification, on 
14 August 2019 it received confirmation from C that Mrs Ds timeshare was still active. At 
this point there shouldnt have been any doubt that there had been a breach of contract by R 
and what this meant for Sainsburys with respect to the section 75 claim.
The bank appears to consider the CMCs involvement with this complaint to be improper 
given its connection to the non-performance of services which Mrs D brought her section 75 
claim about. Im unable to comment on this, other than to say that I dont think the CMCs 
involvement means Mrs D ceases to have a valid complaint against Sainsburys in respect of 
its handling of her section 75 claim. Ultimately, Mrs D is free to choose whichever person or 
company she wants to represent her in her complaint against Sainsburys. If the bank has concerns about a particular CMC then it would need to pursue these via the appropriate 
channels.
Because I think Mrs D had a valid section 75 claim, it follows that I dont think Sainsburys 
treated her fairly by declining her claim once it had received confirmation from C that she 
was still in possession of her timeshare. It should treat her as though it had handled her 
claim fairly, which means it should refund the amount she paid on her Sainsburys card, 
along with compensatory interest. I also agree with our investigator that the £50 Sainsburys 
has offered for its delays in handling matters is broadly fair in the circumstances, and I say 
this because she was not having to deal with the claim and subsequent complaint herself, 
but has had representatives handling matters for her. This will have lessened the impact on 
Mrs D.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mrs Ds complaint and order Sainsburys Bank Plc 
to:
Pay Mrs D £2,873, adding 8% simple interest per year* to this amount calculated 
from the date it should reasonably have honoured her section 75 claim (14 August 
2019), to the date she is reimbursed.
Pay Mrs D £50 compensation for the impact on her caused by its poor handling of 
the case, as it has already agreed to do.
*If Sainsburys Bank Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs D how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman