DRN-3207021
The complaint
Mrs L and X complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unexpectedly closed 
their bank accounts without explanation.
What happened
Mrs L and X said they received a letter from their bank, Halifax, saying it was going to close 
all of their accounts. Theyd been good customers for a number of years and were surprised 
and alarmed to receive the letter.
Despite calls and visits to their branch, Mrs L and X havent been able to discover why they 
received the letter. Theyre worried they might have been the victim of fraud or identity theft. 
So theyd like to know why Halifax is closing their account and they want some reassurance 
that their finances and identities arent at risk.
Halifax said that following a recent account review itd chosen to end the banking 
relationship with Mrs L and X. Halifax said itd acted within the terms of the account by giving 
two months notice before closure. It was sorry Mrs L and X were disappointed but hoped 
they had sufficient time to find alternate banking facilities.
Mrs L and X werent satisfied with Halifaxs response. So they contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She understood the difficulties Halifaxs decision 
wouldve created for Mrs L and X. But she explained the terms and conditions of the account 
allowed Halifax to end the relationship by giving two months notice.  
As the terms didnt require a reason to be given, our investigator didnt think Halifax were 
obliged to explain why. She felt Halifax had acted in line with its terms and hadnt acted 
unfairly. So she couldnt uphold Mrs L and Xs complaint. 
Mrs L and X didnt agree with our investigator. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision. They didnt understand why Halifax didnt want to do business with them. And they 
were still worried its decision could impact negatively on their standing with other financial 
institutions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the upset and concern Halifaxs decision has caused Mrs L and X. Ive 
looked very carefully at whats happened. But Im afraid I agree with our investigator that 
Halifax hasnt done anything wrong here.
Looking at Halifaxs terms and conditions, the bank does have a right to close an account if it 
wishes. The terms and conditions of the account, which both parties agreed to when the 
account was opened, say the agreement continues until you or we cancel or end it. 
In other words, just as Mrs L and X might decide to move their banking to another provider, 
Halifax can also decide it wants to end the business relationship with them. 
Halifax acted in line with the terms and conditions by giving Mrs L and X two months notice 
so they had time to make other arrangements. And Im afraid banks dont have to give a 
specific reason when they close accounts under these provisions.
Ive looked carefully at everything Mrs L and X and Halifax has said. And I understand 
Mrs L and Xs concerns that, without any explanation, they dont know if their identity or 
financial details are at risk. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that might be the case. And 
I understand Mrs L and X have confirmed their credit rating remains unaffected and theres 
no adverse data or details they dont recognise on their credit file.
I do appreciate how upsetting Halifaxs decision mustve been to Mrs L and X. Banks do 
undertake regular reviews of the accounts they have with customers. And on this occasion 
Halifax has decided to end its business relationship with them. I appreciate this means that 
Mrs L and X are unable to move their banking to other providers within the same banking 
group. And I hope theyve been able to make alternate arrangements moving forwards. 
Although the closure letter doesnt specifically state whether or not Mrs L and X will be able 
to open an account with Halifax at a future date, I can see if does say that the bank reserves 
the right to close any other accounts they may open with the bank at any future point in time 
without notice. 
Based on what Ive seen I cant say Halifax has acted unfairly or discriminated against 
Mrs L and X. The bank acted within the terms of the account by giving two months notice to 
end the banking relationship with Mrs L and X  as its entitled to do. 
Its not the role of this service to tell Halifax, or any other bank, what its policies should or 
shouldnt be. Thats the role of its regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The role 
of this service is to see that the policies are carried out fairly and reasonably. In this case I 
think they were. And I wont be asking Halifax to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman