DRN-3839178
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Admiral Financial Services Ltd irresponsibly gave her a loan that 
she couldnt afford. For simplicity, I will refer to the business throughout as Admiral. 
What happened
In October 2021, Mrs S applied for a loan with Admiral. She was given a loan of £20,000 
and the monthly repayment was £383.77. 
In 2022, Mrs S complained to Admiral to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint not be upheld. Mrs S didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Admiral will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mrs Ss complaint is that Admiral made credit available that was unaffordable. Admiral has 
explained that it carried out some checks to determine the amount of credit it was able to 
offer at the time of the lending. And it relied on information provided by Mrs S in support of 
her application. Its possible that Admiral failed to make adequate checks before providing 
Mrs S with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused 
Admiral to think the initial credit was unaffordable. 
I say this because Mrs S told Admiral at the point of sale that she was working and in 
receipt of income. It transpired that Mrs S was also in receipt of other income. But Mrs S 
told Admiral that the purpose of the loan was for debt consolidation. And Mrs S and 
Admiral went through all the credit that Mrs S planned to repay, including the amount of 
the credit and the monthly cost of it. The loan that Admiral agreed for Mrs S provided 
enough to pay off the loans Mrs S discussed with Admiral, provided a structured way of 
repaying those credit sources that had no such repayment plan in place (the credit cards) 
and cost Mrs S over a hundred pounds a month less than the cost of maintaining the 
existing arrangements. 
So, I dont see the lending decision of Admiral to provide the loan for debt consolidation, 
as evidence solely of new credit being provided by Admiral, adding to an already large 
amount of personal borrowing. Instead, it looks like Mrs S was taking steps, that could be 
termed sensible, to manage her existing debt by taking out this loan and using it to secure 
more favourable terms to existing credit. I say that because Mrs S would have been 
saving money on interest she would have been paying elsewhere and paying less for her 
debt than she was already paying. So, it doesnt seem automatically unreasonable for 
Admiral to have facilitated that.
Mrs S is disappointed as she has told us that she was making repayments to her mother 
for an informal loan. But, being informal, that loan wouldnt have shown up on any credit 
search. And during the telephone call at application that I have listened to, Mrs S was 
asked whether there was anything else about her financial position that Admiral needed to 
take into account. Mrs S chose not to disclose the loan from her mother at that time. So, it 
seems a little unfair to try to hold Admiral fully responsible for not taking into account a 
loan that Mrs S denied Admiral knowledge of at the time of the lending decision. In any 
event, Ive seen insufficient evidence that this loan made that informal loan less affordable
Having considered all the details that have been provided about incomes and 
expenditures in this case, Ive seen insufficient evidence that this loan represented 
unaffordable lending at the time it was provided.  
I know that Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision as she has had some success 
with other complaints. We consider each case on its own merits. I was sorry to read about 
the difficulties Mrs S told us she has experienced. But I want Mrs S to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman