DRN-3715295
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) did not refund her payment to 
a merchant of £4,000.    
What happened
Mrs W made a payment to a merchant for work on her house which included a deposit of 
£800 on 2 December 2020 followed by a payment of £4,000 on 3 December. Mrs W was 
unhappy with the quality of the work that had been completed and contacted Halifax in 
February 2021 to try and recover her £4,800. Halifax refunded the deposit of £800, but 
asked for more information for the £4,000 payment due to its high value.
Halifax requested additional information on 11 March 2021 and Mrs W responded the same 
day, but she didnt answer a key question from Halifax. This was whether or not she had 
cancelled the service or requested a refund from the merchant already and if so, when.    
Mrs W next got in touch in May to chase Halifax for a response. 
Halifax has said it should have told Mrs W in May that the deadline to raise a chargeback 
and try and obtain a refund form the merchant was on 14 April 2021 and had therefore 
already passed. It apologised for this and gave Mrs W £80 compensation and £45 to cover 
the cost of phone calls Mrs W continued to make regarding the issue until a complaint was 
raised in September. Mrs W was unhappy with this as she wanted the £4,000 refunded so 
she referred her complaint to us.
Our Investigator assessed the complaint and said that Halifax has to follow the Visa 
chargeback rules, and these state that Halifax cannot start a chargeback claim until the 
consumer tried to resolve it with the merchant first. Which is why they had to know if Mrs W 
had already attempted to cancel the service or requested a refund. They also explained that 
the time-limits for a chargeback claim are strict and in this case the deadline had passed. 
So, they didnt think Halifax had made an error in the circumstances. 
Mrs W disagreed with this. She was unhappy that she had not been made aware of the 
chargeback rules about timings and she felt that she couldnt ask for a refund from the 
merchant at that time as she was still hoping they would rectify the situation themselves. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Halifax has acted reasonably in the circumstances and I dont require 
it to refund the £4,000 to Mrs W. Ill explain why in more detail. 
A chargeback is a voluntary process run by a card scheme, in this instance, VISA. It is 
intended to resolve settlement disputes without the need to resort to a more formal 
resolution. Examples where a chargeback may be appropriate are where goods never 
arrived or the merchant never provided them, or where goods are faulty and not as 
described. Before a card issuer like Halifax can initiate a chargeback, wed generally expect 
to see that the cardholder has attempted to resolve matters with the merchant first. 
Halifax needed some further information from Mrs W in order to know if the chargeback had 
a reasonable chance of success. I can see that Mrs W responded to all of the points, apart 
from the final one in which Halifax asked if Mrs W had cancelled the service or asked for a 
refund. I think this was a reasonable question to ask considering that we would expect a 
consumer to attempt to resolve the issue with a merchant first. 
Unfortunately, it appears that Mrs W missed this question and didnt provide a response to it. 
And I think its reasonable that Halifax did not continue with the chargeback process as a 
result. The chargeback had to be raised by a strict deadline, which in this case was 14 April 
2021. As this date passed before Mrs W responded with all the information required, Halifax 
was therefore unable to process the chargeback.
Mrs W did mention in her response that she had been in communication with the merchant 
over the previous few months about the issues and they appeared to be willing to fix them at 
that point. And I note that she said in her response to the Investigators view that she did not 
want to ask for a refund during that time because she was still hoping the merchant would fix 
the issues. 
Considering all of this, I think that even if Halifax had sent chasers to Mrs W for an answer to 
their question, as Mrs W was still hoping to have the issues fixed by the merchant and did 
not want to ask for a refund, I dont think Halifax could have continued with the chargeback 
regardless.
Halifax has admitted in its final response letter that it should have told Mrs W in May 2021 
that the deadline for a chargeback to be raised had already passed. Instead, there was 
continued correspondence for a few months about the issue. It has apologised for this and 
paid Mrs W £80 compensation, plus £45 to cover any call costs she incurred. Having 
considered this, I think it is a fair offer in the circumstances.   
In summary, I think Halifax acted fairly when it did not refund the £4,000 to Mrs W and I think 
the compensation already offered and paid is fair in the circumstances. 
 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint against Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman