DRN-2025419
 
The complaint
Mr A complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called MYJAR 
Limited. Mr A says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial problems.
Background
We now know that Mr A took out 4 loans from MYJAR between May 2017 and November 
2019. Ive enclosed a summary of Mr As borrowing with MYJAR, based on the information it 
provided to us: 
Loan Taken Repaid Amount TermHighest Monthly 
Repayment
1 05/05/2017 05/07/2017 £250 3 months £128.77
2 05/07/2017 06/04/2018 £800 12 months £118.71
3 10/04/2018 28/03/2019 £1,425 12 months £215.48
4 01/11/2019 outstanding £725 12 months £109.33
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. But 
Mr A doesnt agree with what they said, so hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr As complaint.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
A could repay the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have 
taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship for example, less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the 
fact that MYJAR should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of these things 
and what they mean for Mr As complaint.
MYJAR told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend to 
Mr A. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked at the overall pattern of lending history with 
a view to seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that 
further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
I think the financial checks which MYJAR most likely carried out in this case would have 
been quite basic ones. But bearing in mind what Ive said above, about the length of the 
lending relationship, they also appear to have been proportionate for loan numbers 1 - 3. I 
think the levels of likely checks, together with the income and expenditure details provided 
by Mr A himself, would have made these particular loans appear affordable for him. 
In coming to that conclusion Ive also considered that loan 3 was for quite a bit more than the 
first 2 loans. But the repayments were extended out over a year and the repayments do 
seem to me to be within Mr As capacity to pay. Mr A also appears to have coped with 
paying off the loans he had up until that point.
For loan number 4, I note there had been a considerable gap prior to this lending and once 
again, Mr A appears to have successfully paid off previous loans. Given that gap, however, 
Id consider this as new lending and not part of the previous lending chain. So, I think it was 
reasonable in this case for MYJAR to have relied on the information it most likely had at the 
time to decide whether to lend to Mr A and this was provided by Mr A himself. 
Im afraid all this means Im not upholding the complaint about any of the 4 loans. Im sorry 
to disappoint Mr A.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the complaint about loans 1 - 4. I dont direct 
MYJAR Limited to pay Mr A any compensation in respect of these. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman