DRN-3220127
The complaint
Mr B feels that Nationwide Building Society has treated him unfairly in relation to his credit 
card regarding the purchase of a lawnmower.
What happened
In May 2017, Mr B purchased a large ride-on lawnmower. It cost £2479.50 and to fund this 
purchase he traded in his old mower for £485.50 leaving him to pay £1995 on his Nationwide 
Building Society (NBS for short) credit card.  In May 2018 he raised concerns with the 
lawnmower supplier about wet grass clogging the outlet chute and noting that lifting the 
grass box was beyond my own strength. Mr B points to employment law and regulations to 
suggest that the lawnmower is unsafe. He points to the weight of the grass collection box 
causing him ongoing medical issues. He says the lawnmower is not fit for purpose as it 
doesnt cut wet grass. Mr B was unsuccessful with his complaint to the supplier. So he 
complained to NBS. 
NBS considered his claim under S75 of Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). NBS 
considered the matter and said it wasnt persuaded there had been any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. So it didnt think it should refund Mr B. Mr B wasnt happy 
with this, so he brought his complaint here.
Our investigator considered the matter and said that NBS position was fair.
Mr B has put in a substantial amount of effort into this complaint and made a large number 
and varied arguments on the matter as to why he thinks the Investigators position is wrong. 
He feels he should be refunded the full amount. So, this complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Mr Bs loss and the medical challenges he has had to face.
This services aim is to provide fast, free and impartial resolutions to disputes between 
complainants and firms. With this in mind I note that Mr B has made lengthy and detailed 
arguments about this matter. I have considered all of these carefully. But in the interests of 
clarity, fairness and finality I shall only address the arguments of all the parties that I 
consider key to the fair and reasonable conclusion of this dispute at this service.
There is no dispute that Mr B authorised NBS to pay for the lawnmower. Nor is there any 
dispute regarding the transaction cost being allocated to Mr Bs account. So Im not 
persuaded NBS has done anything wrong with regard to the transaction itself.
Having decided NBS properly paid the supplier, I then need to consider how it considered 
this dispute. I note the significant time gap between when Mr B complained to NBS and 
when hed made the transaction originally. And Im mindful of the card scheme rules here 
and the time limits therein. So all things considered Im not persuaded NBS treated Mr B 
unfairly by looking at this dispute only through the lens of the Consumer Credit Act.
Section 75
The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr B has a claim for material misrepresentation or 
breach of contract against a supplier of goods or services, he can also bring that claim 
against the credit provider (NBS here) provided certain conditions are met. NBS says that 
there isnt persuasive evidence that any breach or misrepresentation has taken place.
To gain protection under Section 75 there are certain conditions that have to be met before 
even considering whether there has been a breach of contract or material misrepresentation. 
I think it likely this transaction falls within the financial limits required by the Act. There also 
needs to be the required three-party contractual relationship-debtor, creditor and supplier; 
often referred to as the DCS relationship. Im satisfied that this relationship is in place here. 
And as such I can now consider whether there has been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation in this case.
Breach
Mr B argues that the lawnmower is of unsatisfactory quality and not fit for purpose. As there 
was significant time between purchase and Mr B raising these issues the onus is on him to 
demonstrate this rather than NBS to disprove it. He says the lawnmower isnt fit for purpose 
because it doesnt cut wet grass. But Mr B hasnt provided persuasive evidence of this. In 
fact his arguments show that the lawnmower does cut wet grass, but the issue is that the 
outlet chute clogs with wet grass and that wet grass makes the grass collection box heavier 
than it otherwise would be. Im not persuaded that the lawnmower was sold as a non-
clogging lawnmower when cutting wet grass or that there is was any guarantee that it would 
be free from clogging when cutting wet grass. So it is evident from Mr Bs own testimony that 
the grass is being cut even when wet. So Mr Bs dissatisfaction is more to do with it clogging 
when grass is wet, and that the collection box is heavy.
Mr B points to Manual Handling Operations Regulations 1992 as amended by the Health & 
Safety (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2002 also EC Directive 2006/42/EC in 
support of his position regarding the lawnmower he purchased. In essence his point is that if 
equipment isnt safe for work how can it be safe for personal use. I shall deal with these 
arguments sequentially.
Firstly the application of the evidence he points to. The majority of the legal basis he refers 
to follow on from primary legislation namely the Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 to 
which Mr B says NBS first referred. This act makes clear in the introductory text that it is:
An Act to make further provision for securing the health, safety and welfare of 
persons at work, for protecting others against risks to health or safety in connection with the 
activities of persons at work, for controlling the keeping and use and preventing the unlawful 
acquisition, possession and use of dangerous substances, and for controlling certain 
emissions into the atmosphere; to make further provision with respect to the employment 
medical advisory service; to amend the law relating to building regulations, and the Building 
(Scotland) Act 1959; and for connected purposes.
Mr B points to guidance from the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) which is also applicable 
to situations where employees are working for employers and may be faced with many risks 
including lifting items which are heavy. Mr B specifically points to the Manual handling 
at work A brief guide produced by the HSE.The applicability of these arguments need to be appropriately framed. So for clarity I note 
that Mr B didnt purchase this lawnmower for work. He did not use it at work. Mr B used this 
lawnmower purely for cutting his own grass on his property in a purely personal capacity. So 
this legislation doesnt apply here.
But Mr Bs argument is more nuanced than this, and he has pointed to some legal advice 
which he has received, which broadly articulates the nuance of the argument which he is 
making, namely:
We recommended relying on the HSE (Health and Safety Executive) documents to support 
your claim under the Consumer Rights Act by demonstrating that when empty, the grass 
collection basket exceeds the weight that the HSE say is safe to be handled even when 
empty, and so would exceed this by a greater extent when full and in need of handling in 
order to empty it. If the weight of the basket is deemed to be excessive, unsuitable and 
potentially dangerous for use in the workplace, then / cannot see how an argument can be 
presented that it is not so for a private consumer.
I have considered what Mr B has said here. Mr Bs argument is, in essence, if it is not safe 
for work it isnt likely to be safe for personal use. And as Mr B has pointed to the HSE Ive 
considered its guidance and particularly the document Manual handling at work A brief 
guide which is on its website and is the key guidance in relation to lifting things at work. I 
should note here that this version was published after Mr B purchased the mower, so it is 
possible it applies a higher standard than was in place at the time of sale, but I am happy to 
consider it here as I think it is fair to do so as it gives clear guidance to sensible approaches 
to risk mitigation in the workplace where lifting is required.
I note it says The Manual Handling Regulations do not set specific weight limits, so the 
guidelines are not safe limits for lifting and carrying. They use broad assumptions or 
generalisations where, if met, the risk of injury is considered to be low. But working outside 
the limits is likely to increase the risk of injury, which can lead to ill health.
So clearly there is no maximal weight guidance from the HSE in play here for the situation of 
workers manually lifting items (not that is the situation here as Mr B was using the mower in 
a personal capacity). The HSE guidance goes on to say what sort of weights do not require 
risk assessments being performed as the risk is deemed low. And it explains that larger 
weights should have risk assessments and those risk assessments should be more detailed 
as the weights involved increase and risks increase also. 
Mr B has said in his analysis that the collection box weighs 16.5kg and that the HSE 
guidance to which weve referred and he has gone on to say: I established that the 
acceptable lifting load, after taking into account the lifting height, bending and twisting action 
involved in removing the grass box, was only 8 Kg; less than half the weight of the grass box 
itself. Im sorry but I do not agree with Mr Bs analysis. 
The section which he refers to describes loads where the HSE consider these to be low risk 
tasks which do not need risk assessments being carried out due to their low risk nature. 
That is not the same as an acceptable lifting load as Mr B has described which is clearly is 
framed in terms of maximal weights that are acceptable to be lifting in certain motions. In 
essence Mr B seems to construe the HSE weights/motions with being the maximal safe 
amounts to work with when actually HSE make clear that these are the weights of items that 
can be worked with without risk assessments due to the weights/motions being low risk in 
the HSEs view due to the low weights involved. It is evident from the guidance that HSE 
make clear that higher weights than these can be worked with safely if the appropriate risk 
assessments are made.It therefore follows that as the HSE guidance doesnt deem any weight above a threshold to 
be unsafe (as it doesnt set safe weight thresholds) then the weight of the grass collection 
box (empty or full of wet grass) is not unsafe in itself according to the HSE guidance quoted. 
And as such this evidence doesnt go towards showing any breach of contract has been 
made out here as a result of it not being fit for purpose as per section 10 of the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015. And to tackle Mr Bs advisors point head on I am not persuaded that the 
weight of the grass collection box is deemed to be excessive, unsuitable and potentially 
dangerous by the HSE guidance that Ive described. It is clear to me that the HSE guidance 
makes clear that weights higher than those in this case can be worked with safely as long as 
proper detailed and appropriate risk assessments are carried out.
Similarly Mr B says Logic suggests that the maximum allowable lifting loads (underlined is 
my emphasis) specified in the Manual Handling at Work document should be no different for 
that person, whether he is at work or at home. But this argument falls away because the 
guidance specifically explains the HSE do not set specific weight limits, so the guidelines 
are not safe limits for lifting and carrying. So unfortunately Mr Bs arguments here are not 
applicable as he was purchasing and using the mower personally but are also based on an 
erroneous interpretation of the HSE guidance.
And for the sake of completeness it is worth adding that Mr B was outside of the common 
working age band, particularly for manual/lifting type employment, at the point of purchase. 
And it is clear he didnt complain for a significant time after purchase. So it appears he had 
insufficient cause to complain during that time and was presumably using the mower during 
that time, as it is clear he has been a regular mower of his grass for some time from what he 
has said. So I cannot discount the possibility that Mr Bs issues with the weight of the 
collection box were more to do with the weight of the box being no longer being within his 
own strength by the time he sought to complain, rather than the weight of the box in itself at 
point of sale.
So Im satisfied that firstly that this legislation and guidance Mr B points to arent applicable 
in this dispute due to the nature of Mr Bs purchase and usage of the mower being personal 
rather than in work. And secondly even if they were applicable (which they are not) then Mr 
Bs arguments are unpersuasive because the HSE clearly explain it doesnt set safe weight 
limits for use but rather gives guidance as to how to approach risk in lifting as part of 
employment. So Mr B has not shown that this mower is unsafe or unfit for purpose. And it 
evidently did cut the grass.
As Ive said the onus is on Mr B to show the mower wasnt fit for purpose, but he hasnt done 
that here. Im not persuaded that it was unsafe nor that it didnt fulfil its intended purpose 
namely cutting grass. Clearly if this had been the case Id expect hed have complained the 
first time he used it, but he didnt. Ive also considered the user manuals of this manufacturer 
and I can see these generally advice is do not cut wet grass. Notwithstanding that, it is also 
clear from Mr Bs own comments that this mower does indeed cut wet grass. It seems over 
time that Mr B found the mower and particularly the collection box increasingly difficult to 
manage alone. So Im not persuaded that there was a breach of contract here. Mr Bs 
arguments are insufficient to my mind for the above reasons. 
Lastly on referring to the EU Directive Mr B argues that if items are to be used for personal 
use this should be considered in its design. Mr B has said the manufacturer has done this 
and performed risk assessment which it wasnt willing to share with him. So taking this and 
considering my comments already I dont think this is a reason for this claim to be upheld 
against NBS either. I am not persuaded this item is unsafe or that any breach of contract has 
been made out here.Misrepresentation
In order to decide NBS should be accountable for misrepresentation I would need to be 
satisfied that there was a material misrepresentation of fact which Mr B relied upon which led 
to his detriment as it was untrue. As Ive said already there was a significant time period 
between when Mr B bought the mower and when he complained about it. Mr B says he was 
told at the time that the mower would cut wet grass. Clearly from what Mr B says this is 
evidently true because he complains that the outlet chute gets clogged up with wet cut 
grass. So clearly grass is being cut otherwise it would not be getting to clog up the outlet 
chute.
Im not persuaded, nor does Mr B argue, that he was guaranteed a mower which wouldnt 
have wet grass build up/clogging in any circumstance. So as it evidently does cut wet grass 
(even though there is guidance which says not to) Im not persuaded Mr B purchased this 
mower based on a material misrepresentation.
Mr B says he wasnt told things about the mower such as the correct method of removing the 
grass collection box or the weight of it. Neither of these are misrepresentations of fact, so 
this is not sufficient to make NBS liable here.
Ive considered everything else Mr B has said and Im not persuaded he was materially 
misrepresented to when purchasing the mower or lost out due to such a misrepresentation.
Other matters
Mr B has pointed to a number of post-sale interactions with the supplier that hes not happy 
with. However these customer service issues post sale do not relate to any breach of 
contract or misrepresentations which induced him to suffer loss here. Accordingly NBS 
cannot be held responsible for those as its liability is limited to the liability set out in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1975.
Mr B points to medical issues which he says are a consequence of dealing with the mower. 
Im sorry to hear he has these medical issues. And NBS can be liable for consequential 
losses under the legislation described if liability is found. But Im not persuaded that NBS has 
treated Mr B unfairly as there is no failing I have found for which NBS (through the supplier) 
should be responsible. 
Mr B has said that NBS hasnt paid for an independent report into the matter. Firstly in this 
situation it doesnt have to. The onus is on Mr B to demonstrate his position rather than NBS 
to defend his arguments. Secondly Mr B has not described the mower as not working or 
being dangerous. His arguments revolve around more that he struggles with its weight and 
clearing the chute. These do not in themselves demonstrate any failing on the part of the 
mower. The reason the chute is accessible, and the mower guidance shows how to access 
and clear the chute, is that such grasses collecting in the chute is within the normal working 
of the mower.
Mr B points to other mowers being lighter or constructed differently. It is true that there are 
many brands and models of mowers in a variety of shapes and sizes. But their differences 
do not demonstrate that this mower was unsafe or that it was unfit for purpose or that NBS 
should uphold Mr Bs claim.
Mr B points to issues with regard to the sale of the mower to him. This decision is only with 
regard to NBS and its obligations. Under the legislation here it can only be liable for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier and not any broader issues such as customer service or post sale demonstrations. Im not persuaded either breach or 
misrepresentation are made out here.
Summary
I am sure that this isnt the decision that Mr B wishes to read. I appreciate his circumstances 
and that these matters must have been particularly stressful, and he has spent a lot of time 
putting together his case. However Im not persuaded on balance NBS has treated him 
unfairly by not paying out on his Section 75 claim to it for the reasons I have given. 
Mr B is free to not accept this decision and continue his dispute with any party involved. But 
this decision does bring to an end this dispute at this service.
My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society. I 
find it has treated Mr B fairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman