DRN-3471023
The complaint
Miss A has complained about the repairs and service she received following an accident 
from her motor insurer Advantage Insurance Company Limited.
Miss A is represented by her father Mr A. However, for the sake of simplicity I shall only refer 
to Miss A throughout my decision. 
What happened
In July 2021, Miss A was involved in a hit and run accident damaging her car. The other 
driver fled the scene. 
She made a claim to Advantage to fix the damage to her car and had to pay her excess 
since the other drivers identity or insurer wasnt known. 
Miss A complained about the service she received from Advantage which Advantage upheld 
in its final response letter. It offered her an additional £100 compensation in addition to the 
previous £35 Advantage had already paid her. 
Mis A also complained about the repairs to her car as initially they were incomplete which 
meant her car to be repaired twice. Despite that there was still a problem with the exhaust 
for which Advantage paid a further £20. Miss A maintained her windscreen had cracked 
either due to the accident or the repair. 
As Advantage didnt think it had to do anything further, Miss A brought her complaint to us. 
The investigator was of the view that her complaint should be upheld. And that an 
independent engineer should examine the car at Advantages cost to see if the wheel alloy, 
windscreen and exhaust were likely to have been damaged in the accident or not. He also 
felt the compensation Advantage paid was sufficient. 
As Advantage didnt agree to the independent engineer, Miss As complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint along the same lines as the investigator. Ill 
now explain why. 
There is no doubt that this accident was very upsetting for Miss A. And although Advantage 
had nothing to do with that, its service to her, which it admitted, fell well below what was 
reasonable for the repair of her car. More so given its approved repairers failed to repair her 
car properly initially and according to Miss A have still failed to repair it satisfactorily.
The cracked windscreen has been adequately reported to Advantage throughout Miss As 
repair ordeal with Advantages approved repairer. I can understand why in a rear shunt 
accident like this, it wasnt initially noticed, but it remains part of Miss As complaint. And 
further the exhaust is still giving problems which was supposedly fixed by the approved 
repairer too. Miss A has also reported alloy wheel trim damage. 
Given the issues with the approved repairer and given the car had to be repaired twice I do 
consider the best way forward is for Advantage to pay for an independent engineer to 
assess Miss As car now. I can understand why Miss A feels vulnerable as regards the 
repairs done given the experience she had with the approved repairers. This engineer can 
then hopefully reassure both Advantage and Miss A of whether the accident damage was 
properly repaired. Or if further damage was caused by the repairers. And if it either is the 
case, then Advantage should pay the additional costs to Miss A to have any further repairs 
work completed or offer to carry them out itself subject to the terms and conditions of the 
policy.
If on the other hand, the engineer doesnt believe the windscreen damage, the exhaust 
issues or the alloy wheel issue was caused in the accident or damaged by the repairers, 
then I consider Advantage doesnt have to do anything more.
This method at least gives reassurance to Miss A whichever way, which would go a long 
way to making up for the experience she suffered with the approved repairers.
I do consider the compensation already paid by Advantage to Miss A is adequate and in line 
with other awards I have made in similar circumstances. So, I dont consider Advantage had 
to do anything further here.   
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Instruct a properly independent engineer to examine Miss As car at a mutually 
agreed time and place. 
Should that engineer find further accident damage or damage from the repairers, it 
should offer to fix the damage or pay a cash in lieu amount for Miss A to get the 
damage repaired. 
If that engineer doesnt find any accident or repair related damage then Advantage 
needs to do nothing more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman