DRN-1521098
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lloyds Bank plc gave him incorrect information about the length of time 
it would take to send him a replacement card. He also complains about poor service 
provided by Lloyds Bank plc.
What happened
Mr L had a credit card account with Lloyds. A fraud had been reported on the card and as a 
result Lloyds cancelled the card and ordered a replacement on 13 September 2019. Mr L 
explained to Lloyds, on this date, that he was planning to go on holiday on 20 September 
2019 and he needed the card. He says he was told hed receive the card the following 
Tuesday. But, Mr L says he didnt receive the card within this timescale and so he contacted 
Lloyds.
Mr L says that Lloyds was very unhelpful. He was told it took between three and five working 
days for a replacement card to arrive. Mr L phoned Lloyds again the day before he was due 
to go on holiday. He says he was very stressed by this stage, but Lloyds wasnt willing to do 
anything to try to get the card delivered to him. He says he had to suggest that Lloyds should 
grant him an overdraft on his current account.
Lloyds agreed to grant the overdraft. But he says he had to go through a lengthy application 
process before this was granted. Mr L complained to Lloyds about what had happened.
Lloyds investigated his complaint. It apologised for what had happened. It said it shouldnt 
have told him hed get the card by Tuesday since the process took between three and five 
working days. Although there was a shorter process available in certain circumstances, that 
process hadnt been used in his case. It said it had paid Mr L £100 (in total) by way of 
compensation and a further £24 for his calls. It also said it would refund any fees incurred on 
his overdraft whilst he was on holiday.
Mr L didnt think this was enough compensation for the stress and inconvenience hed 
experienced. So, he complained to our service. Our investigator looked into his complaint. 
She thought that the compensation Lloyds had paid Mr L was fair and reasonable and in line 
with what our service wouldve awarded. She also said Lloyds needed to go through its 
application process before it could grant Mr L an overdraft. And, although Lloyds had agreed 
that it would refund any fees, Mr L had decided not to use the overdraft. So, she didnt 
uphold his complaint.
Mr L didnt agree. He said that his complaint was about the way hed been treated by Lloyds 
and hed been caused a lot of stress before his holiday. So, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L told Lloyds on 13 September 2019 he needed the replacement credit card before he 
went on his holiday. He said he was going on holiday the following Friday. It wasnt his fault 
that the card had to be replaced. And, I think it was reasonable for him to request that the 
card should be delivered before he went on holiday. Lloyds assured him he would get the 
card before this. So, I can understand how upset he mustve been when the card didnt 
arrive.
Mr L contacted Lloyds on a number of occasions after 13 September because he hadnt 
received the card. He says, in circumstances where Lloyds had failed to deliver on the 
promise hed been given, it shouldve got the card printed and delivered to him. He says it 
refused to do this.
I can see that Lloyds has acknowledged that its adviser shouldnt have told Mr L hed get the 
card before he went on holiday. This was an error. Lloyds says it cant guarantee when a 
card would be received, and it shouldnt have told Mr L that the card would be delivered 
before his holiday.
Lloyds says the card replacement process usually takes between three and five working 
days. In circumstances where a card is required quicker than this a special process has to 
be initiated. 
It is the case that the card replacement process took longer than five working days. Having 
considered all the information, Im satisfied Lloyds didnt issue the replacement card until 17 
September 2019. It appears that the reason for this was because the replacement card 
hadnt been ordered as a same day request. Even if it had been ordered as a same day 
request it wouldnt have been posted until the following Monday. And, if it took five working 
days to arrive  it would still have been too late.
So, I think the problem arose because Lloyds gave Mr L an assurance which wouldve 
required it to initiate the special process. But it failed to do that. 
As Ive mentioned above the preferred outcome wouldve been for Lloyds to be able to 
deliver a credit card to Mr L before he went on holiday. I appreciate that Mr L thought it 
should be possible to print off the card and have it delivered to him. But that wouldve 
required the special process to have been initiated. 
Ive thought about why Lloyds didnt initiate the special process after Mr L contacted it on 17 
and 18 September. It seems that Lloyds thought the card should still arrive within five day 
working days of when it had been issued. But it mistakenly believed that the card had been 
issued on 13 September. That was also an error on its part. And when the card hadnt 
arrived on the fifth working day after 13 September it was too late to initiate the special 
process to achieve the required outcome. 
In these circumstances, where Lloyds hadnt delivered the credit card to Mr L, wed expect it 
to take steps to try to put things right. 
I can see that Lloyds apologised for what happened. And, it paid Mr L £24 for the cost of his 
calls and a further £100 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed 
experienced. 
Mr L says Lloyds didnt offer him any solutions when it failed to deliver on its assurance that 
hed have the credit card before his holiday. He says he had to suggest it should provide him 
with an overdraft on his current account. And it then made him go through an application 
process. Ive thought about what Mr L has said about the overdraft application. I agree with him that 
Lloyds shouldve tried to offer him solutions to the situation that had arisen. But, after he 
suggested it, Lloyds did agree to offer him an overdraft. And, it did agree to refund any fees 
he incurred if he used it. I think that was fair and reasonable. 
Although Mr L didnt use the overdraft when he was on holiday, it had been available to him 
if hed needed it.
Lloyds says it needed to go through an application process before it could grant the 
overdraft. I can see Mr L was annoyed about this because he had to spend further time on 
the telephone. He felt that Lloyds shouldnt have required him to do this because hed been 
its customer for a very long time. And he thought he shouldnt have to spend time trying to 
sort out problems which Lloyds had caused.
I understand why Mr L felt this way. But, because an overdraft is a form of credit, wed 
expect Lloyds to carry out an assessment process before making the overdraft available. So, 
I think it was necessary for this process to be completed.
Having considered everything here, I can see that Lloyds made mistakes. When a business 
makes mistakes its not our role to fine or punish it. We look at whether the actions its taken 
to try to put things right have been fair and reasonable. 
In this case, Lloyds has apologised for what happened. It put an overdraft in place and 
offered to refund any fees incurred should Mr L choose to use it whilst he was on holiday. I 
think that was fair and reasonable.
Its also paid Mr L £100 (in total) by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
he experienced. And its paid him £24 (in total) for the cost of his calls. Having thought about 
this, I agree with our investigator that the actions Lloyds has taken to try to put things right 
are fair and reasonable. So, I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman