DRN-4448849
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have taken the decision to 
close their accounts because they no longer reside in the UK  they believe their 
circumstances to be exceptional and want Barclays to allow them to keep their accounts 
open. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C who reside outside the UK held accounts with Barclays. The terms and 
conditions of Barclays accounts say it can close an account for any reason providing it gives 
two months notice.
On 13 February 2023 Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs C and explained that it was putting 
limitations on the banking services it provides to customers with UK bank accounts with an 
address outside the UK which meant it has to close Mr and Mrs Cs accounts.
The letter explained that at least one of the addresses it held for Mr and Mrs C was outside 
of the UK and that to keep using their account everyone needs to be living in the UK and all 
addresses it holds needs to be in the UK too. There were some exceptions to this but none 
of these applied to Mr and Mrs C. A further letter about this was sent on 15 May.
Mr and Mrs C contacted Barclays about this and were wrongly advised if they change their 
address to a UK address their account would remain open. Mr and Mrs C complained to 
Barclays about this.
Barclays partially upheld their complaint and agreed they were wrongly advised to change 
their residential address to one in the UK to avoid having their account closed and 
compensated Mr and Mrs C £200 for this. But didnt uphold their complaint in relation to its 
decision to close all bank accounts held by customers residing overseas.
Mr and Mrs C were dissatisfied with this response and contacted Barclays again  they 
didnt feel that all parts of their complaint had been addressed. Barclays agreed that it had 
provided Mr and Mrs C with misinformation and apologised for the service received around 
this and access to information and credited their account with a further £150 compensation.
Mr and Mrs C were still dissatisfied with this outcome and brought their complaint to this 
service. Mr and Mrs C say they have financial obligations in the UK and would like Barclays 
to allow their account to remain open. 
 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr and Mrs Cs concerns and reached the conclusion 
that Barclays was entitled to close Mr and Mrs Cs accounts in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account and wasnt obliged to offer an account to them  as it was a 
commercial decision Barclays was entitled to take. 
Furthermore, they thought that the £350 compensation Barclays had paid Mr and Mrs C for 
providing them with incorrect information was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and 
more than they wouldve recommended. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed, Mrs C says they are UK citizens with financial obligations in the UK 
including owning a residential property and view Barclays decision to close their accounts as 
unfair and unethical and have asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr and Mrs C wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in 
the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, Mr and Mrs C have made 
it clear that they are not after financial compensation and are happy with how Barclays have 
dealt with their complaint, so Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint  Barclays decision to close their bank accounts as they reside overseas. Our 
rules allow me to do that.
It might help if I explain that my role is to look at the problems Mr and Mrs C have 
experienced and see if Barclays has done anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if 
possible - to put Mr and Mrs C back in the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes 
hadnt happened. And I may award compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
As has already been explained by our adjudicator, as a general rule, Barclays isnt obliged to 
continue offering an account to a customer if it doesnt want to  providing banking facilities 
and to who is a commercial decision and not something for me to get involved with.
That being said it wouldnt be fair for Barclays to close Mr and Mrs Cs account outside the 
terms and conditions of the account or without reasonable notice.
The terms and conditions of the account say that Barclays is able to close an account 
provided it gives two months notice. 
I can see that Barclays gave Mr and Mrs C the required notice on 23 February 2023 
explaining that it was limiting its banking services to customers who reside outside of the UK. 
Mr and Mrs C say that they do not have access to another payment account in the UK with 
basic features and as such they fall within one of the exceptions to when Barclays can close 
an account. But in relation to this point the terms and conditions say Barclays can close a 
basic current account if:
You have access to another payment account in the UK with basic features
Youre no longer legally resident in the UK or
There havent been any transactions on your account for more than 24 months.So I think Mr and Mrs C are mistaken in their interpretation of the terms and conditions in 
that Barclays uses the word or which means it only needs one of the above reasons to 
close the account  not all three. 
So Im satisfied Barclays was entitled to close Mr and Mrs Cs account in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account as they no longer reside in the UK and Barclays has provided 
them with the notice period it has to and that no error or mistake has been made. 
I appreciate that this has caused some distress to Mr and Mrs C and finding a new account 
to host their funds and service their mortgage will be an inconvenience. But ultimately 
Barclays arent obliged to keep offering banking facilities just as Mr and Mrs C are free to 
choose what banking services they wish to uptake. 
So, I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong or treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly and it 
follows that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman