DRN-4249818
The complaint
Miss O complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, were unreasonable not to 
continue to pursue a chargeback claim she made to them. She says they made mistakes 
and were it not for these her claim would have succeeded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss O, but I dont think Halifax have been unreasonable here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a debit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible for the business to raise a chargeback claim.
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Halifax, its administered by Visa, and they set 
the rules. Halifax didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good practice for 
them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
Ultimately, it would be VISA who decided which side to support in a chargeback claim. We 
don't have authority to challenge how they run their scheme, but I can consider whether 
Halifax were reasonable in not taking the chargeback to the next stage of arbitration when 
the merchant defended it.
The merchant provided evidence that Miss O had authorised the payment. An email from her 
stated:
Please proceed with the above as per our phone conversation at £225k.
Miss O hasnt provided any information that I think would have been likely to persuade VISA 
that she hadnt authorised the payment, as the email would suggest. In those circumstances 
I dont think Halifax were unreasonable to seek to recover the £7,500 they had refunded to 
Miss Os account when they initially raised the chargeback for her. There was little prospect 
of the claim succeeding if it was taken to arbitration. As Miss O had closed the current 
account by the time the business sought to recover the funds, I dont think they did anything 
wrong when they recovered the funds from a savings account Miss O also had with them.
Miss O has raised a number of issues with the processing of the chargeback. She had 
difficulty, for instance, receiving and reading the correspondence Halifax sent her, and she 
had difficulty responding. Shes also suggested Halifax could have stopped the payment 
when she initially called them, and that the dispute was closed too early, and not raised 
under the correct reason. But given the merchants response to the claim Miss O had 
made, I dont think any of those issues would have changed the outcome of the chargeback 
claim, as the evidence suggested Miss O had authorised the payment.
Ultimately, Im not persuaded that Halifax have done anything wrong here and while I 
understand this has been a very upsetting time for Miss O, this is not a complaint I think it 
would be fair for me to support. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman