DRN-2025387
The complaint
Mr Z and Mrs A say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr Z and Mrs A took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2002. Mr Z and Mrs A paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered both of them in 
case either of them was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr Z and Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Z and Mrs As case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Understandably, because of all the time thats passed, neither side still have the original 
documents from the sale of the PPI. But from what Ive seen of Halifaxs sales process from 
the time, the PPI wouldve been set out as a separate cost to the mortgage, and not as part 
and parcel of the lending. It was not a condition of the mortgage. And normally, in order to 
get a policy, Mr Z and Mrs A would need to have actively chosen it. Ive not seen any wider 
problems with Halifaxs sales process from the time, nor anything which would show that 
Mr Z or Mrs A were misled here or that their sale significantly differed from the normal 
process. So I think its most likely that Halifax made Mr Z and Mrs A aware they had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr Z and Mrs A, so it had to check it was right for them. 
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr Z and Mrs A were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. They didnt have any other cover at all aside from the very limited 
statutory benefits, which were not comprehensive. And if Mr Z and Mrs A had fallen behind 
on their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So the PPI couldve really been useful for 
them in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr Z and Mrs A about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr Z and Mrs A werent affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr Z and Mrs A could cancel 
it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Z and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman