DRN-2734680
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Essential Money Ltd mis-sold him a Free Standing Additional 
Voluntary Contributions (FSAVC) policy in 2005. Mr W has said that hes been exposed to 
market risks which wouldnt have been present with what he says would have been the 
suitable alternative of an in house AVC scheme, that the term of the plan was inconsistent 
with his retirement age in his occupational pension scheme (OPS), and that the plan was 
sold without taking into account his then employment contract and future prospects with 
that same employer.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 March 2021, a copy of which is set out 
below and begins with the background to the complaint. 
In summary, I said I was minded to not uphold the complaint on the basis that, if Mr W 
wished to enhance his retirement benefits, the choice of an FSAVC policy at the time, given 
his circumstances, wasnt unsuitable.
Essential Money Ltd advised Mr W to establish an FSAVC policy in February/March 
2005, and the policy then began in April 2005. At the time, he was employed on a seven 
year contract, but was nevertheless a member of his defined benefit OPS. This scheme 
offered several in house options to enhance retirement benefits, including an added 
years arrangement, an AVC scheme, and a stakeholder plan.
Following contact from HMRC in November 2017 relating to him having exceeded his 
annual allowance for pension contributions for the 2016/17 tax year, Mr W began looking 
into his pension arrangements, which included a request for information relating to this and 
the arrangements he put in place in 2005.
Following this, Mr W submitted a complaint to Essential Money Ltd on the above basis, but 
the latter declined to uphold the complaint, saying in summary that the FSAVC policy was 
suitable for his circumstances and objectives, in addition to being affordable and suited to 
his attitude to investment risk.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr W referred his complaint to his service. Our 
investigator assessed the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld, saying the 
following in summary:
Essential Money Ltd had identified a requirement for Mr W to maximise his 
retirement benefits, but it incorrectly told him that there was no in house option to 
enhance the main scheme benefits. There were in fact four in house options 
available to Mr W at the time.
The investigator said that this demonstrated a failing on behalf of the adviser to 
collect enough information to accurately determine the available options, and that 
this was in contravention of the regulatory requirements in place at the time. This 
said that an independent financial adviser should discuss with the client the 
differences between the AVC options and the FSAVC, including the following 
considerations:
o charges and expenses between the FSAVC and AVC
o the choice on investments
o the availability of added years and the number of years that could be 
purchased
o the degree of personal control and privacy
o the age at which benefits could be taken
o the degree of portability on changing jobs
AVCs are usually cheaper than FSAVCs, the investigator said, so it was likely that 
Mr W had paid higher charges with the FSAVC.
He also considered the option of buying added years, which would have 
increased the number of years pensionable service which would, along with the 
salary towards the end of that service, be used to calculate the pension benefits 
payable to Mr W when he retired.
But having considered that further option, the investigator wasnt persuaded that 
this would have been the appropriate choice for Mr W, noting in support of this 
position that Mr W was quite young and on a seven year employment contract. 
He said that Mr Ws employment might have changed in the future, and he noted 
the associated higher cost of buying added years.
The investigator therefore concluded that, if properly informed of his options, Mr W would 
have opted to contribute towards the in house AVC scheme. As such, he recommended 
that Essential Money Ltd should undertake a redress calculation in line with regulators 
FSAVC review guidance, which would take account of any difference in charges between 
the FSAVC and AVC scheme, along with any missed employer-matched contributions or 
other subsidy.
Essential Money Ltd initially accepted the proposal, but on reflection later reverted to 
its position that the FSAVC was a suitable proposition for Mr W. Mr W also raised 
several objections to the investigators proposal. The submissions from both parties 
have been provided over the course of a significant amount of email correspondence 
between the parties and the investigator. I summarise the crux of these below:
Mr W was concerned at the investigators proposal with regard to the loss 
calculation, as he considered a more appropriate resolution to the matter would be 
to rescind the FSAVC policy and refund the contributions hed made to it.
If he were to maintain the FSAVC - as he now felt he needed to as a 
consequence of the investigators conclusions - this would result in him facing a 
regular annual allowance tax bill. For 2018/19, this would be in the region of 
£17,000.
But if he stopped paying the premiums to the FSAVC, he would be reducing his 
likely retirement benefits, which would have the opposite effect of the intent of the 
investigators proposal.
Mr W also thought that, by ceasing his FSAVC contributions, this would have a 
more profound financial effect than the investigators proposal was redressing him 
for.
He queried whether any redress sum could be paid directly to him, rather than to 
the FSAVC, which the investigator confirmed was possible.
Mr W said that, had he been a member of the OPS AVC, his contribution 
would have been a fixed percentage of his salary  and if this mirrored the 
initial FSAVC premium (£500pm) , this would have been 10% of his salary. He reduced the FSAVC contribution to £300pm, but in line with his salary 
increase, he would have been paying a much higher amount in the AVC. 
There would therefore be a significant under contribution, which would 
undervalue the redress due.
The FSAVC provider had confirmed that he was unable to increase his 
contributions to his plan. As such, he wouldnt have been able to match the 
increase which would have been applied to the AVCs, and so this underfunding 
should be taken into account.
He was complaining through two lenses; one that he shouldnt have been sold 
the FSAVC and therefore should be entitled to a refund of the contributions; and 
the other that, since that may not happen, any redress should take into account 
him keeping the policy and having to manage his tax issue. This was, in Mr Ws 
view, completely sensible.
At no point, before meeting with the adviser, had he thought he needed to 
enhance his pension provision.
Essential Money Ltd said the following:
Mr W had benefitted considerably from the advice to establish the FSAVC  his 
fund value was, as at February 2020, in the region of £117,000. As the pension 
freedoms would now allow him to access this flexibly, hed be in a position to 
achieve his objectives of reducing his tax burden, increasing long term savings, 
topping up his pension fund and achieving financial independence by the age of 
60.
He was still contributing to the FSAVC  if he was dissatisfied, he would have 
ceased payment to the plan.
The FSAVC had been consistent with his tolerance for investment risk and he 
had benefitted from higher rate tax relief on his contributions.
Making in-house AVCs wouldnt have met any of Mr Ws objectives  it would 
only have increased the death benefits available to Mr Ws dependants. It said 
that Mr W wasnt married at the time of the advice and remained single to date.
Added years had also been ruled out in the investigators assessment.
The remaining option of a stakeholder plan wasnt available to Mr W as he was 
earning above the maximum income threshold of £30,000 pa in place at the time 
of the advice.
Mr W then asked the investigator as to whether his complaint would be affected if he 
ceased contributions to the FSAVC. The investigator confirmed that it wouldnt.
Mr W also submitted what he considered to be further supporting evidence that he would 
have contributed a fixed percentage of his salary as AVCs, and that as the aim was to 
place him in the position hed be in but for the business mistake, this should be taken into 
account in the underfunding consideration.
Essential Money Ltd then indicated its position that the complaint had been made too late, 
in line with the timeliness rules which govern whether we can look into a complaint.
I issued a decision on our jurisdiction to consider the matter on 1 February 2021, 
concluding that it had been made in time and was therefore one which we could consider.
Essential Money Ltd has expressed disappointment at my decision that we could consider 
the complaint, but has submitted no further points or evidence for me to consider in 
relation to jurisdiction.Neither party has submitted further evidence in respect of the merits of the complaint. But 
as the investigator had already issued his view on the matter and wasnt minded to alter his
opinion, he told both parties that it would be referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And Ive done so under the 
following subheadings.
The tax charge and ceasing FSAVC contributions
I appreciate that Mr W may in recent years have been facing tax charges for breaching the 
annual allowance, but it seems that he may now have addressed this through ceasing 
contributions. And Mr W will have known, on the basis of previously reducing his 
contribution level, that doing so again, or making the policy paid up has been possible at 
any time to avoid such a tax charge.
Mr W has also said that, if he ceased payment to his FSAVC to avoid the tax charge, 
this would reducing his overall retirement provision  and that this would be contrary to 
the investigators objective. But the intent of the investigators proposal wasnt to 
produce a situation of optimal retirement benefits, or tax status, for Mr W. On the basis 
that the principle of enhancing retirement benefits wasnt in itself unsuitable, the intent 
was to compensate Mr W for any loss of employer subsided contributions and the effect 
of likely higher charges in the FSAVC.
The two issues - whether Mr W continued to pay into the FSAVC, and whether he received 
compensation for financial loss - were entirely unconnected, and if a lump sum redress 
payment into the FSAVC would cause allowance issues, as indicated by the investigator, 
this should instead be paid to Mr W, minus the notional deduction for income tax at his 
basic rate on 75% of the payment. And it seems that Mr W now accepts this.
The AVC options available to Mr W
Mr W has further said that, as his AVCs would have been an irreversible fixed percentage 
of his salary, any loss calculation should take into account the significant level of 
underfunding which would have occurred. But this is where a detailed analysis of the 
options actually available to Mr W becomes crucial to the outcome here.
As pointed out by Essential Money Ltd, the four options for Mr W were effectively to make 
AVCs, buy added years, establish an employer-linked stakeholder pension, or start an 
FSAVC policy. But the first of these  the AVCs - were directly related to death benefits 
only. I think Essential Money Ltd is mistaken in its current understanding of Mr Ws married 
or family life situation, but even as a single man in 2005, he was relatively young and so it 
wasnt improbable that he would marry or have children at a later date.
But this wouldnt have met the objective of enhancing Mr Ws retirement benefits. And I 
think its unlikely that if an as yet unrealised family situation was presented to Mr W as 
something needing to be protected for the cost of £500pm, he would have identified the 
enhancement of his own retirement benefits as being rather more of a priority.
So I dont think enhancing death benefits through this arrangement of AVCs would have 
been a key objective, or suitable recommendation, at this point. Had it become relevant at 
a later date, this is something which could have then been revisited.The option of buying added years was discounted by the investigator, and this hasnt 
been challenged by Mr W, presumably as the reasons given by the investigator are 
aligned with Mr Ws own stated concerns about the contract of employment he was in at 
the time  and future uncertainty in that regard.
But for clarity, I agree with the investigators conclusions here  Mr W was young and on a 
seven year employment contract. Under such circumstances, there would be limited 
benefit in buying added years when the salary at the date of leaving an employer is 
unlikely to have reached its full potential - combined with the relatively high cost of buying 
those added years.
These were the only two options in which a percentage of Mr Ws salary would have been 
fixed. As such, as neither would have been suitable for Mr W, the argument for any loss 
calculation taking into account the principle of underfunding as Mr Ws salary increased 
falls away. There would have been no increasing percentage of salary which the FSAVC 
contributions would need to match.
The remaining employer-linked option which would have been of benefit to Mr W was the 
stakeholder plan. This would have been of particular benefit in terms of the charges 
applied, as this was capped within that plan at 0.6% pa, which is likely to have been lower 
than the FSAVC policy.
But Essential Money Ltd is right when it says that this option wouldnt have been available 
to Mr W in the early part of 2004. The £30,000 salary cap on making concurrent 
contributions to an OPS and a stakeholder plan was only removed with the advent of 
pension simplification in April 2006. And Mr W was earning in excess of this in 2004.
So the remaining option for Mr W to enhance his retirement benefits was an FSAVC. Ive 
therefore then thought about the other aspects of Mr Ws complaint relating to suitability 
of the FSAVC for him in 2005.
Other FSAVC suitability considerations
These may be categorised as follows: the risks were unexplained and inappropriate; the 
FSAVC was unsuitable based on the length of Mr Ws seven year employment contract; 
a failure to match the retirement date of the FSAVC with that of the OPS; a lack of 
consideration of possible future contracts with the same employer; and a lack of 
consideration of lifestyle and student debts.
I dont think the principle of enhancing Mr Ws retirement benefits is at dispute here. I 
acknowledge Mr Ws comment that he hadnt previously identified a need to do so, but I 
note his own comments that he was under no obligation to meet with the adviser and that it 
was his choice to do so.
Furthermore, I think its quite indicative of the benefit which Mr W himself perceives 
additional pension contributions to represent that he continued making them even up to 
the point of the complaint being assessed by our investigator. And this is perhaps 
unsurprising. Mr Ws contributions have benefitted from tax relief and a tax efficient 
investment environment, and the policy has accumulated a reasonable amount of money 
which will enhance Mr Ws retirement prospects.
But Ive nevertheless considered the overall suitability of the policy, taking account of 
the specific points raised by Mr W.To address the first of these, its fair to say that, in the context of the comparative risk 
represented by some of the alternatives, there would have been no risk to Mr W through 
either AVCs or buying added years. But for the reasons above, these werent 
arrangements which would have been well suited to Mr W. A money purchase stakeholder 
plan would have exposed Mr W to market risk in the same way as the FSAVC (depending 
of course on the investment funds chosen), but this wasnt in any case an option for Mr W, 
as also set out above.
So comparative risk aside, Ive thought about the actual level of risk to which Mr W 
was exposed through the FSAVC, and whether it could reasonably be argued that this 
was suitable for him. Mr W was recorded as having a balanced to adventurous 
attitude to investment risk, and the asset split within the FSAVC was to be as follows:
UK Equity 50%
Property 15%
American (equity) 15%
European (equity) 10%
Pacific (equity) 10%
My view is that this is consistent with a balanced/adventurous risk attitude, and so, on 
that basis, and also taking into account Mr Ws age and number of years to retirement, I 
dont think he was exposed to an unsuitable level of investment risk. I can also see that 
appropriate warnings were provided that there were no guarantees as to performance.
To then address the next point about what Mr W considers to be the policys incompatibility 
with the term of his employment contract, the portability of an FSAVC, due to it being 
entirely separate from the employers scheme, is in fact one of its greatest advantages. So, 
had Mr W moved to a new employer at the end of his seven years contract and joined a 
new OPS, he could have continued to pay into the FSAVC. I think this also addresses the 
concern Mr Ws raised that the advice didnt take into account his future contracts with the 
same employer. It was flexible, and so he could have either retained it, or taken it to a new 
contract of employment.
There are further flexible benefits of the FSAVC which also warrant mention here. For 
example, I note that, although Mr W has said that his AVCs would have been increased 
in line with his salary, which formed the argument for factoring increased contributions 
into a loss calculation, he actually opted to reduce his contributions to the FSAVC from 
£500 to £300 pm. This wouldnt have been possible with either the AVC or added years 
arrangements, except, as Mr W says, in extremis.
Mr W has also said that the retirement date of the FSAVC mismatched that of the main 
scheme, but Im inclined to agree with Essential Money Ltd that the apparent changes to 
the FSAVC retirement date are indicative of conversations with Mr W at the time of the 
advice around this issue. But as also pointed out by Essential Money Ltd, Mr W wasnt 
bound by a retirement age he selected at the outset of the policy  this could be changed 
to match any retirement date available from the main scheme, albeit the minimum age that 
this could happen later changed to age 55.
And then finally, Mr W has expressed concern that consideration wasnt given to his 
lifestyle and debts at the time. But it seems that, although Mr W did indeed have student 
debts outstanding, the FSAVC contribution was affordable and didnt impact on his ability 
to repay those loans.
Although not specifically articulated in the complaint, Mr W may have concerns that the 
FSAVC contributions would have been better directed to repaying the debt sooner. But my understanding (and indeed experience) of student debts is that they carry a relatively low 
rate of interest. Therefore, taking into account the tax relief and tax efficient investment 
environment within the FSAVC, and also on the basis that the expected rate of growth 
would outstrip the interest rate payable on the debts, I dont think it would have been a 
more suitable recommendation for Mr W to repay his student debt at a faster rate than he 
already was, instead of contributing to the FSAVC.
Summary
Overall, for the reasons given, my current view is that the recommendation to establish 
an FSAVC policy wasnt unsuitable for Mr W. I appreciate that this might come as a 
disappointment, but I hope that Mr W will also appreciate the benefit hes received from 
his contributions, a not insignificant sum on the basis of the figures quoted in the course 
of this complaint.
Essential Money Ltd made no further comments on my provisional findings. Mr W disagreed, 
however, saying the following in summary:
Hed made an error in assuming that an in house AVC was the same as buying 
added years. He hadnt realised that the in house AVC would solely enhance the 
death benefits payable to his spouse or surviving partner.
But he nevertheless believed that he could demonstrate that added years would have 
been the cheaper option for him, would have been flexible and would have reached 
their full potential if he was only on a short seven year contract.
Mr W said that my provisional conclusions were based on: a misunderstanding of the 
facts relating to his original complaint; incorrect speculation on the added years being 
a poor option in terms of expense, inflexibility and length of contract; incorrect focus 
on the complaint being about tax; missing clear facts about his student debt; and a 
misunderstanding of the FSAVC policys rules.
The information provided by Essential Money Ltd about the advisory process had 
been proved by him to be inaccurate  this included false dates of meetings. It also 
didnt know about the AVC options available within his OPS. I shouldnt therefore 
have relied on the changes to the retirement date in documentation to conclude that 
they were evidence of conversations having occurred on this matter. 
He was aware that Essential Money Ltd had asked the FSAVC provider for 
information relating to the charges which would be levied to make the policy paid up 
status or to take a premium holiday. Mr W said that it was inappropriate for it to make 
such enquiries during a complaints process, and also that this was indicative of it 
wishing to portray knowledge of the product which it didnt have in 2005.
He could have begun buying three added years in 2005, at a cost of 5.75% of his 
monthly wage  this would have bought him the full pension value at age 55, and the 
benefit would have been pro-rated had he left service earlier. This applied to seven 
and 16 year contracts. As such, it was incorrect to say that this option would have 
been too expensive  in fact, given his 13.5% contribution (or 17.6%, as Mr W had 
calculated due to the difference in the way the payments were taken from his wage) 
to the FSAVC, added years would have been the cheaper option.
When he reduced his FSAVC policy contribution in 2006 to around £300 pm, this still 
equated to around 5.8% of his income (or 8.7% as Mr W had calculated due to the 
difference in the way the payments were taken from his wage)  which meant that 
the added years options was still viable. He would also have received guaranteed, 
pro-rated benefits at retirement if his contract had only been for seven years.
In terms of the contract, he had expressed a preference to stay in the armed forces 
beyond the end of it, as confirmed by Essential Money Ltd in its own defence of the complaint. It was therefore clear that this was his intent and dismissing the 
complaint on the basis that he wouldnt have taken a longer contract was incorrect.
Had he achieved a 16 year contract, as he was now on, his retirement benefits would 
have been enhanced further still, and would have outweighed any benefit from the 
FSAVC policy, which would have been paid out until age 61. He could have 
accessed the OPS added years benefits after 16 years service - at age 41.
Had he remained in service until age 55, he would have received the full benefit of 
the three added years - which again would have been superior to those provided by  
the FSAVC policy.
Had a comprehensive conversation been held regarding his options, the suitable 
recommendation would have been to begin buying added years.
Had there been no added years option, then a high risk pension product would 
have been appropriate. But had the risk free, guaranteed, super secure added 
years option been explained to him, it would have been the obvious choice. It was 
also the more tax efficient choice.
The added years option was the better deal  and so the size of the FSAVC pension 
pot was irrelevant. There was clear evidence that the pot of money in the FSAVC 
policy would fall well short of the amount required to produce a return comparative to 
that which would have been received through buying added years.
With regard to Essential Money Ltds comment that it was unlikely that hed still be 
contributing to the FSAVC if he was dissatisfied with it, Mr W said that he had no 
issue with contributing further to his retirement benefits - the issue he had was that 
he could have been contributing to the superior added years arrangement rather than 
the FSAVC policy.
Mr W said that his complaint wasnt about tax  although the issue of the annual 
allowance had prompted his investigations which led to the complaint, this wasnt an 
argument upon which he was relying in making his complaint.
Mr W said it was factually incorrect to say that he was able to access his FSAVC 
before the retirement date set at inception, as a significant exit fee would apply. The 
FSAVC had an end date which didnt match the end date of any of his contracts or 
his potential full commission. There was no connection between the FSAVC and his 
employer. 
As Mr W could have retired after 16 years service  at 41  his FSAVC benefits 
couldnt have been taken at the same time as the main scheme.
As he also couldnt match the FSAVC retirement date with that of his current main 
scheme without suffering a significant financial penalty, this was the opposite of what 
had been suggested in my provisional decision. He was bound by the FSAVC 
policys retirement date.
Although the interest rate attached to his £11,000 student loan was low at 2.2%, he 
also had a professional studies loan of £14,000 with an annual interest rate of 5.5%, 
along with a graduate loan of £13,000 at 7.9%. The interest hed paid over six years 
was around £13,900 and the total amount of debt needing to be repaid with interest 
was around £53,900. This wasnt a small amount of interest.
Mr W said that the debt and interest was around 63% of the whole amount which he 
would have paid to buy added years up to the 16 year point he would have reached 
by age 41  and so to receive a significant enhancement to an immediate pension for 
life.
For all of the above reasons, Mr W was of the view that an added years arrangement would 
have suited his situation in 2005 well.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Confusion between the AVC and added years option
Ive noted Mr Ws position that he should have been advised to begin buying added years 
within the main scheme, and I understand the reasons as to why there may have previously 
been confusion around which AVC option Mr W thinks would have been appropriate for him. 
Mr Ws OPS is unusual in that the in house AVC option, as it is described within the 
scheme documentation, only provides enhanced death benefits  whereas in other types of 
OPS it would ordinarily confer a benefit on the member by way of money purchase 
enhanced retirement benefits.
The omission of in house options from the advice process
Mr W has been critical of Essential Money Ltds advice process in a number of respects  
but whilst I acknowledge the comments relating to, for example, meetings which Mr W said 
didnt take place, the most pertinent factor in my consideration of this case is that relating to 
the statement that there were no in house options available to Mr W. This was, both in my 
and the investigators view, a significant omission and one which we both agree denied Mr 
W the opportunity to make an informed decision as to the best way of making additional 
pension contributions.
But the presence of a mistake such as this doesnt necessarily mean that I would, or should, 
uphold the complaint. I also need to consider whether, had Mr W been given the right 
information, this would have made a difference to whether he would have opted for the 
FSAVC policy or the added years arrangement.
In my provisional decision, I set out my reasoning as to why I didnt think that any of the 
available in house options were suitable for Mr W, and that the FSAVC policy was the only 
reasonable route by which Mr W would be able to increase his retirement provision.
Mr W has, for a number of reasons set out above, claimed the contrary  that had he known 
about the alternative of buying added years, he would have chosen this over the FSAVC 
policy. In the following sections, therefore, I explore that possibility in more detail.
The likely perceived benefit to Mr W of added years, given his employment situation
An intrinsic aspect of Mr Ws assertion that he should have been advised to buy added years 
is the position that, if he had remained in the OPS for at least the 16 year period required to 
be able to immediately take the accrued benefits, he would have benefitted from the 
resulting guaranteed uplift in his pension benefits.
But there is a significant problem with this. Any argument that Mr W would have been better 
advised to begin buying added years on the basis that this would have produced enhanced 
benefits as a result of either 16 years service, or a full pension entitlement at age 55, would 
be rather at odds with Mr Ws portrayal of the likelihood of him remaining in that employment 
beyond his seven year contract when he initially raised his complaint.
A substantive element of Mr Ws initial claim was that he shouldnt have been advised to 
establish the FSAVC because of his likely short term contract. And although he was aware 
of the in house AVC option when making his complaint, which he believed would provide 
enhanced benefits in return for a fixed percentage of his salary (in a similar way to buying 
added years), he nevertheless sought a return of his FSAVC contributions. Mr W in fact 
considered that his contributions could have been better utilised in either debt repayment or 
buying a property.Indeed, even in his response to the provisional decision, Mr W has repeated his commentary 
about the interest he was paying on his debts. But as far as I can tell, he is nevertheless of 
the view that he should in fact have been advised to buy added years with his available 
funds  and that he is happy with the general principle of having enhanced his retirement 
benefits. I dont think I therefore need to dwell further on the previously argued position that 
his contributions would have been better diverted to the repayment of student debts.
But Ive given further thought to Mr Ws expressed view that it was his intent to remain in 
the armed forces, and how this should influence our consideration of the complaint
When initially raising his concerns, Mr W made several remarks in his submissions to both 
Essential Money Ltd and to this service regarding the possibility of his employment with the 
armed forces stretching beyond his then seven year contract, into which I understand he 
was already one or two years. And I think its reasonable to say that, when initially bringing 
the complaint, these were designed to cast doubt on the prospect of him remaining in the 
same employment beyond the existing contract, or attaining a full career commission 
contract. 
Some of the key components of Mr Ws submissions in that regard are as follows, beginning 
with the section entitled Contract Length in his initial complaint letter to Essential Money 
Ltd:
Issue
When I received the advice to start this AVC Pension Scheme I was on a short, 7-year 
only contract with no guarantee of extending to a longer contract.
What I understood at the time of receiving the advice and the pension
When I received this product, I was under the impression that I had a pension product that 
was appropriate to my circumstances within the military. That is to say, I understood that 
the AVC fell in line with the Armed Forces Pension Scheme (AFPS) key dates. These 
dates being the contract durations, immediate pension point and the retirement age.
My understanding now that I have investigated the issue
I now understand that the pension is not linked in any way to the different contract 
durations, it is not linked to the immediate pension point and it is not linked to the 
retirement age.
Why I believe the product was mis-sold
I believe that my pension product was mis-sold as I was on a short 7-year contract on 
receiving the advice. As such, the scope for me to reach full retirement within the military 
was speculative at best when I received the advice.
Had I been told of the risk of not progressing to further contracts within the military could 
affect my AVC payments and subsequently the final value then I would never have 
purchased this product. 
Later in the same letter, Mr W also set out the key points of his complaint as follows:
No consideration, discussion of risk or advice was had about my circumstances 
regarding my military contracts.No consideration, discussion of risk or advice was had about my circumstances 
following employment in the military. This includes likely reduced earnings on 
leaving the military and the corresponding key departure points for leaving the 
military.
No consideration, discussion of risk or advice was had regarding the effect on the 
value of the AVC if I had left the military following the initial 7-year contract, medium-
term contract or full-term contract.
Even in the unlikely event of me gaining a full-term contract that would take me to full 
retirement from the military, I would still fall short of the retirement date of 61years. 
No advice was given about this and as such I feel this contributes to my AVC being 
mis-sold.
In Mr Ws submission to this service, he then said the following:
When I joined the military in 2003 I was automatically placed on a Short
Commission. This is a short 7 year only contract with no guarantee of gaining further
contracts to take me to pensionable age. I was on this contract when I received the
FSAVC Pension product. 
Through a competitive process and had I subsequently been selected; only then would I 
have progressed to the next contract.
Neither of these two options [medium or full commissions] can be considered a flexible 
option as I have no choice or influence as to whether I am accepted for an extension to my 
Commission.
Essential Money Ltd had, in its response to Mr Ws complaint, in fact argued the opposing 
position  that Mr W would have been likely to remain in the armed forces beyond his 
seven year contract. And it relied on this as the basis for establishing the long term FSAVC 
contract. 
But in respect of this, Mr W said the following:
I have argued that I was on a short 7-year only contract when I received the [FSAVC] 
product and that there was no discussion or consideration of this.
Essential moneys argument is that:
''We note that military personnel do have options to take a short-term contract and then 
extend it. You told [the adviser] that in fact you would like to stay in the [armed forces] 
despite your reservations because of how competitive the [armed forces] was."
To clarify the first point, I wish to highlight that when I joined the military I was put on a short 
7-year contract. I did not have the option to go immediately onto a Medium or Full Career 
Commission contract (a contract that would take me half way or to full retirement). The 
option to extend the contract is based entirely on competition and merit. There was and is no 
guarantee of being successful to progress onto a longer contract. This is not a flexible option 
as I have no say in the outcome to extend my contract whether I want to or not.
Regarding the last sentence, Essential Money are stating that they knew that it was 
competitive to gain an extension to my 7-year contract. As such, they are confirming that they knew that I was on a 7-year only contract and knew that it was not a flexible option for 
me to extend my contract.
I think the cumulative weight and meaning of the above commentary is clear enough. Mr W 
didnt think it was likely, or certainly that it wasnt more likely than not, that his contract would 
be renewed  it wasnt up to him and it was a competitive selection process. And so even if 
Mr W had the intent of continuing his employment, he was of the view that his continued 
career in the armed forces beyond the seven year contract was unlikely, as indicated above, 
or at the very least not guaranteed. It was this, along with a mismatch with the scheme 
retirement age, which, in Mr Ws view, rendered the FSAVC policy unsuitable.
I therefore think its reasonable to assume that this was also Mr Ws view of his employment 
prospects in 2005, when receiving advice to establish the FSAVC policy. And so its in this 
context that I need to consider the suitability of the advice given  not with the benefit of 
hindsight in the knowledge that Mr W has in fact remained with the same employer. 
In doing so, theres also an important aspect to note regarding the scheme retirement date if 
a member doesnt attain the 16 years service to become entitled to an immediate pension. 
Had Mr W left that employment at the end of his seven year contract, he would have become 
a deferred member of the scheme and his pension entitlement would have been paid at the 
pension benefit age. For service up to 6 April 2006, this would have been age 60, and for 
service after that, it would have been age 65.
This is relevant for a couple of reasons. Mr W has said that the evidence hes produced 
demonstrates that there was no conversation around the retirement date written into the 
application form and that this was supplied by Essential Money Ltd with no regard to, or 
awareness of, the actual scheme retirement date. In his complaint submission, Mr W said 
the following:
Section 3 [of the application form] relates specifically to what the normal retirement age is 
for my employer, the military. In this section it was originally completed with the age of 60 by 
me and subsequently crossed out by me. This was done as I did not know what information 
was correct to be placed in this box. The form was then posted to [the adviser] who 
amended this section further as a result of my covering letter and not a conversation before 
I signed the application form.
Reference to a covering letter here might reasonably suggest some kind of communication, 
if not a conversation, about Mr Ws prospective retirement date. It was also recorded in the 
fact find that Mr W was seeking financial independence by age 60. And if Essential Money 
Ltd had selected a retirement age of 61 without Mr Ws involvement in that decision, I do 
think its an oddly specific age to have chosen. Nevertheless, even if a different 
interpretation is possible here  and I suspect Mr W may indeed remain of a different view 
on this - I dont think the enduring disagreement here matters for the following reason. 
Mr Ws wider point on this is that, by setting a retirement age for the FSAVC policy which 
was mismatched to that of the scheme, he would face exit fees for accessing his benefits 
earlier than this. But on the basis of the scheme rules, if Mr W hadnt secured a further 
contract (as I must assume from Mr Ws own comments as set out above was just as likely 
as not  and possibly at the time less likely), the bulk of his scheme benefits from that seven 
year period of employment wouldnt have been payable until age 65. At the time of the 
advice, Mr W would have been able to take his FSAVC policy benefits at any age after 50, 
which then changed to 55 in April 2010. And if hed waited until the point of taking the bulk 
of the scheme benefits, there would have been no exit penalty. Mr W could in fact have 
taken the FSAVC policy benefits with no exit fee four years earlier than the scheme 
retirement date for most of his deferred benefits of 65.And whilst this makes no difference to my consideration of the matter for the reason given 
above, I should address Mr Ws comment that he was bound by the set retirement age, 
and that my comment that he could take benefits from the policy at an earlier age was 
therefore factually incorrect. Im afraid I disagree  theres no factual inaccuracy here. The 
prospect of paying an exit fee doesnt mean that a policyholder is bound by a retirement 
date. 
And exit fees (upon which the regulator has more recently introduced a cap) can reflect 
many different aspects of a policy. Had an earlier retirement date been set, its possible that 
any upfront charges, or those levied throughout the reduced term of the policy, might have 
been higher to reflect a shorter period of investment and policy management fees, and also 
to offset the commission paid to the adviser and ensure this was fully recouped over the 
period of the policy. And so, setting an earlier retirement date wouldnt necessarily have 
resulted in lower overall fees. 
The likely perceived benefit to Mr W of added years if his contract wasnt renewed
Mr W has also said that, even if his contract wasnt renewed after seven years, he would still 
have accrued valuable benefits in that period, which would have been pro-rated when he 
came to retire.
And so, notwithstanding my comments above about the scheme retirement date of 60-65 for 
deferred members with fewer than 16 years service, Ive thought about the benefits and 
disadvantages of this option at the time. I should firstly comment on Mr Ws assertion that it 
was factually incorrect to deem the added years options to be too expensive. This wasnt a 
finding in my provisional finding. Rather, I said the following:
The option of buying added years was discounted by the investigator, and this hasnt 
been challenged by Mr W, presumably as the reasons given by the investigator are 
aligned with Mr Ws own stated concerns about the contract of employment he was in at 
the time  and future uncertainty in that regard.
But for clarity, I agree with the investigators conclusions here  Mr W was young and on a 
seven year employment contract. Under such circumstances, there would be limited 
benefit in buying added years when the salary at the date of leaving an employer is 
unlikely to have reached its full potential - combined with the relatively high cost of buying 
those added years.
My view on this remains the same. The advantage of added years for someone who is very 
likely to remain with the same employer until retirement is that they are paying a lower 
amount in the early years (as a set percentage of lower salary), but if they receive 
promotions and salary increases, or rise through the ranks, in subsequent years, they will 
have bought added years at an overall more economical cost. There would have been no 
such advantage for Mr W if hed left service after his seven year contract ended. 
Mr W has also said that my statement that his salary at the date of leaving was unlikely to 
have reached its full potential was factually incorrect, on the basis that even if hed left 
military service before age 55 his benefits would be pro-rated.  But if Mr W had left military 
service at the end of his seven year contract, as can fairly and reasonably be assumed to 
have been just as likely as not at the time of the advice on the basis of Mr Ws own 
commentary on this, hes unlikely to have attained the same salary as if hed stayed in 
service until age 55. As it is the final salary, or an average of yearly salaries towards retirement, which is the 
factor, along with years service, that determines the ultimate pension, the salary upon 
leaving is very important. As such, its entirely reasonable to say that the Mr Ws salary at 
the end of the seven year contract was unlikely to have reached its full potential in order to 
optimise the benefit of buying added years. And this would be unaffected by an pro-rating by 
the scheme  all that this would do is reduce the benefits payable due to the lower number 
of years in which added benefits have been bought. To repeat the point Ive made above, 
the advantage of beginning to buy added years early on in a career which is expected to be 
within the same employment until retirement age is that the same percentage of a lower 
salary being paid towards this when younger is, overall, cost effective. But as Mr W would 
have been prospectively leaving service without that later, significantly higher salary at 
scheme retirement age, or after 16 years service, he wouldnt receive the benefit of this.
Thinking then about the other comparative benefits or disadvantages of an FSAVC policy 
compared to buying added years, certainly the latter would have provided guaranteed future 
benefits. But although Mr W may consider that if hed been informed of this super secure 
option, he would have opted for it as the obvious choice, Mr W was not recorded as being a 
risk averse investor at the time. On the contrary, he was recorded as having a balanced-
adventurous risk outlook. And this isnt necessarily to be unexpected in a 26 year old with 
many years left to retirement and no financial dependants. 
The FSAVC offered both the flexibility of being able to be taken to Mr Ws next employment 
if his seven year contract wasnt renewed, and he would have had a policy within which he 
could invest in financial markets according to his balanced-adventurous outlook  for the 
remainder of his working life if required. Its worth noting that, at the time of the advice, the 
expected growth rates published by the then regulator, the Financial Services Authority, 
were higher than they are now  at 5%, 7% and 9% for low, medium and high growth rate 
potential respectively. As Mr W had a balanced-adventurous outlook, and a long term 
investment horizon in which to see the benefits of investment predominantly in equities, I 
think its reasonable to assume he might have expected, in terms of risk/reward, returns 
towards the upper end of those growth rates assumed by the regulator to be possible.
In terms of the additional pension from the scheme which Mr W might have expected from 
five years contributions towards buying added years, I note that in response to Mr Ws 
hypothetical questions - and I should also say at this point, in response to Mr Ws assertion 
that it was inappropriate for Essential Money Ltd to ask questions of the policy provider, that 
either party is entitled make further enquiries when making, or responding to, a complaint - 
the scheme administrator said that, if Mr W had served until 2020 (age 41), instead of until 
2033 (age 55), the additional three years available (maximum pensionable service was 
quoted as 34 years) would have been reduced to just over one year. 
This was based upon just under eight years additional contributions towards buying added 
years (from 2012 to 2020). Had this period of additional contribution been reduced to the five 
or so years left in Mr Ws contract in 2005, the same calculation methodology means that Mr 
W would have accumulated around half an extra year. Based upon Mr Ws salary at the time 
of the advice (and I appreciate this would likely have increased by the end of the seven year 
contract), this would have resulted in an additional annual pension of around £700 , plus 
three times this in additional lump sum (both revalued up to retirement). 
The cost of this over five years is difficult to determine, as the contributions as a percentage 
of salary required in 2005 rather than 2012 are likely to have been lower to reflect the longer 
period of those contributions being made. But if it was set at, say, 4%, this was a gross 
contribution of around £2,000 pa, or between £9,000 and £10,000 over five years.These are rough estimates, and its difficult to draw a direct comparison between this and 
the returns which might have been projected from the same level of contribution to an 
FSAVC policy, as the latter was projected on the basis of contributions being made up to 
retirement age. But I nevertheless think that these approximate figures are helpful in 
assessing the kind of comparison which might have been made in 2005 if the conversation 
around buying added years or contributing to an FSAVC policy had occurred.
And Im confident that the same level of contribution invested in a balanced-adventurous 
format in an FSAVC policy over the term to retirement, even at 55, would have projected a 
greater financial benefit than that which would be provided by the added years. It wouldnt 
have carried the same guarantees as the added years, but for the reasons given above, Im 
satisfied that Mr W was prepared, and in a position, to take investment risk at the time of the 
advice.
With the benefit of hindsight, having stayed with the same employer and with growth rates 
not having fulfilled their expectations, buying added years is now an obvious course of 
action, as Mr W suggests. But given his circumstances at the time (single, and so no 
spouses enhancement as a result of the added years to consider at the time) and the lack of 
certainty around the renewal of his contract, along with the limited benefit of buying added 
years for a prospective five year period, I think its more likely than not that the FSAVC would 
have been the more appealing option.
Summary
Mr W has made reference to the conversation which should have occurred at the time of the 
advice, in which the benefits of the added years option, including their guarantees and low 
cost, along with the ability to bolster and diversify his portfolio, should have been set out. 
But I would question the cost effectiveness and wisdom of buying added years at a relatively 
young age, and so with a proportionately lower salary than would be expected at retirement 
age, in a scheme of which an individual might only be a member for five or so more years. 
Mr W has said that the benefit would be pro-rated, and so even if his contract wasnt 
renewed, hed have received a benefit. This is indeed the case  but the actuarial 
amendment to the three additional years which might have been bought over the term left to 
age 55  so 31 years  when contributions might in fact only have been made for a further 
five years, would significantly undermine the value of the exercise. To reiterate what Ive said 
above, buying added years is  in broad terms - only really worthwhile if an individual 
anticipates being in the same employment until retirement and has the potential for pay rises 
and so a higher final salary. Judging by Mr Ws own comments in bringing the complaint, I 
dont think this expectation existed in 2005.
Im uncertain as to what Mr W means by added years being able to bolster and diversify his 
portfolio. They simply add to the number of years service  theres no investment return as 
such from which he might have benefitted. This could only be achieved through the FSAVC 
policy. 
Therefore, the only real benefit of added years if Mr W was to leave his employment after 
five further years would have been the guaranteed, but overall quite modest, increase in 
income at between 60 to 65. 
To be clear, my view is that the conversation about his options should certainly have taken 
place. Essential Money Ltd erred in not making Mr W aware of all of his options, including 
those connected to the scheme. And of all of them, the only two which could have benefitted 
him personally were either the FSAVC policy or the added years arrangement.But on a fair and reasonable assessment of the facts here, given the potential comparative 
benefits of a flexible, long term investment in financial markets, as a balanced-adventurous 
26 year old investor who had doubts as to the potential of his current contract being 
extended, I think its more likely than not that, even if Mr W was made aware of the added 
years option, he would nevertheless have opted to establish the FSAVC policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman