DRN-2935051
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a fee-paying 
Premier packaged bank account in September 2007. Amongst other things, they say that 
they were not given the detail about the benefits that the account came with. 
What happened
Our adjudicators assessed this complaint and they didnt think that Lloyds had mis-sold the 
Premier account. Mr and Mrs E disagreed with this and therefore this complaint was referred 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence that I 
have been provided with. With this in mind, and having considered everything that Mr and 
Mrs E and Lloyds have said and provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr and Mrs E were given a fair choice in taking out their 
account. I can see though that the account, when it was upgraded to the Premier account 
from the fee-free account from the evidence that I have been provided with was on balance 
taken out online without the presence of a member of staff. So, as Mr and Mrs E chose to 
upgrade their account from a fee-free account, I think that they wouldve been aware that the 
account was optional.
As this account was taken out online, Lloyds did not recommend the account to Mr and Mrs 
E. This means that it did not need to ensure that the account met Mr and Mrs Es needs. It 
did though need to provide enough details about the benefits to allow Mr and Mrs E to 
decide whether the account was right for them. 
I am satisfied though that the major benefits of the account wouldve been highlighted during 
the online application process - alongside the important terms and conditions. I say this 
because I can see that Mr and Mrs E registered mobile phones under the mobile phone 
insurance policy. They also made claims under the travel insurance and breakdown cover. 
This suggest that enough information about the benefits was provided to allow them to 
attempt to use the major benefits.
I note that Mr and Mrs E have explained that they held the benefits elsewhere but I cant see 
why they could not have cancelled their existing cover if they wished to do so.
I accept that Mr and Mrs E may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that 
the account came with, during the online application process. But I have not seen anything 
specific about Mr and Mrs Es circumstances, that makes me think they wouldve been put 
off from agreeing to it, had they been given even more information about the benefits that 
the account came with.
Mr and Mrs E have also explained that the benefits that the account came with changed over 
time. The terms and conditions of the account give Lloyds the provision to alter the benefits 
that the account came with, provided it gave notice of these changes. Mr and Mrs E have not 
said that they were unaware of the changes. So, given this I cant say that Lloyds did 
anything wrong in relation to this.
Mr E has mentioned that as Mrs E was added to the account in branch and therefore this 
should be considered as a separate sale. But adding a separate person to an existing 
packaged bank account is not considered as a separate sale - rather its a continuation of 
the existing packaged account.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, and perhaps with what Mr and Mrs E may now 
believe that their account has not provided value for money.
But based on what Mr and Mrs E has said, alongside all of the available evidence that I have 
seen, I cant say that its more likely than not that their Premier account was mis-sold in the 
first instance.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman