DRN-2904156
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that esure Insurance Limited didnt make it clear to him that by paying for 
his motor insurance in monthly instalments meant he would also be paying interest on his 
premiums. Had he known this Mr H says he would have paid for the insurance in one 
instalment. 
Mr H is also unhappy with how a call with esures staff member was handled on 4 November 
2020. 
To resolve things Mr H is seeking an apology and a refund of the interest (£69.31) that he 
paid for the policy. 
What happened
Mr H used an online comparison site to find his motor insurance policy, which then directed 
him to esures site to complete the application process online.  
In his application Mr H declared that he had a no claims bonus he could use to reduce the 
price of his policy. 
On 7 January 2020 esure sent Mr H a welcome letter which requested proof of the no claims 
bonus. The letter also referred Mr H to check policy documents, including the policy 
schedule which could be found in the online policy portal. 
Mr H wasnt able to evidence the years for which hed built up a no claims bonus because 
hed not driven under his own insurance for a few years and his last insurer no longer had 
any records available. Mr H therefore got in contact with esure to let them know. 
During this call Mr H was asked if hed like to check the price of cover without the no claims 
bonus, to which Mr H said he would. esure explained by how much the cost of the policy 
would increase because of this and told Mr H what the change would be to the monthly 
instalments. 
Mr H agreed to go ahead with the cover and the esure staff member told Mr H he would 
shortly receive an email to access his new documents online which he should read. 
On 4 November 2020 Mr H called esure after realising hed been charged interest on his 
premiums. Mr Hs call was to request that the interest be refunded to him as it hadnt been 
made clear that he was being charged interest on the policy premiums. esure let Mr H know 
that this wouldnt be possible. 
Mr H brought his concerns to our service and our investigator looked into what had 
happened. Our investigator said they could only look at the actions of esure. And they didnt 
think esure had done anything wrong as they had provided Mr H with information setting out 
the cost of the policy and the interest that would be payable. The investigator also said they 
didnt have any concerns with how esure had handled the telephone call on 4 November 
2020. 
Mr H disagreed. He said he was never sent any information about the interest rate and it 
was not mentioned to him during the call when the no claims bonus was removed. Mr H 
therefore felt this information had been hidden from him. Mr H also maintained his concerns 
about the call on 4 November 2020 as he felt esure had kept him on hold for a long time (30 
minutes) and the conduct of the esure staff member had been poor. 
As a resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I set out my conclusions, it should be made clear that my decision is limited to the 
actions of esure. 
Mr H is unhappy the information about how the policy was to be paid was not made clear to 
him and he says esure should return to him the interest he paid on the policy premiums. 
Having reviewed the available submissions, Im unable to agree. That is, I dont think esure 
have done anything wrong here. 
Mr Hs policy was taken out on a non-advised basis, so in the circumstances it was esures 
responsibility to provide Mr H with clear, fair and not mis-leading information about the policy 
including the monthly repayments, the interest payable and the total cost of the policy. 
esure has said before completing an application on their site, a customer is able to see 
information about the cost of the policy. esure has provided a sample screenshot to show 
what their customers see during the application process. This sets out the monthly cost, the 
annual premium and makes reference to the APR and the total cost of the cover. So it 
seems more likely than not Mr H wouldve seen information about the cost of the policy 
broken down like this during the application process. 
The welcome letter dated 7 January 2020 directed Mr H to the policy portal for details about 
his cover. The insurance schedule dated the same date included a section titled, Premium 
details which set out the annual premium before credit, the charge for the credit (quoting the 
APR) and the total amount payable. 
esure has also said pre-credit information would have been made available to Mr H and he 
wouldve had a cooling off period. The document esure have provided shows the cost of the 
credit including the fixed interest rate, the APR, the total cost of the cover, the cash price of 
the policy and the cost of the interest as well as the monthly payments. 
During the call in which Mr H told esure he wasnt able to evidence his no claims bonus, 
while esure didnt refer to the interest that would be chargeable on the premiums, Mr H was 
told a link would be sent to him so he could access his updated documents online. And Mr H 
was told how much more the policy would cost and what impact this would have on his 
monthly payments.In the call on 4 November 2020 the esure staff member discussed the paperwork that would 
have been available to Mr H. Mr H said that hed browsed over the documentation quickly 
and hadnt noticed the interest and it was only now that hed spotted it. Mr H also said it 
didnt matter if esure had sent him the information because he hadnt read it or agreed to it. 
esure explained that as Mr H had chosen to go ahead with the policy this was effectively his 
agreement to the arrangement set out for his cover. 
I understand Mr H feels strongly he wasnt given a choice about how to pay for the policy, 
but based on what Ive seen there is not enough for me to say that is what happened in this 
case. In his submissions Mr H says he selected the 12-month option to pay rather than the 
one-off annual figure, but he hadnt realised there was a high rate of interest on that option. 
So Im unable to say that Mr H was unaware there was a choice. 
And, based on the documentation that was made available to Mr H, it appears more likely to 
me than not, that Mr H was provided with enough information about how the policy was to be 
paid for and he didnt question this at the time. Mr H himself appears to accept he had 
information available to him, but he didnt look at it properly. So overall its difficult for me to 
say esure have done anything wrong here. 
Having listened to the call from 4 November 2020 Ive not heard anything to concern me 
about how esure dealt with Mr Hs enquiries about his policy. Its clear that initially the esure 
staff member didnt grasp Mr Hs concerns, but after doing so they did explain the situation 
to him. Mr H suggests he ended the call as he no longer wished to remain on hold while the 
staff member sought their manager to raise Mr Hs complaint. The internal screenshot esure 
has provided, which relates to this call, doesnt show that Mr H was on hold for 30 minutes 
as he has suggested. The call appears to have lasted from 3.45pm until 3.57pm (with total 
hold time of just over 6 minutes following the conversation with esure). So there is nothing 
Ive seen here to suggest esures handling of Mr Hs policy enquiries at this time was unfair 
or unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman