DRN-4032098
The complaint
Mr P complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of his claim following a
collision when driving. He says this impacted on the assistance his witness was prepared to
offer prejudicing the liability outcome, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P was involved in an accident in November 2021 when driving his car. He considered the
other driver to be at fault and identified a witness to provide a statement. Mr P contacted UKI
to make a claim and gave contact details for the witness. He says UKI didnt make
reasonable efforts to contact the witness or to ensure the statement was signed.
UKI says it contacted the witness in December 2021 by phone. The witness advised she had
already completed a form. UKI says this was for a credit hire company (CHC) Mr P had
engaged with. It asked her to complete its form and sent this by email. UKI contacted the
CHC in early February 2022 to see if it had received a completed witness form. It hadnt. UKI
says it contacted the witness again.
UKI says the witness agreed to send the information later that day. It wasnt received so UKI
says it called again and sent a link for her to use. Around a week later it received the CHCs
form via its link, but without a signature only a typed name. UKI says it forwarded this
information to the third-party insurer on 1 March 2022. It says it chased a response on 23
March. The third-party insurer wouldnt accept the statement without a signature. It asked if
the witness would be prepared to be interviewed. UKI says it emailed the witness the same
day but received no response.
UKI says it spoke to Mr P on 21 April 2022. He agreed to speak to the witness to ask for a
signed form to be provided. At the time of its final complaint response, on 18 July 2022, UKI
says it hadnt received this information. It says the third-party insurer offered to settle on a
50/50 basis, but this hadnt been agreed and the claim was still under investigation at this
time.
Mr P says he was told by UKI in its April 2022 call that it had contacted the witness asking
for a signed statement. He says this is a lie, as he had spoken to the witness shortly before
this call and she hadnt been asked to do this. Mr P wasnt satisfied with UKIs complaint
response and so referred the matter to our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint.
He didnt think UKI had been clear in its instructions to the witness regarding a signature.
Had instructions been clearer he though this wouldve avoided multiple contacts, which
deterred the witness from cooperating.
Our investigator didnt think UKI asked the witness for a signature after the third-party insurer
raised this in March 2022. He says the agent that confirmed this over the phone had given
false information. Because of the distress and inconvenience caused by this delay he
thought UKI should pay Mr P £200 compensation.
UKI didnt agree. It says the issue with delays had been addressed in a previous complaint
and compensation was provided. It says the witness wasnt prepared to be interviewed and
even after Mr P made contact, a signed statement wasnt provided until three months later in
July 2022. Because it didnt agree with this outcome UKI asked for an ombudsman to
consider the complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Ps complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My intention is to not uphold this complaint. I understand this will be a disappointment for Mr
P, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
UKIs handling of Mr Ps claim has been subject to a separate complaint, which has
previously been considered by our service. I wont comment on those issues here. My remit
is to consider the issues raised by Mr P after the complaint response he received in April
2022. More specifically the action taken by UKI to contact the witness and obtain information
to support a non-fault claim.
Ive read the information provided by UKI to see when contact was made with the witness
and understand what was discussed. It says there was a contact in early December 2021.
This was close to the time the claim was first registered. UKI refers to the witness being
hesitant to fill out another form. However, a form was sent to her by email to complete. I
understand from UKI that this form included a box for a signature to be provided. But this
form wasnt returned by the witness.
UKI explains there was no contact from the witness until a chaser was sent to her in
February 2022. Ten days later it says the CHCs form was sent back to it with a typed name,
not a signature.
Ive seen the form that UKI forwarded to the third-party insurer. In this the witness gave a
brief account of the accident and confirmed she thought it was the third-party, not Mr P, who
was at fault. There is a typed name in capitals, but no digital signature provided.
Given the delays in receiving this information from the witness, I think it made sense for UKI
to send this information over to the third-party insurer. But I recognise this wasnt UKIs form
and it didnt include the required signature.
UKI confirms it was asked by the third-party insurer on 15 March 2022 for the statement to
be signed and to also see if the witness would agree to be interviewed. It says it wrote to her
the same day to ask if she would consent to being interviewed. However, as our investigator
points out there is no indication that UKI asked the witness for a signature at this point.
Ive listened to a recording of the call that took place between Mr P and UKI on 21 April
2022. The call lasts for just under 40 minutes. Mr P discusses at length the issues in
progressing his claim. For both the repairs needed to his car and the liability decision. As
above Im not considering the delay in the repairs. But I have listened to UKIs agents
account of the interaction with Mr Ps witness.
Early in the call Mr P asks if the witness was contacted once it was known that the third-
party insurer needed a signature on the statement. UKIs agent refers to its system recordsand says, yes on the eighteenth. Mr P says he spoke to the witness after this date, and she
hadnt been asked to sign a hard copy. UKIs agent responds to say that the notes say its
been done.
Ive thought about whether a hard copy of the witness report was requested to include a
signature, and whether this issue has delayed the claim.
UKI confirms its electronic form has a box that the witness is expected to use to add a
signature. It explains that this can be done electronically directly onto the form. It doesnt
require the form to be printed and a signature physically added. However, to confuse matters
the witness didnt complete UKIs form. She completed the CHCs form without a signature.
Im not sure what contact UKIs agent was referring to on 18 April 2022. I havent seen
information to support this. The agent was correct in saying that the witness had been
contacted. But this was to ask if she was willing to be interviewed. It doesnt say she was
asked to complete the form with a signature or that this took place on 18 April. This contact
occurred earlier in March.
However, there was no requirement or request for a hard copy of the witness report to be
signed. This wasnt necessary given the form can be signed digitally.
I dont think its been shown that UKIs agent deliberately provided inaccurate information to
Mr P about when the witness was contacted. What he told him wasnt accurate, but the
agent was trying to read from system records whilst speaking to Mr P who was clearly
frustrated with UKIs claim handling. I think this was more likely a genuine mistake on the
agents part. UKI shouldve re-iterated its request for the form to be signed when it contacted
the witness on 15 March 2022. But I dont think this had a significant impact on the overall
claim handling time.
I say this because Mr Ps witness was asked for information at an early juncture in the claim.
This was chased up on several occasions. Yet it took several months for the witness to add
limited information to the form and send this electronically to UKI, without a signature. I can
understand that the witness didnt understand why she had been asked to complete forms
from both the CHC and UKI. But I think it was reasonably explained to her what was needed.
When this request was made again by Mr P in mid-April 2022, the witness took until mid-July
to reply. Regardless of the contact that was made with the witness, I think its fair to say she
was slow to respond.
The witness also declined to be interviewed. I acknowledge UKIs comments that it, cant be
too pushy with a witness. It also says its up to the customer to assist in such enquiries, as
set out in its policy terms. So, although I dont think the witness was contacted on the day
UKIs agent said she was  I dont think this has had a significant impact on the time taken to
reach a decision on liability following the accident Mr P was involved in.
I understand a decision on liability was reached after Mr P was sent UKIs final decision
relating to this complaint. I hope he is satisfied with this outcome. However, this doesnt form
part of my considerations here.
I note Mr P received compensation in relation to his earlier complaint and poor claim journey
he experienced. Im sorry he was disappointed with UKIs handling of the witness, and for
the inaccurate information its agent gave over the phone. But having considered all of this I
dont think it treated him unreasonably in relation to these points. So, I cant fairly ask it to do
more to resolve Mr Ps complaint.
I said I was intending to not uphold Mr Ps complaint. I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
UKI responded to say it accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr P didnt respond with any further comments or information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman