DRN-3826258
The complaint
Mr W complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proper affordability checks before it advanced his loans. 
What happened
Mr W took at least 10 loans from Morses. However, due to the age of the first two loans 
neither Morses nor Mr W has any information about them. However, Morses was able to 
provide details of the 8 loans summarised in the table below. It is only these loans which will 
be considered as part of this final decision. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
3 £150.00 04/10/2012 03/04/2014 32 £7.50
4 £150.00 20/12/2012 22/08/2014 32 £7.50
gap in lending
5 £150.00 10/02/2017 15/10/2018 33 £7.50
6 £100.00 31/10/2018 26/02/2019 33 £5.00
7 £300.00 26/02/2019 26/09/2019 33 £15.00
8 £150.00 21/05/2019 06/12/2019 33 £7.50
9 £300.00 26/09/2019 08/10/2020 33 £15.00
10 £400.00 10/01/2020 02/06/2021 53 £14.00
The weekly repayment column above is the cost per week per loan. So, where loans 
overlapped the cost will be greater. For example, when loans 2 and 3 were running at the 
same time Mr Ws weekly commitment was £15. 
Morses investigated the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans and so it didnt uphold his complaint. Mr Ws representative didnt agree 
and referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.  
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt think Morses made an 
unreasonable decision to lend loans 3  5 and so she didnt uphold those loans. However, 
she thought, loan 6 shouldnt have been provided due to problems Mr W had in settling loan 
5. From and including loan 7 the adjudicator concluded the lending was now harmful to Mr W 
because it had been unsustainable for him. 
Mr Ws representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment, but no further 
comments have been provided. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation. Ive summarised its response 
below.
Morses was aware that Mr W was having problems with his benefit payments which 
led him to taking longer to repay loan 5. 
For loan 6, Morses verified his benefits, while Mr Ws disposable income had gone 
down it was still enough to afford the loan repayment. 
Mr W for loan 6 and for loan 8 often paid more than the contractual amount due.
Mr W repaid loans 6, 7 and 8 without any difficulties. 
The loans were granted in a consecutive manner, but Mr W couldve chosen to end 
his relationship with Morses, had he wished. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr W could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ws income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr W. These factors include:
Mr W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr W.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr W was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, in particular made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ws complaint.It seems, that Mr Ws representative hasnt disagreed with the outcome that the adjudicator 
reached for this complaint  so I dont think there is any ongoing dispute about loans 3 - 5. 
As a result, I wont be making a finding about these loans
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses was right (or wrong) to have granted Mr 
W loans 6 - 10. 
Loan 6 
Loan 6 was taken out a couple of weeks after Mr W repaid loan 5. However, it took Mr W 
significantly longer than Morses had anticipated to repay loan 5. Loan 5 was contracted to 
be repaid over 33 weeks, but it took Mr W 88 weeks  more than twice as long  to fully 
repay it.
It is also worth saying here that although loans 3 and 4 were part of a different chain of 
lending, both of these loans also took considerably longer to repay than contracted. Loan 3 
took 78 weeks and loan 4 took 88 weeks to repay, against a term of 33 weeks for both loans. 
So, I think its fair to say, that Mr W had demonstrated a history of having quite significant 
repayment problems. 
Ive thought about what Morses says as the reason for the delay  but in this case, even 
though loan 6 was for a smaller sum the fact it had taken Mr W so much longer to repay loan 
5 means I dont think Morses checks went far enough before loan 6 was approved.
Before this loan was approved, Morses asked Mr W for details of his income and
expenditure. Mr W declared a weekly income of £117.05 and outgoings of £72.50. Leaving 
£44.55 per week in disposable income. So, based on this information Morses may have felt 
the loan was affordable. Its also worth saying here that Mr Ws income had dropped 
significantly since loan 5 was granted. 
I do think though, given what had gone on that Morses needed to do more checks before 
granting this loan such as verifying the information he had provided. But I dont need to 
consider what the further checks may have shown, in order to reach a fair outcome because, 
I think there is enough in the information Mr W provided along with the repayment problems 
for loan 5 (and the historic problems) to uphold this loan and Ive explained why below.
In my assessment of the complaint, the fact that Mr W had significant (and recent repayment 
problems) along with some historic problems and with what I think is fair to say a modest 
income means I dont think Morses ought to have granted this loan as there was a significant 
risk that hed not be able to afford this loan and would therefore, likely need further credit in 
the future. 
I uphold Mr Ws complaint about this loan. 
Loans 7  10 
For these loans, Morses has shown that it asked Mr W for details of his income and 
expenditure. For these loans Mr W declared a weekly income of between £213 and £272. 
And after his declared outgoings, Morses was aware his weekly disposable income was 
between £98 and £180 per week. 
Based solely on Mr Ws income and expenditure information Morses couldve been confident 
he would be able to comfortably afford the weekly repayments he was committed to making 
of no more than £29.But its arguable whether these checks went far enough considering how long Mr W had 
been indebted to Morses, his future weekly commitment, what Morses already knew about 
his lending history and Mr Ws repayment problems. For example, Mr W typically returned 
for further borrowing on the same day a previous loan had been repaid. By now, it wouldve 
been reasonable for Morses to have at the very least, started to have verified the information 
it was being given. Ive not seen anything to suggest it carried out further checks in this case. 
However, I dont think I need to try and establish, in this case, whether a proportionate check 
wouldve led Morses to conclude these loans were unaffordable for Mr W. 
So, in addition to looking at the checks that Morses did Ive also looked at the overall pattern 
of Morses lending history with Mr W, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further 
loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ws case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 7. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Mr W was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr W had taken out three loans in 2 years in this chain of lending. 
So Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr W was having to 
borrow further to cover a long-term short fall in his living costs. 
From his first loan, Mr W was typically provided with a new loan on the same day a 
previous loan was repaid, and some the loans were used to fully repay the previous 
one. For example, it seems that some of loan 7 went towards repaying loan 6. To 
me, this is a sign that Mr W was using these loans to fill a long-term gap in his 
income rather than as a short-term need.  
Over the course of the lending relationship, Mr Ws weekly commitments generally 
either increased or remained the same. There was no time when his commitments 
significantly decreased. Which may have given Morses confidence that Mr W was no 
longer reliant on these loans. However, the fact that these loans were lent in a 
consecutive manner and at times overlapped, ought to have led it to realise these 
loans werent sustainable anymore. 
Mr W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. Loan 10 was 
taken out 32 months after Mr Ws first loan in the second chain and was to be repaid 
over the longest term  53 weeks. His final loan was the largest capital loan to date 
and was four times the value of the first loan in this lending chain. In addition, loan 9 
was still outstanding which led to weekly repayments of £29 which is significantly 
more than the £7.50 weekly repayments Mr W started with in this chain of lending. 
Mr W had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over 
an extended period.
I think my view on these loans being unsustainable for Mr W is further reinforced by 
the fact it took him significantly longer to repay loans 9 and 10. Loan 9 took 54 weeks 
to repay compared to a term of 33 week. While loan 10 took 73 weeks to repay 
compared to a loan term of 53 weeks. 
I think that Mr W lost out when Morses provided loans 7 - 10 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr W borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Ws ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.So, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about loans 6 - 10.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr W from loan 6, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr W may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr W in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr W would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr W loans 6 - 10.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr 
W which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Mr W the total of A plus B.
D. Morses should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Ws credit file 
in relation to loan 6. The overall pattern of Mr Ws borrowing for loans 7  10 means 
any information recorded about them is adverse, so Morses should remove these 
loans entirely from Mr Ws credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint in part.  
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr W as Ive directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 Robert Walker
Ombudsman