DRN-4019306
The complaint
Ms P has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, didnt fairly or 
reasonably deal with her claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Although Ms P is represented in her claim by a third party, I will refer to her throughout for 
ease.
What happened
In March 2012 when staying overseas, Ms P was given a scratch card offering a small gift. 
This gift  a bottle of wine  had to be picked up at a specific resort and Ms P and her 
partner were invited to attend a sale presentation. Whilst there, she bought a weeks holiday 
to be taken at a specific resort within a year, along with the right to take a holiday at an 
affiliated resort within a further specified period.
Ms P and her partner then took up their weeks holiday in November 2012. She was 
disappointed with the standard of accommodation being offered and complained. They were 
moved to better accommodation. She then entered into a timeshare contract agreeing to pay 
€5,937. She paid for this with her Barclaycard.
After having difficulty in successive years to book holidays they wanted, Ms P complained to 
Barclaycard that the sale had been misrepresented. Further questions were asked of Ms P 
and her complaint fizzled out. 
This was resurrected in 2017. Ms P submitted a claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 that the sale had been misrepresented and that her statutory rights had 
been breached, in that the purchase agreement breached Spanish law. No final response 
was received from Barclaycard. So, Ms P brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided by both Ms P and Barclaycard. He didnt 
think the suppliers had misrepresented the sale to her. The initial view was completed in 
November 2020. Ms Ps representative made further submissions. Our investigator 
responded in further views in March and June 2022. This specifically covered whether these 
claims amounted to a breach of contract under section 75 but didnt believe so.
Ms P remained dissatisfied and asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 20 February 2023 clarifying my reasons why I wouldnt 
be upholding Ms Ps complaint.
Both Ms P and Barclaycard confirmed they had no further comments to make.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. As I 
received no further comments from either party, what follows is similar to my explanations 
within that decision.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
I also take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and 
codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 means that, in certain circumstances, if Ms P 
paid for goods or services using certain types of credit (even in part), and there was a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of those goods or services, the 
creditor can also be held responsible. There are other conditions which need to be met but 
nothing specific which applies in Ms Ps case.
Was the sale misrepresented to Ms P?
The main aspect of Ms Ps claim is that the sale was misrepresented to them. She 
specifically says that:
The product was sold as a financial investment.
Theyve found it difficult to book holidays and the standard of the holiday 
accommodation is poorer than she was led to expect. In viewing a property in March 
2012, she was led to believe the properties would be of similar nature.
Ms P first attended a presentation in March 2012. Whilst there, according to the contracts 
she signed, she bought:
one week accommodation in a one bedroom apartment, maximum occupancy of two 
adults and two children.  The contract has duration of twelve (12) months
an agreement with the Company (X) for the facility of accommodation at one of their 
affiliated resorts . Contract has a duration of thirty-six (36) months, commencing 
20/03/2013
In November when Ms P and her partner took their weeks holiday, they took out a purchase 
contract for a timeshare. This offered them an apartment to sleep four in a specific week a 
year from 2013 onwards.
In their response of 7 April 2022, Ms Ps representatives confirm that she no longer has a 
complaint about the first product as its accepted this was not a timeshare.
Ms Ps representatives argued the second product is a timeshare because the contract has 
a duration of more than a year. 
I note the third contract Ms P took out in November 2012 confirms she was buying a 
timeshare whereas this second contract doesnt state this. I also note there is no mention of 
administrative, membership, nor maintenance fees which I would expect to see if this second 
contract was a timeshare arrangement. I appreciate Ms Ps representatives argument that the lack of this information is part of their allegation Ms P was treated unfairly.
Having reviewed both the second and third contracts as well as Ms Ps testimony, dated 
17 April 2017, Im not convinced the second contract amounts to a purchase of a timeshare. 
However I accept its duration means that it can be considered as a long-term holiday 
product contract under the 2010 regulations.
Im aware that Ms Ps representatives seem to assert that the third contract was related to 
the first presentation Ms P attended in March 2012. However this doesnt match the 
paperwork which states that only in November 2012 did Ms P and her partner buy a 
timeshare. The purchase of a timeshare also committed them to paying administrative and 
membership fees. I can see these were all part of the total Ms P paid with her Barclaycard. 
In considering the allegations of misrepresentation, Ive looked at what Ms P has said. She 
cant recollect very much of what was said in any of the presentations she attended. In 
deciding whether there was a misrepresentation, I have to be satisfied that the alleged 
representations were likely to have been made, were likely to have been factual and likely to 
have been untrue. I therefore find it difficult to say that the allegations succeed given the 
facts and circumstances. Thats to say that Ms P has, by her own admission, acknowledged 
that she cant remember much of what was said to her and her partner. 
Ms Ps testimony is unclear about one of the main complaint points: that she was led to 
believe these products were being sold as financial investments. Theres nothing to suggest 
these could be sold on nor have I seen anything to suggest these were sold as an 
investment. Based on the time-limited nature of the purchase within the second contract, Im 
not sure why or how that would be considered as a financial investment.
Ms P states she was impressed with the standard of the accommodation that she was 
shown. I dont doubt this was a contributing factor to taking up the option of the week costing 
€1,000 in November 2012. I can also see she was dissatisfied with the accommodation then 
provided thinking it was shabby. However after complaining, she was offered alternative 
accommodation which I believe was suitable. But in any case Ms P has confirmed she is no 
longer complaining about the first contract.
Overall Im satisfied theres insufficient evidence the supplier misrepresented the holiday or 
timeshare sale to Ms P. I dont believe Barclaycard acted unfairly in rejecting Ms Ps 
section 75 claim.
Was Ms P subject to an unfair relationship with Barclaycard?
Its worth confirming that Ms Ps original complaint both to Barclaycard and our service 
contained no specific allegation about her being subject to an unfair relationship with 
Barclaycard. However I have considered this because of the allegations Ms Ps 
representatives have made that she was subject to regulatory breaches under Spanish law.
Section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act allows a court to determine whether an unfair 
relationship exists between the creditor (Barclaycard in this case) and the debtor (Ms P) 
because of any of the terms of the credit agreement or of any related agreement; the way 
the creditor has enforced their rights under the credit agreement; or any other thing done by 
(or on behalf of) the creditor before or after the making of the credit agreement. 
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Ms P and 
Barclaycard was unfair for the purpose of section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I have 
decided to consider it if it applies here. This also means Barclaycard has not specifically 
considered these aspects which is why its fair I have made this a provisional decision.The detailed allegations that the supplier was in breach of timeshare regulatory requirements 
is contained in the submission made by Ms Ps representative on 7 April 2022, although 
previous reference has been made to the key points. These include:
Lack of key information relating to the second contract, as required under the 
timeshare regulations.
No information about cooling-off period or inclusion of standard withdrawal forms.
The implication the contract was in perpetuity.
Overall its argued that the contracts are in breach of Spanish law. And that these breaches 
were purposeful and acting against public policy.
As far as Im aware Ms Ps representatives have taken no action to see what a Spanish 
court would consider about this agreement and what impact that may have on the 
agreements enforceability. I cant predict what conclusion a Spanish court is likely to reach 
on this agreement. So although I have considered this aspect, I dont believe this leads to 
the agreement being unenforceable nor does it mean Ms P is subject to an unfair 
relationship.
I have reviewed the contractual terms and whether the actions of the supplier would lead a 
court to find the relationship was unfair. Im not persuaded a court would on this occasion.
The paucity of both verbal and written evidence about the sales process means I find it 
difficult to substantiate Ms Ps claims that she was treated unfairly. The sales of timeshares 
more often concentrate on the positive aspects than on any downsides. However I can see 
the written information did provide a clear breakdown of the costs involved and the 
commitment Ms P was agreeing.
I therefore cant see any evidence of detriment given the nature of the allegations in question 
along with the facts and circumstances of this complaint. 
Having considered all the evidence presented to our service, I wont be asking Barclaycard 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Ps complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman