DRN-3944524
The complaint
Mr T complains about how BUPA Insurance Limited handled his private medical insurance 
policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr T has a private medical insurance policy with BUPA which 
renews in August each year. BUPA wrote to Mr T on renewal and said that it would 
collect the premium from his credit card on or after 5 September 2022.
On 30 August 2022, Mr T contacted BUPA in order to change how he paid the premium. 
He wanted to pay by monthly direct debit rather than one single payment from his credit 
card. BUPA agreed the change but on 4 September 2022, BUPA collected the full  
payment from Mr Ts credit card in error. 
On 15 September 2022, Mr T complained to BUPA about what had happened and 
contacted it several times for a response. On 12 October 2022, BUPA apologised for 
taking the full premium in error and said that it had issued a refund cheque. It also 
offered Mr T compensation of £200. BUPA asked Mr T for evidence of the credit card 
interest Mr T accrued because of its error. 
On 13 October 2022, BUPA sent Mr T a cheque for the refunded premium. It also sent 
Mr T cheques for £50 and £163.49 on 18 October 2022 and 1 November 2022 
respectively in relation to his loss, distress and inconvenience.  
Mr T says that BUPA held the premium it took in error for nearly two months, despite 
numerous phone calls and correspondence. He says that BUPAs error and its handling 
of the matter has wasted his time and caused him considerable distress and 
inconvenience. He wants BUPA to waive his annual premium.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that BUPA had 
acknowledged that it had made a mistake. The investigator said it was regrettable that it 
took BUPA four weeks to issue the refund cheque, but it had corrected its error and paid 
Mr T compensation within the timeframe it had promised. She didnt think that BUPA was 
at fault in asking Mr T to provide evidence of his loss. The investigator thought that the 
compensation BUPA had paid was fair and reasonable. 
Mr T didnt agree with the investigator. As there was no agreement between the parties, 
the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that BUPA made an error in collecting the premium from Mr Ts credit 
card account rather than by monthly direct debit. The remaining issue for me to determine is 
what steps, if any, BUPA should take to put matters right. 
When mistakes like the one here happen, we look at the effect of the error on the individual. 
In this case, Mr T incurred interest on his credit card account. I dont think that BUPA was at 
fault in asking Mr T to provide evidence of that  it was seeking to establish his loss. BUPA 
has reimbursed Mr T for the additional interest he incurred as a result of its error. I think that 
it has dealt fairly and reasonably with Mr Ts loss.
Mr T was put to the trouble of contacting BUPA several times about something that should 
have been fairly straightforward. BUPA has explained that it couldnt refund the premium 
payment to Mr Ts credit card as it doesnt retain credit card details after the method of 
payment is changed. It would have been helpful if it had explained that to Mr T. I can 
understand Mr Ts frustration that it took BUPA several weeks to refund the payment it had 
taken in error. In addition, it was confusing that the compensation payment was made by two 
cheques with no explanation.  
BUPAs error and its handling of the matter caused Mr T distress and inconvenience at an 
already difficult time. Ive thought about this matter carefully. I think that the compensation of 
£200 BUPA has already paid is fair and reasonable in this case. In reaching that view, Ive 
taken into account the nature, extent and duration of the distress and inconvenience BUPAs 
actions caused Mr T. Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but theres no basis on which I can fairly 
direct BUPA to waive his annual premium.
Considering everything, I think that the steps BUPA has already taken to put matters right 
are fair and reasonable in this case.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman