DRN-4423904
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt do enough 
to protect them when they were the victims of a crypto investment scam.
Mr and Mrs H are being supported by a representative, but for ease, Ill refer to Mr and 
Mrs H throughout this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our Investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. Ive very carefully considered all the evidence provided and Id like to assure 
Mr and Mrs H that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent considered 
it, but Ive focussed instead on what I believe to be important to the outcome of this 
complaint. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I should first point out that there was a reasonable expectation on NatWest to protect 
Mr and Mrs H from financial harm, irrespective of what happened to the money after if 
left their NatWest account. And so, Im considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about 
NatWest on that basis. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs H authorised the disputed payments made to their crypto 
exchange account (N). The payments were requested by Mr and Mrs H using the legitimate 
security credentials provided by NatWest, and the starting position is that banks ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made 
as instructed.
However, taking account of good industry practice, Ive considered whether NatWest 
shouldve done more to protect Mr and Mrs H. 
Mr and Mrs H began trading through a company Ill refer to as (P). They were assigned an 
account manager (the scammer) with who they built up a trusting relationship. Mr and Mrs H 
made two payments as part of this scam. The first was on 2 November 2022 (£1,300) and 
the second was on 7 March 2023 (£4,103). NatWest has told us that both payments resulted 
in a written online warning being sent. Mr and Mrs H said the warning was generic and 
appears before most legitimate payments they make.
I dont believe the first payment for £1,300 was sufficiently unusual to have alerted NatWest 
to the possibility of a fraud or scam. While I accept it is larger than other payments made on 
Mr and Mrs Hs account (which was relatively inactive), its not an unusually large amount in 
more general terms, and I must bear in mind that its not uncommon for people to make 
large one-off payments to a new beneficiary in a normal operating bank account. And so, I 
dont think NatWest acted unreasonably by not doing more than providing the written online 
warning to Mr and Mrs H. 
The second payment was arguably more unusual than the first  and was made shortly after 
Mrs H transferred circa £5,000 into the joint account from her personal account. But the 
payment amount alone is not the only consideration here, and I dont think there were 
enough red flags for NatWest to have reasonably expected it to have made further enquiries 
about this payment before processing it. I say that because the payment wasnt remarkably 
unusual or of a significantly high value. And it had been four months since Mr and Mrs H 
made the £1,300 payment, and so there was no pattern of payments emerging that wouldve 
reasonably caused NatWest obvious concern. 
So, taking all this into account, I dont think it was unreasonable of NatWest not to have 
flagged either of the payments Mr and Mrs H made to N as suspicious and directly 
intervened before processing them.  
Having said that, its worth pointing out that at the time these payments were made, the 
prevenance of crypto investment scams meant many firms, including NatWest, recognised 
that crypto related payments carried a risk of the likelihood of the transaction being related to 
a fraud or scam. Against that backdrop wed expect NatWest to provide, at the very least, a 
tailored written warning specific to the risks associated with crypto investment scams. With 
that in mind, Ive carefully considered the online written warning Mr and Mrs H received from 
NatWest and whether it shouldve resonated enough with them to alert them to the possible 
risks. Having done so, I think NatWests tailored warning was reasonable here. Ill explain 
why. 
I accept Mr and Mrs Hs point that the warning is generic, insofar as NatWest has said it is 
generated when any online payment or payment to a new payee is made. But the warning is 
clearly headed Protect your money from fraud and scams and asks the customer to say 
what the payment is for. 
Mr and Mrs H shouldve selected the investing in crypto option which, if they had, wouldve 
generated the following warning:
WARNING: Thinking of investing in Bitcoin or other cryptocurrency?
Scammers will often contact you offering to help you invest in cryptocurrency  and 
will offer to guide you through opening a cryptocurrency account. If you cannot 
access the cryptocurrency wallet or you cannot withdraw money from it, this is a 
scam and you should stop making payments immediately. 
Many cryptocurrency sellers are not registered with the UK Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). We suggest you follow the FCA advice regarding cryptocurrency 
providers which can be found here . 
Mr and Mrs H dont think this warning went far enough. In particular, theyve said they 
opened the accounts with P and N themselves and had checked the FCA register and 
found no negative reviews. Mr and Mrs H dont think the warning is specific to their situation 
and thought NatWest shouldve warned about the use of remote access software and 
unrealistic high rates of return.
Ive thought about this carefully, and I do think NatWests warning was relevant enough to 
Mr and Mrs Hs situation. Mr and Mrs H were contacted by P offering them help to invest. I 
accept this was prompted by Mrs H making an enquiry with P, but I think its clear the scammer was helping them through the investment process. Mr and Mrs H said the 
scammer told them they needed to open an account with N to purchase crypto. Again, 
Mr and Mrs H opened the account with N themselves but were guided through that process 
by the scammer. Im also mindful that Mr and Mrs H said they questioned the scammer 
about the need to open an account with N  suggesting they felt some level of concern at 
this request. 
I agree with Mr and Mrs H that the use of remote access software is a clear hallmark of a 
scam. But I dont think specific reference to that not being in NatWests written warning was 
a detriment to them. Mr and Mrs H said the scammer directed them to download remote 
access software. Even if they were unaware of the risks this posed, theyve said the 
scammer told them the software was to let him show them how to manage their 
accounts with both [N and P]   eventually he would train [Mr and Mrs H] on how to 
invest themselves for the future. So again, I think its clear the scammer was helping and 
guiding Mr and Mrs H through the investment process, whether that was via the use of 
remote access software or not. 
At the time of the first payment Mr and Mrs H had access to their accounts with N and P. 
And theyve said they were able to make a withdrawal. And whilst it seems there were some 
negative online reviews about P, there was no regulatory FCA warning about P until 
December 2022. And so, aside from the fact Mr and Mrs H were being helped through the 
investment process by P, I can understand how some parts of NatWests written warning 
werent obviously relevant to Mr and Mrs Hs situation at that time. 
But Im mindful of the fact that Mr and Mrs H wouldve received this warning again when they 
made the 7 March 2023 payment. By this time, theyd lost contact with the scammer (before 
being contacted by another representative of P)  and I can see from the email exchanges 
with P that Mr and Mrs H had some concerns about the legitimacy of the investment. There 
was also now an FCA warning from December 2022 suggesting that P was a clone of a 
legitimate investment firm. 
So, whilst the first warning sent by NatWest in November 2022 was unlikely to have given 
rise to any concern  and I wouldnt automatically expect further due diligence to take place 
before another payment is made  in this particular case I think the second warning 
shouldve prompted Mr and Mrs H to reflect on the situation they were in and undertake 
further checks. And if they had, I think it likely they wouldve realised they were the possible 
victims of a scam and not proceeded with the £4,103 payment.  
Taking everything into account, I dont disagree that Mr and Mrs H have been the victims 
of a sophisticated and cruel crypto investment scam. But I think NatWest took reasonable 
action to try and protect them. So, I dont think its fair or reasonable to hold NatWest 
accountable for Mr and Mrs Hs loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman