DRN-3493871
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs D complain that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have unfairly refused to refund 
over £60,000 they say they lost to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr S and Mrs D authorised the disputed payments they made to 
FXBFI (trading as 101 Investing) using their Lloyds debit card. The payments were 
requested by them using their legitimate security credentials provided by Lloyds, and 
the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether there was any obligation on Lloyds to have 
prevented Mr S and Mrs D from making the payments to the merchant. But Im not 
satisfied there was. At the time they made the payments in January/February 2021, 
FXBFI was regulated in Cyprus and had permissions to operate in the United 
Kingdom by the FCA. So, there was nothing to suggest that they were paying a 
scammer at the time rather than placing an investment with a legitimate offshore 
broker dealing in high risk trades. 
I appreciate those permissions have since been withdrawn by the FCA in April 2021. 
But this was after Mr S and Mrs D had made their payments. So, even if there was 
any reason for Lloyds to have prevented the payments they made (which I do not 
consider there was), Im not persuaded that any questioning or discussion about the 
purpose of the payments would have likely resulted in Mr S and Mrs D thinking they 
were falling for a scam. At the time of payment, they would have only found that the 
merchant was an offshore broker that had temporary permissions to operate in the 
United Kingdom. 
Lloyds has no obligation to protect its customers from bad bargains or to provide 
investment advice. So, given the circumstances here, I dont consider Lloyds were 
under any obligation to prevent the payments from being made under any of the 
industry codes Mr S and Mrs D have cited.
Ive also considered whether Lloyds dealt with Mr S and Mrs Ds chargeback claim 
fairly, as there are some circumstances where funds can be recovered via a 
chargeback dispute under Visa reason code 53 (later re-coded by Visa to 13.5) to 
address cases whereby a binary options (or forex) merchant has imposed obstacles 
to prevent cardholders from withdrawing funds.
However, the Visa rules required Lloyds to present evidence that Mr S and Mrs D 
had an available balance and that they had tried to withdraw sums equal to, or less 
than, their available balance on the same day. Visa require specific evidence in the 
form of a dated screenshot on the day the withdrawal was requested, but they have 
also confirmed to this service that they would consider a dated acknowledgement 
from the merchant advising that the withdrawal request will be processed, which 
includes the amount of the request, as sufficient evidence to support the chargeback 
for 13.5, and an additional screenshot would not be required if this information was 
presented.
I can see that Mr S and Mrs D did provide Lloyds with screenshots of their trading 
account with 101 Investing. But these did not meet the evidentiary requirements for a 
Visa chargeback to be pursued as set out above. Therefore, I do not think Lloyds 
acted unreasonably by declining to pursue a chargeback under this particular code in 
these circumstances.
Mr S and Mrs D have also referenced reason code 13.3 (services not as described). 
However, for claims under this reason code to have succeeded at Visas final stage 
of arbitration, Lloyds would have needed to provide evidence that the broker made 
written representations to them guaranteeing an amount of profit/return they were 
due to receive. I have not seen any evidence that Mr S and Mrs D received any such 
representations from the broker, so Im satisfied Lloyds were correct to conclude that 
they didnt have any prospects of success at arbitration under reason code 13.3 
either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr S and Mrs D, and Im sorry to 
hear about the loss they have incurred. However, Im not persuaded that Lloyds can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for that loss, so I will not be asking it to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman