DRN-3605025
The complaint
In summary, Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt recover money paid 
under a direct debit, using the direct debit guarantee. 
What happened
In around September 2021, Mr M tried to change energy suppliers. He was originally told 
that the switch couldnt take place as his current energy supplier objected to the switch. 
Mr M said that he cancelled the switch application. But he subsequently noticed that the 
energy supplier he had applied to join, had taken two direct debit payments despite him 
cancelling the switch application. That energy supplier went into administration.
In October 2021 the energy supplier that took over accounts for the supplier Mr M had 
originally applied to switch to, suggested to Mr M that he contact his bank to make a claim 
against the payments. 
Mr M contacted Nationwide on 11 October 2021 and asked it to raise a direct debit indemnity 
claim for the payments taken by the energy supplier. It investigated his request and 
explained why it was unable to refund the payments that had been taken. It said that the 
energy supplier was in liquidation and the direct debit guarantee didnt cover situations 
where companies went into liquidation. It acknowledged that he hadnt been contacted with 
an answer to his concerns, and organised for £25 compensation to be paid into his account. 
Mr M referred his concerns to our service. One of our investigators explained to Mr M why 
he wasnt upholding his complaint. In summary he said he didnt think Nationwide had done 
anything wrong when it said it couldnt recover the payments; where the business that had 
collected the payment had gone into administration. And he went on to say that the direct 
debit guarantee didnt cover where there was a dispute between the parties. 
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me for review. I asked the 
investigator to ask Mr M if he had evidence that he had told the energy supplier he had 
applied to, that didnt want to proceed with switch and the date this occurred. I also asked if 
he had received any payments from his old account, and if he had evidence of this. 
In response Mr M said he had received payment back from the business that took over the 
energy supplier that had gone into administration. So, he said he was whole in terms of 
what had left his account.  
He believed Nationwide had failed to act on the direct debit guarantee and he should be 
compensated for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. He also forwarded the e-
mail from the energy supplier he wanted to switch to, which explained that his current 
supplier had objected to the switch. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr M has told us that the monies taken by direct debit, by the energy supplier he says he 
cancelled signing up with, have been refunded by the business that took over that 
companys customer accounts. So, the monies that were in dispute have been refunded to 
him. But he still thinks Nationwide failed to act on the direct debit guarantee, and that he 
should be compensated for the trouble and upset he says hes been caused.
I can understand Mr M finding out the energy supplier that taken the direct debit payments 
had gone into administration, and trying to get his money back, was very frustrating for him. 
But I dont think Nationwide has done anything wrong in respect of the direct debits that were 
taken. 
I say this because it seems to me there was an underlying dispute between Mr M and the 
energy supplier as to whether there was an energy supply agreement in place between 
them. Mr M says he cancelled the switch agreement with the new provider he had applied to 
switch to. But the e-mail hes sent when asked to evidence that, relates to him being told 
about his original energy supplier objecting to the switch. So, there does seem to be some 
confusion as to how the energy supply agreement came into being.
The direct debit guarantee scheme is designed to protect customers if there is an error in the 
payment of their direct debit, such as if the wrong amount is taken or if a payment is taken 
on the wrong date. But Mr M appears to be saying that he didnt have an agreement in 
place, as he had cancelled his switch application. And the direct debit guarantee scheme 
isnt designed to be used where, as in Mr Ms case, there is a dispute as to whether there 
was any agreement in place between the parties.
Also, by the time Mr M contacted Nationwide in October 2021, the energy company had 
encountered financial difficulties and was in administration. And I dont think it was wrong of 
Nationwide not to agree to pay a refund in respect of a company that was in administration, 
rather than Mr M making a claim through the administrators for that company. 
Nationwide has accepted that there was a delay in updating Mr M about his claim. It has 
paid him £25 compensation for that. And I think this is sufficient compensation for the delay 
in updating him about his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above I dont think Nationwide Building Society has done 
anything wrong in respect of Mr Ms direct debit guarantee dispute. I dont uphold his 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman