DRN-2824892
The complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank PLC (TSB) blocked his accounts when he tried to buy foreign 
currency ahead of a holiday, then closed it after they completed its review. This complaint 
relates to his Classic Plus account and his credit card account.
What happened
Our investigator has already given a detailed account of the background to Mr Ds complaint, 
so I will only detail what I consider to be the key points in this decision. On 20 August 2019, 
Mr D tried to buy foreign currency at a currency exchange point, ahead of a holiday. The 
payment was declined so Mr D contacted TSB to find out why. He was told his account was 
blocked and was asked to provide proof of entitlement for three payments that had gone into 
his account.
Mr D provided bank statements in respect of two of the payments, which TSB accepted. Mr 
D said the third payment was the proceeds of a car sale. He provided an invoice relating to 
the sale but couldnt provide the DVLA document TSB wanted to see.
On 29 August 2019, TSB issued its final response to Mr Ds complaint. It said it hadnt made 
a mistake in blocking his accounts, and repeated its request for evidence relating to the car 
sale. Mr D was still unable to provide the evidence TSB required and on 2 September 2019, 
it closed his accounts. Mr D attended branch four days later and withdrew his funds.
Mr D brought his complaint to our service. He was worried TSB had registered a black mark 
against his name and wanted TSB to reopen his accounts, apologise to him and pay him 
compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. She recognised the inconvenience Mr D had 
experienced, but said she was satisfied the bank had acted appropriately in blocking and 
closing Mr Ds accounts. And that it was entitled to carry out checks on payments into and 
out of Mr Ds accounts.
Mr D remained unhappy, so he asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. 
So, in order to make an award in favour of Mr D, I would need to be satisfied that TSB acted 
unfairly or took action it wasnt entitled to take. And, having looked at the evidence, Im 
satisfied that TSB acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr 
Ds account. And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions that 
govern the relationship between TSB and Mr D.
Ive also reviewed the timeline to see if TSB acted promptly or caused any unnecessary 
delays. The accounts were blocked on 20 August and TSB issued its final response nine 
days later. During that time, it processed the documents Mr D did provide promptly and 
communicated its requirements to Mr D clearly. TSB gave Mr D ample opportunity to provide 
the same and took prompt action when it became clear Mr D wouldnt be able to provide the 
DVLA evidence, by closing his accounts on 2 September 2019.
I know Mr D feels very strongly about his complaint, and I understand the block caused him 
distress ahead of his holiday. But Im satisfied TSB acted in accordance with its legal and 
regulatory obligations when it blocked the account. And that it complied with the account 
terms and conditions. So, because I cant say it did anything wrong, it follows that I cant 
reasonably ask TSB to pay Mr D compensation, apologise or re-open his account.
Mr D was concerned TSB may have registered a black mark against his name. But that isnt 
the case. So while I understand Mr D will be disappointed with my outcome, I hope he can 
take some consolation from knowing there are no marks against his name as a result of this 
situation.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account  which both TSB and Mr D had to comply with  
say that it could close the account by giving Mr D two months notice. And that it doesnt 
have to give reasons for its decision.
Having considered the evidence Ive been provided, and on balance, Im satisfied that TSB 
acted in accordance with its terms and conditions when it closed Mr Ds account. And I can 
see that Mr D withdrew his funds shortly after TSB told him it would close the accounts. So I 
wont ask TSB to do anything further to put matters right for Mr D.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman