DRN-1861742
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs W took out the card and PPI in June 2004 via an internet application.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Canada Square disagrees with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
I wrote a provisional decision in April 2020 in which I explained why I was considering not 
upholding the complaint. I invited the parties to provide any further submissions they may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. No further submissions were received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs W took out the credit card and policy online. Weve seen copies of the web pages that 
Mrs W would have seen during the application process. There was a page for PPI and Mrs 
W would have needed to select either a yes or no option to request or decline the policy. 
These options have equal prominence and neither has been pre-selected. Therefore I 
consider that Mrs W would have understood from the wording and layout of the page that the 
PPI was optional. There was also a link to the terms and conditions. The application process 
couldnt be progressed until an applicant had selected either yes or no. Canada Square 
has provided a copy of Mrs Ws application report which recorded the answers that she gave 
 and this shows that she chose the yes option for PPI.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs Ws recollection of the 
sale has faded. It seems to me that she decided to take out the policy, knowing that she 
didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
Canada Square didnt advise Mrs W to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met 
her needs. But it did need to provide her with enough information to make an informed 
decision about whether or not it was right for her.
The relevant web page did provide a brief description of the policy benefits. And I think that 
Mrs W must have known something about the PPI  that it would cover her credit card 
repayments against accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont think shed have 
decided to buy the policy without knowing anything at all about it.Having originally provided some conflicting information about her level of sick pay, Mrs W 
then clarified that she would have received six months full pay from her employer if she was 
off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for 
longer than she would have received full pay for.
Mrs W had originally provided contradictory information about the level of savings that she 
had. And she has told us that she took out the credit card to consolidate debt. I can see from 
the information provided by Canada Square that Mrs W did two balance transfers when she 
first took out the card. The second balance transfer was for the relatively small amount of 
£217. This seems slightly at odds with what you might expect from someone who had 
surplus available savings. 
Mrs W has recently said that shed been working since 1999 and lived at home until March 
2004, so was able to accrue savings. Shes also said that she bought her first home in 2005, 
using her savings as a deposit. Having the policy would have allowed her to retain her 
savings or use them for their intended purpose.
From the evidence Ive seen, I consider that Mrs W had a need for the PPI and could have 
benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Canada Square didnt provide as much information about the policy as it 
should have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs W wasnt affected by 
any of those things. As I consider that she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, 
I dont think that further information would have caused her to change her mind. So she is no 
worse off as a result of anything Canada Square did wrong, so theres nothing that Canada 
Square needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman