DRN-3770263
The complaint
Mrs H complains that St Jamess Place Wealth Management plc (SJPWM) gave initial 
advice that was unsuitable. Further Mrs H didnt receive ongoing advice, despite paying a 
fee for it. Consequently, her portfolio wasnt adjusted to reflect changes in the selected 
funds risk profiles and investment strategies. 
What happened
Mrs H is represented in bringing her complaint by her husband. But, for ease, Im just going 
to refer, in the main, to Mrs H. Ive set out whats been said on her behalf as if shes made 
those comments herself. Ive read and considered everything but what follows is necessarily 
only a summary of some of the key events and exchanges.  
Mrs H became a client of SJPWM in late 2016. A suitability report was issued on 14 
December 2016. It recorded that Mrs H had accepted a recommendation to set up a 
Retirement Plan (a SIPP or self invested personal pension) with SJPWM for a lump sum 
pension contribution (£38,400 net or £48,000 gross) to use Mrs Hs 2016/2017 annual 
allowance and some carry forward. The covering letter listed various documents which it 
said had been given to Mrs H. The letter said a key element of financial advice was 
conducting regular reviews as objectives and circumstances would likely change over time. 
As part of the ongoing service a bespoke Wealth Management Plan jointly for Mrs H and her 
husband would be set up and reviewed at least annually and more frequently if 
circumstances dictated. 
The report set out Mrs Hs objectives, needs and circumstances and that it had been agreed 
she was a medium risk investor. A bespoke fund selection was recommended, comprising 
six medium risk rating funds: Global Equity Income (17%); Global Managed (17%); 
International Equity (17%); Strategic Income (15%); UK Equity (17%); and Worldwide 
Managed (17%).  The report said an Early Withdrawal Charge (EWC) would apply to money 
withdrawn from the Retirement Plan within five years of being invested, including each 
regular contribution.
  
A further suitability report was issued on 28 February 2017 recommending that Mrs H 
transfer the value (£30,791.16) of an existing personal pension into her Retirement Plan and 
invest across the same range of funds as previously and in the same proportions. 
Following a review in December 2017 two further suitability letters were issued on 19 and 29 
December 2017. The first recommended a pension contribution of £20,000 net be invested 
100% in the Global Smaller Companies Fund. The report noted that Funds risk profile was 
high and, as Mrs Hs attitude to risk (ATR) hadnt changed, the Fund was above her ATR. 
She was aware of that and the reason for the recommendation  to provide further 
diversification across her range of global equity funds with access to an area of the market 
typically less covered by brokers and generally regarded as less efficient.
The second report recommended a contribution of £19,000 net to be invested 50/50 in the 
Global Emerging Markets Fund  which had a risk rating of high  and the Japan Fund  an 
upper medium risk fund. Again both Funds were above Mrs Hs medium ATR. The report 
said the Global Emerging Markets Fund was priced relatively lower than other funds with the 
opportunity for potentially higher growth from emerging economies. The Japan Fund was a 
new investment opportunity which was also relatively lower priced and positioned to take 
advantage of corporate profits growing at a faster rate than the USA. 
I understand the adviser emailed Mrs H in November 2018. She didnt reply or to the 
advisers email sent on 25 January 2019 which said Mrs H would see from her Annual 
Wealth statement that her current valuation was lower than at the end of 2017, even if shed 
made further contributions. The adviser set out what he saw as the reason for that  
essentially market performance. He said he was happy to answer any questions and asked 
Mrs H to let him know if shed like a call. 
Ive not seen there were any further exchanges between Mrs H and the adviser (although 
Mrs H continued to receive Annual Wealth statements) until 10 February 2021 when Mrs H 
emailed the adviser expressing concerns. Amongst other things she said the value of her 
Retirement Plan hadnt gone up much (just over 15%) in four years. Mrs H also said the 
Wealth Account statements didnt provide much useful information to understand 
performance. She asked for further details of each Funds performance and how much shed 
paid in total in fees. She said she wanted to transfer once the EWC no longer applied and 
asked what date that would be. She emailed again on 11 February 2021, querying if some 
funds had changed names and asking if a reduction in units held was due to fees deducted. 
The adviser replied on 16 February 2021. He confirmed the charges: 1.62% pa, broken 
down into the Annual Management Charge (AMC) of 1.05% pa and a 0.57% fund manager 
charge. The cost of managing and maintaining the investments and 0.75% of the AMC was 
allowed for in the funds prices and was taken each a fund was priced. SJPWM took the 
remaining 0.3% of the AMC by cancelling the relevant number of units with one twelfth of the 
charge taken each month. Each month 0.025% of the number of units held were cancelled. 
The adviser confirmed some of the Funds had changed names. Copies of the letters sent 
about the changes were enclosed. A report analysing the Funds performance was also 
supplied, along with an explanation as to how the EWC would apply and the end date. 
Details of the total charges Mrs H had paid had been requested and would be sent on.  
Mrs H replied on 18 February 2021. She said she didnt recall getting any of the letters 
except one in January 2020 letter about the Global Emerging Markets Fund. She said she 
shouldve been told about changes to the former UK High Income and Global Equity Funds 
whereby they no longer had an income mandate  the adviser knew income was important 
to her. She was disappointed with the lack of contact and with the information given on the 
Wealth Account statements. She said there were errors and minimal meaningful data which 
meant the investor had to undertake the analytical work. 
Overall it seemed only the Global Quality Fund had done well. The UK Equity and Japan 
Funds had performed disastrously and the other Funds had significantly underperformed 
their benchmarks. She said shed relied on the adviser to manage her Retirement Plan and 
advise or act as required. Her investments had been neglected and allowed to fester in 
underperforming but expensive funds. Six of the nine funds had one star ratings. 
She asked the adviser to explain why shed had no contact from him and why she hadnt 
been alerted to the fact that she was invested in the lowest performing funds. Nor had she 
agreed to be invested in funds which didnt do what they said. For example, the Strategic 
Income Funds indicative yield of 7% pa had never been met. And she hadnt agreed to the 
style drift away from income funds. She also said that in 2016 she and her husband had indicated some general investment 
views  including a big focus on income, no Neil Woodford Funds, a preference for 
international investments and emerging markets and, in 2017, the Japan and Global Smaller 
Companies Fund. With the benefit of hindsight those had been good calls so it was all the 
more disappointing that the selected funds hadnt captured the positive market performance 
or had moved away from the original income style. Mrs H said that sometimes it was better 
to cut losses but thered been no discussion about that, even though the adviser was aware 
that most of the funds Mrs H was invested in had gone wrong some time earlier or were no 
longer invested in the manner she wished. 
She was also concerned that each month units were sold to meet the AMC. That meant that 
fee wasnt captured within the performance of the units and created some 108 transactions 
each year of which shed been unaware. That was a considerable administrative burden and 
cost with error risk and meant that units will be sold at inopportune times. She said clients 
should be informed when their shares were sold. 
She said SJPWMs Investment Committee 2020 report had neglected to mention that almost 
three quarter of the funds were ranked in the bottom 50% of all funds and almost half in the 
bottom 25%. Most of her funds underperformed during the market falls in 2018 and March 
2020 and still performed poorly during the strong recovery. Even if SJPWM disputed some of 
the independent fund research the number of underperforming funds should be of concern. 
Mrs H said shed wanted to move away from SJPWM once she was no longer subject to the 
EWC. But she now wanted to move away immediately and without penalty and be refunded 
the advisory and other fees as she hadnt received any advice or service. She set out a 
number of issues which she felt affected other clients, including the effect of the EWC; 
inadequate reporting, communication and advice; advisers having insufficient market 
knowledge and being restricted to mainly underperforming funds; and a failure to address 
widespread fund manager underperformance. 
 
The adviser replied saying SJPWMs Head Office had been asked to investigate the issues 
raised. There were some further exchanges,, including about whether there was a signed 
client agreement letter, the total fees paid, fund performance and the findings of a Yodelar 
report. Mrs H also initiated the transfer of her SIPP fund. An issue then arose about the 
amount transferred which was less than the amount the adviser had mentioned.
  
SJPWM responded to Mrs Hs concerns on 4 May 2021. A report from the Investment 
Management Team was enclosed. It said the main reason why Mrs Hs portfolio had 
underperformed the ARC (Asset Risk Consultants) Equity Risk Index was the style bias to 
Value funds. How Mrs Hs portfolio was made up and her exposure to funds which were or 
had become Value style funds was set out. Also enclosed was a summary about the Yodelar 
report, rejecting its findings. 
In the main SJPWM didnt agree that Mrs Hs concerns were justified. But the adviser had 
acknowledged, after speaking to Mrs H in November 2018 and January 2019, that hed 
failed to make contact after that, although hed have been available to discuss any issues. 
SJPWM offered to refund the servicing charges since November 2018 (£931.71). 
Further, when Mrs H had decided to transfer away, the adviser had given a plan value as at 
23 March 2021 of £155,906.44 and agreed to switch the funds into a Money Market Fund to 
avoid unit price fluctuations before the transfer concluded. Fund switches take place on the 
day following instructions to switch and there was a drop in fund value over that one day. In 
addition, EWCs were applied as Mrs H was transferring within six years of contributions 
being made. The final transfer value was £152,966.68 which was less than the value given 
on 23 March 2021. As a gesture of goodwill SJPWP had reimbursed the difference (£2,939.76). SJPWM also offered a payment of £500 for distress and inconvenience. The 
total offer was £4,371.47 of which £2,939.76 had been paid, which left £1,431.71 to pay.  
Mrs H wrote again on 7 May 2021. She didnt feel all of her concerns had been addressed 
and she set out some thirteen points she wanted SJPWM to consider further. As there was 
no client agreement letter shed been unaware of her client status. The service shed 
received was execution only but with high advisory fees and no performance data or industry 
standard valuations. She said she hadnt been properly informed about SJPWMs services, 
product terms, fees or ongoing client servicing. If she had been informed verbally or via a 
client agreement letter, she wouldnt have invested with SJPWM. Shed been put in 
investments that were or had become unsuitable for her. She hadnt been given sufficient 
information to review or manage her investments herself and the adviser had failed to do so. 
From the figures provided, the fees charged by SJPWM not paid out to external managers 
totalled £5,150. Mrs H said that, plus the £500 offered (so in total £5,650) would be 
appropriate compensation and to be paid in addition to the sum already paid (I think that was 
the £2,939.76 difference in fund values).  
SJPWM said it would review the complaint. SJPWM wrote again on 21 May 2021, increasing 
its earlier offer (£1,431.71) to £1,931.71, to include a further £500 (so in total £1,000) for 
distress and inconvenience.
 
Mrs H referred her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into what had happened. 
He thought SJPWMs offer was broadly fair and reasonable. He said the complaint could be 
broken down into suitability of advice; ongoing advice; issues about the Annual Wealth 
statements; and fund performance. About each he said, in summary: 
The advice given in 2016 and 2017 was broadly suitable. Mrs H had confirmed a 
medium ATR and she had capacity to take that degree of risk. She had input as to 
the bespoke portfolio which was set up and she had a high level of investment 
understanding. Although the suitability reports referred to SJPWMs active 
governance and monitoring of investments, Mrs H didnt have a discretionary fund 
management (DFM) agreement. All the charges had been clearly disclosed. 
SJPWM hadnt upheld the complaint but part of the ongoing service fees had been 
refunded, which implied thered been a failure to provide the service the fees were 
meant to cover. When Mrs H was advised to transfer to SJPWM (whose charges 
were higher) it was recorded that she was concerned with a lack of service and 
advice from her existing provider. The covering letters for the suitability letters 
promised an in person review at least once a year but thered been no annual 
reviews. The suitability reports stressed the importance of ongoing reviews. Mrs H 
was led to expect a high level of ongoing service. The adviser had admitted the 
service hed delivered fell short. But, on the basis the advice given in December 2017 
shouldve been reviewed within twelve months, the offer to refund the ongoing advice 
fees from November 2018 was reasonable. 
The information provided in the Annual Wealth statements complied with the relevant 
regulations, even if other providers supplied more information which enabled 
investors to track performance of individual funds more easily. Mrs H couldve 
registered for online access. And there was considerable information about funds 
and their performance available generally. 
Mrs H wasnt a discretionary client and so SJPWM didnt have authority to move 
money from one fund to another without Mrs Hs express permission. But SJPWM 
shouldve stepped in if they had concerns about any of the funds Mrs H was invested 
in. Fund performance is dependent on many factors outside of SJPWMs control. 
Had the adviser reviewed Mrs Hs portfolio hed have likely concluded it remained appropriate for her as a medium risk investor seeking medium to long term growth. 
Mrs H agreed the investigator had succinctly analysed the issues but felt there were errors 
or omissions. And reaching individual conclusions about each aspect had precluded 
consideration of the linkage between each issue. Mrs H raised a number of issues which she 
thought hadnt been considered. In summary:  
 
The product had been mis sold.
Shed made a specific request, supported by the adviser, to be highly invested in 
income funds. Three (the UK High Income, Global Equity Income and Strategic 
Income Funds) were selected by the adviser and represented 49% of the initial 
portfolio. During the period of investment the UK High Income and Global Equity 
Funds dropped their income mandates. The Strategic Income Fund never achieved 
its stated 7% income aim. And there were issues with the Japan Fund. Those factors 
meant she shouldve been advised to move her investments. 
A critical aspect of the original advice was for SJPWM to help Mrs H consolidate her 
pensions into one SIPP. But the adviser said it would be too complicated and/or time 
consuming to transfer her largest pension, an occupational pension scheme, in 
respect of which Mrs H had received independent advice in January 2017. 
There was no client agreement letter or similar document. Mrs H wasnt told at the 
time if SJPWMs service was advisory or discretionary. Thered been confusion 
arising from SJPs failure to state what type of service was being provided. 
The Key Facts document and the Retirement Plan Terms and Conditions were only 
supplied after the money had been committed. Mrs H wouldnt have invested if 
thered been full disclosure prior to the sale. 
There were serious errors in the Annual Wealth statements which rendered them 
valueless and dangerous. 
Mrs H also made a made a number of points with specific reference to what the 
investigator had said in his view. 
The investigator considered Mrs Hs comments but he wasnt persuaded to change his view. 
Amongst other things he said Mrs Hs occupational pension schemes had been mentioned in 
the suitability report. If transferring was central to her objectives and she was dissatisfied 
with the reason the adviser gave for not proceeding with a transfer, she couldve made that 
clear at the time.  
And, about the lack of a client agreement letter, the investigator said the suitability letter 
referred to a Key Facts about our Services and Costs document. The example document 
provided set out the service provided was restricted advice and that SJPWM would advise 
and make a recommendation after it had assessed the clients needs and products from a 
limited number of companies would be offered. There was no reference to SJPWM providing 
a discretionary service  if that had been the case it wouldve featured heavily in the 
suitability report. 
Although SJPWM had to provide a client with certain information about its services, there 
was no requirement to obtain a signed client agreement. The key facts document gave the 
required information. There was no evidence to demonstrate conclusively when documents 
were provided. But the covering letter with the suitability report says theyd been provided. If 
they hadnt been included Mrs H might have queried that at the time. 
About any errors on the Annual Wealth statements, the issue was whether these had led to 
or contributed to the losses Mrs H alleged. But the central question was whether those 
losses stemmed from a failure to provide suitable advice. There were some further exchanges, including about when the Retirement Plan terms and 
conditions had been provided. Mrs H said SJPWMs letter of 29 December 2016 confirms 
the date of receipt of the funds  on 21 December 2016  and says the plan schedule and 
terms and conditions are enclosed. The schedule couldnt have been produced before then 
and the terms and conditions hadnt been previously provided. The upshot was that she 
didnt receive any information about the product itself in advance. Mrs H said only providing 
the terms and conditions after the investment had been made was unfair and in breach of 
consumer rights legislation and meant SJPWM isnt entitled to enforce its terms, including 
those relating to the collection of fees. Mrs H later added, if there was any dispute or doubt 
as to the terms and conditions only having been received after the investment had been 
made, she should be informed, so she could seek further evidence.
Mrs H maintained that consolidating her pensions, including her occupational pension 
benefits, was important. And that the lack of information on the Annual Wealth statements 
meant the client is left in the dark and doesnt know the right questions to ask. The 
investigator had referred to the absence of anything in the suitability report to indicate that 
the service was discretionary and not advisory. But the client doesnt know all those terms or 
the different types of service so the adviser needs to spell it out so everyone is clear what to 
expect - again thats standard industry practice. 
The investigator responded. Although the terms and conditions shouldve been provided 
before Mrs H committed to the transactions, when she did get them she hadnt queried 
anything so it could be assumed shed have gone ahead if theyd been provided earlier. The 
investigator maintained that the recommended portfolio was suitable. Although Mrs H was 
very disappointed with the investment returns, SJPWMs management of the portfolio hadnt 
been negligent. 
The investigator confirmed to Mrs H and SJPWM that the case would be referred to an 
ombudsman to decide. Im sorry that its taken longer than wed have liked to reach this final 
stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has made detailed comments and observations in support of her complaint, all of 
which Ive read and carefully considered. Im not going to comment on everything, only what 
I regard as central to the complaint. I can see Mrs H feels very strongly about whats 
happened and that SJPWMs advice and service was deficient. I agree there were 
shortcomings on SJPWMs part. And I think SJPWMs offer indicates that it accepts there 
were failings, at least in respect of the provision of ongoing advice and annual reviews. But, 
in the main, I agree with the investigators views and the reasons he gave as to why 
SJPWMs offer is fair and reasonable. 
I think the central issue is suitability  whether SJPWMs initial advice was suitable for Mrs H 
and if the recommended portfolio remained suitable for her. In considering that Im not 
looking at things with the benefit of hindsight. There are many different investment products, 
funds and strategies. Some will do better than others. Provided SJPWMs advice was 
suitable, SJPWM wont be responsible for any investment losses Mrs H has sustained and 
even if another solution might have worked out better. That said, a central aspect of the 
complaint is that there was a failure to advise and theres an admitted failure to undertake 
annual reviews. So Ive considered what wouldve likely happened had those reviews taken 
place and, in particular, if changes to Mrs Hs portfolio shouldve been recommended. Before considering suitability, Ive looked at some of the other issues Mrs H has raised. I 
think that gives some context to the complaint and her dissatisfaction generally with 
SJPWMs service or lack thereof.  
Mrs H says a crucial aspect of the original advice was for SJPWM to help her consolidate 
her pensions, which included deferred benefits in two final salary occupational pension 
schemes, into one SIPP. As the adviser was aware, shed got a CETV (cash equivalent 
transfer value) from one of those schemes and shed taken independent advice. So she was 
ready to go ahead with that transfer. I think the advisers position on transferring was set out 
in the suitability report dated 28 February 2017. It recorded that Mrs H had deferred benefits 
in two final salary pension schemes which the adviser wasnt recommending be transferred. 
The report noted that, for one of those schemes, Mrs H had passed the normal retirement 
date and the trustees wouldnt offer a transfer value. So transferring the value of Mrs Hs 
benefits in that scheme wasnt an option anyway. 
A CETV had been offered on the other scheme but the report said it was relatively small and 
transferring wouldnt be appropriate due to the cost of the transfer analysis and advice fees 
as well as foregoing the small but rising guaranteed income each year. I dont think that 
translates as saying a transfer would be too complicated and/or time consuming. The 
advisers view was that transferring wasnt justified on cost grounds and as it would mean 
giving up a guaranteed and inflation proofed income. The earlier suitability report dated 14 
December 2016 said Mrs H planned initially to access her final salary pension schemes. So 
it would appear that retaining those was part of Mrs Hs overall retirement strategy. 
And, as the investigator said, If Mrs H didnt accept what the adviser had said about not 
transferring, she couldve told him that she wanted to go ahead (at least with the transfer 
where a CETV was on offer) and asked him to facilitate a transfer. Mrs H didnt press the 
point. I dont think the adviser acted unreasonably by assuming Mrs H agreed a transfer 
wasnt in her best interests.   
Ive considered Mrs Hs comments about the documentation. Its clear she thinks it wouldve 
been preferable had a client agreement letter been supplied, setting out the different types of 
client and/or service which could be provided and which one applied to her. But, as the 
investigator noted, theres no regulatory requirement to provide a client agreement letter. A 
firm must provide the customer with certain information which was contained in the Key 
Facts about our Services and Costs document. 
Theres a dispute about whether Mrs H got it. The covering letter to the suitability reports 
lists the documents which have been provided to Mrs H, including that one. So, on the face 
of things, a copy was provided to Mrs H. The document describes the products offered, the 
cost of advice and the terms of business. Those are important issues which I think Mrs H 
wouldve wanted to be clear about in deciding whether to set up a Retirement Plan with 
SJPWM. If she didnt get the document and didnt point that out, the adviser couldnt have 
known Mrs H hadnt seen it. I think it was reasonable for him to proceed on the basis Mrs H 
did get a copy and was happy to continue as set out. 
The document said, amongst other things, that Mrs H had been classed as a retail client. 
And that the service provided was Restricted advice. Advice and a recommendation would 
be provided after Mrs Hs needs had been assessed and only products from a limited 
number of companies were offered. I note what Mrs H has said about not understanding 
what all that meant and in particular that changes to her investments could only be made on 
her specific instructions. But, if shed have queried things, the adviser couldve explained. 
Id also agree with the investigator that any suggestion there was a DFM arrangement in 
place wouldve been made very clear. And, given that Mrs H has expressed unhappiness that SJPWM sold units to pay the AMC, Im not sure shed have been comfortable with a 
discretionary service  that is where she wasnt consulted about any fund switches. 
All in all I agree with the investigator that Mrs H reasonably ought to have been aware that 
the adviser wouldnt act other than on her instructions. But Im not sure anything much turns 
on this point anyway and when the issue is whether, if shed had ongoing advice, fund 
switches or other changes shouldve been recommended. Ive considered that below. 
Mrs H has said the Retirement Plan terms and conditions werent provided until 29 
December 2016, by which time her contribution had already been received by SJPWM. 
Again, the covering letter for the suitability report indicates a copy of the terms and 
conditions had been provided. I dont have any real reason to think that wasnt the case. And 
if not Mrs H couldve asked for a copy. I agree the schedule could only have been produced 
after receipt of the contribution. But a copy of the terms and conditions couldve been 
provided earlier. I think its usual practice for a further copy with the schedule to be issued 
once the investment has been made. 
Mrs H suggests, if theres any dispute that she didnt receive the terms and conditions until 
after SJPWM had received the contribution, further evidence should be sought. I agree the 
terms and conditions are a key document and include important information about how the 
product operates. And, along with other documents, form the basis of Mrs Hs contract with 
SJPWM. Sometimes a contract may be void or its terms (or certain of them) unenforceable if 
theres a failure to disclose material information. But that wont always be the case and a 
contract may be ratified after the event, sometimes by the parties conduct. 
Even if Mrs H only got a copy of the terms and conditions on 29 December 2016, she still 
had sight of them at an early stage. She couldve queried anything she didnt understand or 
wasnt prepared to accept. I think it wouldve been possible to unwind things at that stage  
the Retirement Plan couldve been cancelled and Mrs Hs contribution returned. Mrs H didnt 
raise any concerns and was apparently happy to proceed. I dont see any reason to say she 
isnt bound by the terms and conditions. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say 
SJPWM isnt entitled to rely on the terms and conditions. Against that background I dont see 
theres any need to make further enquiries to try to ascertain whether the terms and 
conditions had been provided earlier and before the contribution reached SJPWM. 
A number of issues arise in connection with the terms and conditions. For example, Mrs H 
says the EWC and its operation wasnt correctly described. The suitability letter dated 14 
December 2016 mentioned the EWC. And the EWC is dealt with in the terms and conditions. 
I appreciate Mrs Hs point is that she didnt get the terms and conditions until hed already 
invested but Ive dealt with that  she did get them early on and I think shes bound by them.  
Condition 10.3 refers to an EWC being deducted on any withdrawal (including the transfer of 
the retirement fund to another scheme) within six years of the investment date of any 
Investment. The definitions section (Appendix 1) defines Investment as meaning any 
single contributions, regular contributions or transfer of benefits into the Retirement Plan. 
And theres a table setting out the EWC percentage that will apply, depending on the years 
since the investment date. I dont agree there was any failure to inform Mrs H about the 
EWC or that she shouldnt be bound by it.  
Mrs H is also concerned about fees being taken monthly by selling units. Section 10 of the 
terms and conditions deals with charges. It refers to the costs of managing and maintaining 
the investments and says that 0.75% of the AMC is allowed for in the prices of the funds and 
taken each time a fund is priced. The remaining 0.5% is taken by cancelling the required 
number of units allocated to the investors plan. Mrs H has said her expectation was that any 
fees would be taken from the cash account (and there wasnt one) but I think SJPWM did enough to make Mrs H aware of what fees shed be charged and how theyd be paid. The 
fees were also disclosed with the suitability reports and the illustrations. 
Ive seen some examples of the annual Wealth Account statements. They did set out the 
overall fund value and what that had been the previous year so to that extent performance 
could be tracked. But I agree with Mrs H that its not easy to see how individual funds have 
performed. I think the position was also confused by name changes to some funds. It seems 
SJPWM informed Mrs H of those and other changes to some funds although she doesnt 
recall receiving all the letters/emails. I accept the letters were sent even if for some reason 
Mrs H didnt receive them. And using the wrong fund names at times on the Wealth Account 
statements wont have helped either. 
But, in my view, Mrs Hs concerns about the adequacy of the information provided largely fall 
away given that it was up to the adviser to review Mrs Hs portfolio with her at least once a 
year. At the outset the need for regular reviews as an important part of the service offered 
was stressed. The adviser has said he assumed there were no burning issues on Mrs Hs 
part, otherwise shed have got in contact. And hes pointed to how things had been left. But I 
dont think thats good enough. As the adviser accepts, he shouldve been more proactive 
and, when Mrs H didnt respond to his emails, followed things up.  
It mightve occurred to Mrs H that her pension hadnt been reviewed for some time and she 
couldve asked for a review. And information about some of the funds may have been 
available had she undertaken her own research. Online access might have helped too. 
Further, its clear her husband has considerable knowledge and expertise. On that point, 
although Mrs H was unhappy with the reference to her husband having been a stockbroker, 
she did say, in her letter of 18 February 2021, that she was married to a former stockbroker. 
But, that aside and regardless of what other resources or information Mrs H could access, 
she was SJPWMs client and she was paying the adviser to look after her pension fund. I 
dont think she got the service shed been promised. 
Ill turn now to what I see as the central issue - the suitability of Mrs Hs SIPP portfolio. Ive 
looked first at the initial advice in November 2016. Mrs Hs Retirement Plan fund was then 
just the £48,000 gross contribution shed be making. The recommendation was to spread 
that over six medium risk rated Funds. Mrs Hs ATR had been assessed as medium. So, by 
definition, the portfolio would appear suitable for her. That said, in my view, the high equity 
element meant it was perhaps towards the upper end of what Id regard as suitable for an 
investor with medium or balanced ATR. But there was some fixed interest and cash and 
diversification across a range of funds and different sectors. I think her circumstances and 
objectives were such that she could afford to take that level of risk with that part of her 
pension provision.
Mrs H also had considerable input into the portfolio. Ive seen the adviser emailed a draft 
portfolio on 8 December 2016. Mrs H replied the same day, saying she was unenthusiastic 
about it. The adviser emailed again on 9 December 2016 suggesting a meeting and in the 
meantime adding further details about the portfolio hed proposed, including that the UK 
Equity Fund was managed by Neil Woodford. I mention that because Mrs H has said she 
didnt want any funds managed by him. But it seems she was made aware and agreed to the 
UK Equity Fund. Im also aware of the issues that arose with another Woodford fund  the 
Equity Income Fund. But my understanding is that Fund wasnt offered by SJPWM and 
wasnt included in Mrs Hs portfolio. SJPWM did remove Mr Woodford as the manager of its 
UK High Income, UK Equity and UK Income Distribution Funds. Mrs H has referred to what 
she terms the former UK High Income Fund but I dont think she was ever invested in that 
Fund although I think it merged with the UK Equity Fund which Mrs H was invested in. Mrs H has stressed she wanted a focus on income. Ive looked at that further below. But I 
agree with the investigator that the portfolio that was initially recommended was suitable for 
Mrs H. It was consistent with her stated investment preferences, her ATR, her circumstances 
generally and when the timeframe for investment was anticipated to be at least five years.
   
SJPWM gave further advice 28 February 2017 to transfer Mrs Hs existing personal pension 
into her Retirement Plan and invest across the same range of funds and in the same 
proportions. Mrs H did want, where possible, to consolidate her pension funds. I think the 
recommendation to transfer was suitable. And, in the absence of any change in Mrs Hs 
circumstances, objectives or ATR, the fund selection remined appropriate. 
When the two further contributions to the Retirement Plan were made in December 2017 the 
recommended funds were different. Three new funds were introduced to Mrs Hs SIPP 
portfolio. Two of those funds  the Global Smaller Companies Fund and the Global 
Emerging Markets Fund  had a risk rating of high. And the third  the Japan Fund  was 
upper medium risk. Given what Ive said about the original portfolio perhaps being on the 
high side of medium, that might suggest the overall portfolio represented too much risk for 
Mrs H, whose ATR hadnt changed from medium. But I think there was justification for the 
funds recommended. The sectors were consistent with Mrs Hs preferences and the new 
funds provided further diversification. It seems theyd been discussed with Mrs H and, 
importantly, shed been made aware they were higher risk than her medium ATR and shed 
confirmed she was happy to proceed. 
Mrs H has said, about the Japan Fund, that it was new and so couldnt be regarded as low 
priced. But the fact that it was new was recorded in the suitability report. The reference to it 
being relatively low priced was presumably by comparison with other similar funds in that 
sector. The report said the same about the Global Emerging Markets Fund. Although Mrs H 
has since said she doesnt think that Fund was low priced, it seems the view at the time was 
that it was attractively priced and values should increase, even if that didnt in the end 
happen. Overall I dont think the further recommendations were unsuitable for Mrs H. 
No further recommendations were made. Mrs H didnt seek advice about any further 
contributions to her Retirement Plan and she didnt get the annual reviews the adviser had 
agreed to provide and for which Mrs H was being charged. Discussions about the portfolios 
overall ongoing suitability and individual Fund performance shouldve featured in the annual 
reviews. Ive considered, if annual reviews had taken place, if changes shouldve been 
recommended. 
Mrs Hs time horizon for the portfolio recommended was medium term (at least five years). I 
dont necessarily agree its highly unusual for no changes to a portfolio to be recommended 
over a period of some years. Particularly if, as here, there was no change in the investors 
circumstances or objectives. In those circumstances Id expect the portfolio to remain 
broadly suitable. 
Some funds will perform in line with expectations or better, while others may not do as well 
as hoped. That, of itself, wont mean that the particular fund wasnt suitable when it was 
recommended or later became unsuitable. Fluctuations in fund performance and/or values 
can be expected. Investment conditions over the last few years have been somewhat 
turbulent and, as pointed out by Mrs H, there have been a number of global and domestic 
events which have led to economic uncertainty and stock market falls.
Falls in fund values wont necessarily prompt changes. Selling when values are low may 
crystallise a loss which might be made up if the investment is retained. And, although with 
hindsight it can be easy to point to a particular time when an investment shouldve been 
sold, making that decision in real time is unlikely to be obvious  whether a fund is going to recover and, if so, when and to what extent or if falls in value will continue is likely to be 
impossible to predict. So, while I note Mrs Hs comments about it sometimes being best to 
cut losses, I cant say, if that sort of conversation had taken place, that the outcome wouldve 
been to sell certain funds. 
Mrs H has stressed that her complaint isnt about fund performance and doesnt stem from 
disappointment with investment returns.  Her complaint is that the adviser  the only person 
with all the facts  failed to notice there were specific failures or changes to the 
recommended funds such that they no longer met the agreed criteria. He then failed to 
recommend changes which led to Mrs H suffering financial losses. Ive considered, taking 
into account the issues Mrs H has pointed to, if the portfolio became unsuitable for her.   
Mrs Hs key point is that she wasnt told when the UK High Income and Global Equity Funds 
dropped their income mandates. Mrs H says income was very important to her and shed 
specifically requested to be highly invested in income funds and three income producing 
funds (UK High Income, Global Equity Income and Strategic Income) were included (making 
up 49% of the portfolio). But, as Ive explained above, Mrs H wasnt actually invested in the 
UK High Income Fund  she was invested in the UK Equity Fund. So I dont see what Mrs H 
has said about not having been told the UK High Income Fund had dropped its income 
mandate is directly relevant. But even if Im wrong about that, as Ive gone on to explain, I 
dont think the income mandates were as significant as has been suggested.   
The recommendation report noted, about the UK Equity, Global Equity Income and Strategic 
Income Funds, that the income from dividends and interest would be reinvested, to help 
provide positive returns when growth was low and to smooth volatility. And that rolling up 
income generated within the investment would maximise growth potential. The compounding 
effect together with the capital growth achieved would help target overall capital growth. So 
the overall investment objective was capital growth ahead of inflation. It seems the income 
funds were recommended to help meet the portfolios overall aim of capital growth. 
And the email exchange which preceded the suitability report doesnt indicate that income 
funds were that much of a priority. In Mrs Hs email of 8 December 2016 the reinvested 
income is referred to as de minimis and a red herring. So I dont think any of the Funds 
would automatically become unsuitable if the income mandate was lost, provided the 
portfolio retained its overall objective of capital growth. 
Mrs H has also expressed concerns about the Strategic Income Fund and in particular that it 
never achieved a 7% pa yield. But, even if a strong anticipated performance was in part at 
least the reason for the Funds inclusion in the portfolio, there was no guarantee as to future 
returns. Mrs H has also referred to problems with the Fund arising less than six months after 
shed invested but Id be inclined to say that would probably be too soon for things to be 
reviewed and a longer term view wouldve prevailed. I note what Mrs H says about the Fund 
adopting a higher risk strategy than its peers but its medium risk rating seems to have been 
maintained throughout. So I cant say the Fund became unsuitable for Mrs H because it no 
longer matched her ATR. Despite what Mrs H says, I think its more that performance has 
been disappointing. 
Id say similar about the Japan Fund. I can understand, as it was a new Fund, that Mrs H 
might say it shouldve been monitored carefully. But again I dont think it would be wrong to 
adopt a longer term approach. I dont think its a foregone conclusion, had performance been 
analysed during an annual review, that Mrs H wouldve been advised to switch out of that 
Fund. 
More generally Mrs H has cited the Yodelar review. I agree that its critical in a number of 
respects. But SJPWM disputes the findings and has pointed to inaccuracies in the report including as to how charges are accounted for and why the star rating system is biased to 
generate low scores. So Im not sure that a great deal of weight can be placed on the report 
as evidence of unsuitability.    
Mrs H is also concerned about the references to Value funds as an explanation for 
disappointing performance  the Value style funds hadnt performed well and their poor 
performance had effectively cancelled out the other funds which had performed positively. I 
can to some extent understand Mrs Hs concern as to the introduction of a new term which 
hadnt previously been discussed as an investment strategy and which was now being cited 
as the reason for her portfolios underperformance. But I dont think the fact that some of the 
Funds can be labelled in that way means her portfolio was or became unsuitable. Or that it 
evidences an unacceptable drift in style and/or risk. 
Ive considered suitability above and Im satisfied the portfolio was suitable. From what Ive 
seen I dont think it became unsuitable. Despite the factors Mrs H has pointed to, the 
portfolio continued to match her agreed ATR and there were no changes in her 
circumstances during the period from November 2018 (when a review shouldve taken 
place) and March 2021 when she moved away from SJPWM. On that basis its difficult to 
say that changes wouldve likely been recommended. 
Mrs H has said she wouldnt have invested with SJPWM at all. Shes pointed to a number of 
what she terms red flags  such as the EWC, selling units to meet the AMC and the non 
consolidation of her final salary pension schemes. Ive already considered those factors. I 
dont agree that Mrs H entered into the Retirement Plan without having been made aware of 
how it would operate and the terms and conditions that would apply. My view is that the 
advice she received was suitable for her and I dont think the Retirement Plan was mis sold. 
So Im not going to say that Mrs H wouldnt have invested at all with SJPWM. 
Mrs H has said that some of the issues shes raised affect other SJPWM clients. We arent 
the regulator and our powers are limited to dealing with individual complaints. Its a matter 
for Mrs H if she wishes to raise any more wider ranging concerns direct with the regulator. 
All in all I think SJPWMs offer is fair and reasonable taking into account that Im unable to 
say Mrs H has suffered any financial loss resulting from SJPWMs advice or failure to advise 
and when the original SIPP portfolio was and remained suitable for her. I think the offer to 
refund fees is fair and reasonable. I also take into account that SJPWM met the higher 
transfer value quoted. And I think the amount offered for distress and inconvenience is at 
least as much as I wouldve awarded. So I dont think SJPWM needs to do anymore. I 
realise that Mrs H is unlikely to agree but I hope Ive explained why Im unable to uphold her 
complaint to the extent she seeks.
My final decision
St Jamess Place Wealth Management plc has already made an offer to pay £1,931.71 to 
settle the complaint (which is in addition to the £2,939.76 it paid earlier). I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that St Jamess Place Wealth Management plc should pay Mrs H 
£1,931.71. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Lesley SteadOmbudsman