DRN-3414283
The complaint
Mr P1 and Mr P2 complain that Aldermore Bank Plc has returned a series of lump sum 
payments which were intended to clear a mortgage. They want Aldermore to accept the 
money now, waive interest charged since it was first paid, and pay compensation.
What happened
Mr P1 said that in April 2021 he started to make monthly overpayments to clear the 
mortgage. £5,000 extra per month was paid to Aldermore, from the same account thats 
always been used to pay the mortgage. But he said Aldermore had refused to credit this to 
the mortgage account. It was asking him to identify the source of the funds. 
Mr P1 said this meant hed paid more interest. He felt that Aldermore was just making things 
difficult so it could keep charging him for the debt. He wanted Aldermore to accept the 
money without making him jump through hoops, to recalculate the mortgage as if the 
payments had been accepted when they were originally paid, and to pay compensation for 
all the trouble hed been put to. 
Aldermore said Mr P1 and Mr P2 took out this mortgage in September 2013. In April 2021 
Mr P2 rang to ask about redeeming the mortgage. Aldermore said it would need proof of 
where the funds had come from and it had understood from this call that Mr P2 would 
provide this.
Aldermore said Mr P1 and Mr P2 then paid £5,000, and it emailed them to say that before 
the money could be allocated to the account, they would have to show the source of the 
funds. The overpayments kept being sent each month, and Aldermore kept trying to get in 
touch. It spoke to Mr P1 in August, and he said he wouldnt be supplying this information. He 
didnt feel he had to. 
Aldermore didnt change its mind about this. It wrote to Mr P1 and Mr P2 to confirm its 
position, and in November 2021 it sent £35,000 in overpayments back to the sending bank 
account. It didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He understood that Mr P1 
believed that money laundering regulations didnt apply, because the transactions were 
under £10,000. But our investigator said that the total paid added up to much more than that. 
So he didnt think Aldermore had been unreasonable in asking for the source of funds.
Mr P1 didnt agree. He said the same bank account had been used throughout. And the 
money hadnt just landed there, Aldermore had been notified in advance of the 
overpayments. But our investigator didnt change his mind. Because no agreement was 
reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator. 
Mr P1 and Mr P2 have started to make sizeable monthly overpayments to reduce their 
mortgage. Its also clear that they had considered paying just one lump sum, as this was 
discussed when they first contacted Aldermore. So I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Aldermore to say from the outset that it would like to know where this money was coming 
from. 
Mr P1 says that there are reporting thresholds, and each transaction is below the UK 
thresholds. But our investigator has explained that the thresholds apply to a series of 
transactions, which is what we have here. The total amount paid to this mortgage (and then 
returned by Aldermore) is well over the UK threshold. So I think that Aldermore is, as its 
said, only seeking to comply with these rules. 
Because of these constraints, I dont think it would be appropriate for me to instruct 
Aldermore to accept large sums of money towards a mortgage, without being satisfied as to 
where that has come from. And I dont think that Aldermore should simply have accepted 
what Mr P1 has said, that this has come from the same account that has always been used 
to pay the contractual monthly amount of around £255. Aldermore has asked to see the 
statements for that account, and I dont think thats an unreasonable or unfair request for it to 
make. 
I have considered the evidence carefully, but I havent been able to see that Aldermore has 
done anything wrong here. So, although I know Mr P1 and Mr P2 will be disappointed, I dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P1 and Mr P2 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman