DRN-3219830
The complaint
Miss R says Morses Club Plc irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about two home credit loans given to Miss R by Morses Club. Miss R 
took out the first loan for £400 in October 2017. It was due to be repaid in weekly 
repayments of £20 over 33 weeks. The second loan was taken in March 2018 for £600 
and this was again due to be repaid in weekly instalments of £21 over 52 weeks.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She felt that Morses Club 
had completed proportionate checks and based on what Miss R had declared, it was 
reasonable for it to lend to her.
Miss R was unhappy with the adjudicators assessment and asked for an ombudsman to 
consider the complaint. Her complaint has therefore been passed to me to consider.
I issued a provisional decision setting out why I felt this complaint should be upheld. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Morses Club needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
R could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses Club should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses Club was required to 
establish whether Miss R could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably 
if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Rs complaint. Having done so I plan to uphold 
this complaint.
Before agreeing Miss Rs first loan I can see Morses Club took details of her income 
which its said it verified with a payslip. Morses Club also took details of her self-declared 
expenditure and completed a credit search. Miss R declared an income of £400 per week 
and expenditure of £14 per week on groceries and no other expenditure. Ive noted the 
application asked Miss R to declare her expenditure from a number of different sources 
including various different types of existing credit (mortgage, credit cards, other home 
credit, loans and other credit) and general expenditure such as rent, council tax, utilities 
etc. I think £14 per week is a quite a low amount for Morses Club to accept as an 
accurate reflection of Miss Rs total weekly expenditure. So, I think Morses Club shouldve 
questioned this further at the time.
In any event, from looking at the credit search results Morses Club has provided, its clear 
it had further information to doubt the expenditure declarations Miss R provided. These 
results show that just prior to agreeing loan one, Miss R had over £30,000 outstanding in 
existing credit. This included loans and instalment credit, revolving credit and budget 
accounts and home credit. I therefore dont think it was reasonable for Morses Club to 
rely on Miss Rs self-declared expenditure, particularly as the results of its own checks 
showed Miss R had a substantial amount of existing debt. So, I dont think Morses Club 
completed proportionate checks before agreeing to lend loan one.
Based on the information Morses Club had available before agreeing loan one, I think its 
arguable that this demonstrated Miss R didnt have capacity to take on additional 
borrowing. However, Miss R has also provided further information about her financial 
circumstances at the time. Miss R has provided a copy of her bank statements dated just 
after she took out loan one. These show that Miss R was spending almost as much as 
she was earning on existing credit commitments, including other high cost credit 
providers, before her other regular expenditure is even considered. And I think its unlikely 
that her circumstances wouldve changed significantly in the month prior to her taking out 
this loan. So, I think this reinforces what Morses Club shouldve seen from her credit 
search results  that Miss R was already so heavily indebted that she didnt have capacity 
to take on additional borrowing and that she couldnt have sustainably afforded to repay 
this loan. And so I dont think Morses Club shouldve agreed loan one.Turning to loan two, I also dont think this shouldve been agreed for largely the same 
reasons. Miss R declared an income of £387 per week and expenditure of £120 per week. 
This consisted of £100 per week on groceries and £20 per week for her previous loan with 
Morses Club. Again this shows a lack of other expenditure and I think Morses Club 
shouldve questioned this. Its not entirely clear if Morses Club completed another credit 
search at this point, theres some information to suggest it may have but I havent been 
provided with a copy of these results.
In any event, the earlier credit search was around five months earlier and based on this 
information alone, its again arguable that Morses Club was on notice that Miss R didnt 
have capacity to take on additional borrowing. So, I dont think it completed proportionate 
checks before agreeing Miss Rs second loan.
Based on the information I have about Miss Rs wider financial circumstances at the time 
loan two was given, I can see that she was still heavily indebted and was still using large 
amounts of her income to repay existing credit commitments. So again, I dont think Miss 
R couldve sustainably afforded to repay this loan.
I asked both parties to provide me with anything further they waned me to consider 
before reaching a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. I have again kept 
this in mind when considering this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Miss R confirmed she agreed with the decision. 
Morses Club didnt provide a response. 
As neither party has provided anything new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. So it follows that I uphold this 
complaint in full.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had Morses not lent to Miss R. Clearly there are a great many 
possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss R may have simply left matters 
there, not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship 
existed between them and this particular lender. If this wasnt a viable option, they may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even 
possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would 
(or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender 
would have been able to lend to Miss R in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss R would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses Clubs liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right. So I think Morses Club should 
put thinks right in the following ways:
refund all interest and charges Miss R paid on both loans;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about the loans from Miss Rs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses Club to take off tax from this interest. 
Morses Club must give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
I understand Morses Club has since sold Miss Rs debt to a third party. Morses Club 
should buy the debt back to achieve the compensation Ive detailed above. If this isnt 
possible, Morses Club needs to calculate the equivalent sum required in line with above 
and pay the sum to the third party debt purchaser.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Rs complaint against Morses Club Plc and direct it to pay the compensation 
Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
