DRN-3802592
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by Norrix Financial Services Limited to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Mr C says he was referred to Norrix in early 2007 having received an offer from his former 
employer in relation to its DB scheme of which he was a deferred member. Mr C wanted 
some advice about the offer his former employer had made him and to discuss the options 
that were open to him. 
Norrix completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Cs circumstances. Following 
discussions around August 2007, Norrix advised Mr C to accept his employers offer of an 
enhanced cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) and to transfer his DB pension benefits 
into a personal pension and invest the proceeds with A in two funds  a retirement 
distribution fund and a property fund. Norrix sent Mr C a reasons why letter shortly after 
setting up his personal pension which said the reasons for making the recommendation were 
that Mr C would benefit by taking advantage of his former employers enhanced offer. Norrix 
has also said it thought the transfer was in Mr Cs best interests as there was a strong 
probability that he would receive a higher pension than by remaining in his DB scheme. 
Mr C complained to Norrix in April 2021. He said Norrix had failed to act in his best interests 
when transferring his pension and that he would be detrimentally affected by the transfer at 
retirement. Mr C said he wasnt fully and properly advised of the risks associated with 
making the transfer and that, if he had been, he would never have done it. Mr C said he had 
lost the safeguarded benefits of his DB scheme and these were benefits he couldnt afford to 
lose. Mr C also said that Norrix didnt gather sufficient and clear information about his 
personal and financial circumstances or properly consider his capacity for loss. 
Norrix looked into Mr Cs complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It issued 
Mr C with its final response letter in May 2021 and said he had been made aware of the risks 
associated with the transfer and that the advice it gave him was in his best interests. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to Norrix, Mr C complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that it was upheld. He thought 
there was no evidence to support Norrixs contention that the transfer was suitable for Mr C. 
Our investigator required Norrix to pay compensation to Mr C, including £400 for trouble and 
upset caused.
Norrix disagreed with our investigator. It said its recommendation to Mr C was expected to 
produce a pension for Mr C that would be a third higher than that expected from his DB 
scheme and a tax-free cash (TFC) payment more than two-thirds higher. So it said that 
clearly the recommendation to transfer was in Mr Cs best interests. And it said it made no 
promises that an increased pension was guaranteed. Norrix said that it had made it clear to 
Mr C that the projections he was given were based on investment performance. It also said 
the reasons why letter it sent Mr C shortly after the pension was set up emphasised the 
difference between his DB scheme and a personal pension and that there were several face-
to-face discussions between Mr C and the adviser so that he could make a properly 
informed decision. Norrix said Mr C fully understood he was exchanging a guaranteed 
pension for one based on investment performance. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint again but wasnt persuaded to change his mind so 
the complaint was referred to me and I issued a provisional decision in October 2022 
recommending that the complaint wasnt upheld. I made the following provisional findings:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business rules 
(COB). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Norrixs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
The provisions in COB 5.3 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. 
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to not to uphold the 
complaint; Ill explain why. 
The then regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA), stated in COB that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Norrix should have 
only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Cs best 
interests (COB 5.3.29G). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Financial viability 
Mr C approached Norrix for advice because he was unsure what to do about his deferred DB 
scheme. His former employer had by this point closed the scheme and had recently written 
to all deferred members to make them an offer. Mr Cs former employer said he could 
choose to remain a deferred member of the scheme, or he could transfer his CETV to a 
personal pension and receive a cash payment for doing so, or he could transfer an 
enhanced CETV to a personal pension. After consulting with Norrix, Mr C decided to choose 
the third option. His CETV was valued at £178,184.20 and the additional enhancement was 
£119,179.64. In total, Mr C transferred £297,933.84.
Mr C has recently told us that he transferred his DB scheme on Norrixs advice with the 
objective of making it grow; that Norrix advised him to transfer because he would be financially better off in retirement as he would see a better rate of growth from a personal 
pension than he would from his DB scheme. He went on to tell us that the potential for 
higher growth persuaded him it was in his best interests to transfer his DB scheme. It doesnt 
appear that Mr C had any other objectives in mind, other than improving on his DB scheme 
benefits. 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on its website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the occupational pension at normal 
retirement age (age 65) was quoted as 5.3% per year (if Mr C took the TFC). If Mr C took 
benefits at age 60, the critical yield increased to 7.6% (if he took TFC).
At the time of the advice Mr C received from Norrix in 2007 his intended retirement age was 
65 (according to the selected retirement age stated on his pension schedule). Although he 
later changed his normal retirement age to age 60, it wasnt until 2018 that he did so, so my 
findings here are based on Mr C retiring at age 65 which is what Mr C communicated to 
Norrix in 2007. I also think its reasonable to assume that Mr C would have taken the tax-free 
cash at retirement given that it is a tax efficient way of drawing down a personal pension. 
So, the critical yield identified in the Transfer Value Analysis report (TVAS) for matching the 
benefits at age 65 of 5.3% compares very favourably with, and is indeed significantly lower 
than, the discount rate of 6.5% per year for 19 years to retirement. For further comparison, 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle projection rate 7%, and 
the lower projection rate 5% per year. So it is reasonable to assume, based on the fact that 
the critical yield was lower than both the discount rate of 6.5% and the regulators middle 
projection rate I have cited above, that Mr C could have matched, and likely exceeded, the 
guaranteed benefits offered by his DB scheme at his normal retirement age of 65.  
Whilst there is no documented evidence from the time of the advice about what Mr Cs 
attitude to risk was he has recently told us that he considers he has a medium attitude to 
risk. He has also said that he thought that returns of 6% or 7 % per year (which is what the 
adviser told him hed need to achieve in order to match the benefits of his DB scheme) were 
something he was comfortable with. 
As Mr Cs attitude to risk is and was, by his own account, medium, it is reasonable to 
assume that a critical yield of 5.3% based on that attitude to risk was achievable. As Mr C 
has classified himself as having a medium attitude to risk it is also reasonable to assume 
that he would be prepared to make the investments needed to try and attain that level of 
growth.
I take into account too to the point made by Norrix that the funds Mr C invested in  and in 
particular the property fund  indicate that he was someone who had a moderate approach 
to investment risk such that could achieve the gains necessary to exceed the benefits 
offered by his DB scheme. 
The last valuation I have seen for Mr Cs personal pension plan is from 18 May 2021 where I 
note that the fund value had increased in the intervening 14 years to £527,531.53  an 
increase of just under £230,000 since the CETV was transferred. Im unable to say whether 
a fund of this size is now sufficient for Mr C to purchase an annuity providing comparable benefits to his DB scheme at 65. All I can say is that I think the transfer  given the critical 
yield was lower than both the discount rate and the regulators mid-projection rate  met 
Mr Cs objective of exceeding the benefits his DB scheme provided. 
Mr C was offered a very significant cash incentive by his employer in order to transfer his DB 
benefits away from the company scheme. The cash incentive that formed part of the CETV 
meant that the critical yield Mr Cs personal pension needed to achieve in order to match his 
DB scheme benefits was substantially reduced to a level which meant there was a real 
prospect of him improving on the safeguarded benefits he had given up. It follows that I 
consider that the transfer of Mr Cs DB scheme to a personal pension to be a financially 
viable one. 
Death benefits
I can see that the DB scheme included a spouses pension equal to 50% of Mr Cs accrued 
pension in the event of his death and a dependents pension of 33.33% of the spouses 
pension payable to age 18 (or 23 if in full time education). Small lump sums were also 
payable. At the time of the advice, Mr C wasnt married. He did have a partner however, and 
three children. It isnt clear whether Mr Cs partner couldve benefitted from the spouses 
pension without being married to him. There is also no information available about the age of 
Mr Cs children at the time of the advice but, given he himself was only aged 45, it is 
reasonable to assume that they were dependent. So, it seems Mr Cs family couldve 
benefitted from the death benefits attached to the DB scheme. But there is little information 
available either about what Mr C thought at the time about the guaranteed death benefits he 
was giving up by transferring his DB scheme. 
But given the financial incentive Mr C received to transfer his scheme (and despite the lack 
of any contemporaneous information about what Mr C thought) I think it was worth Mr C 
giving up the guaranteed death benefits provided by the DB scheme in order to potentially 
achieve higher growth in his personal pension plan. And I think that the ability to pass on 
whatever remained of his personal pension fund to a beneficiary of his choice on his death 
would no doubt have been appealing to him. So, while I accept Mr C lost the guaranteed 
death benefits by transferring out of the DB scheme, overall I think that it was suitable advice 
to transfer out of the scheme given his objective to increase his pension. And by transferring 
it gave him flexibility to pass on whatever remained of his pension on his death as he saw fit.
Summary 
It follows that I dont think the recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme was 
unsuitable for Mr C given the very real potential for higher growth which would allow him to 
improve on the benefits his DB scheme offered.
Norrix replied to my provisional decision to say that it agreed with my provisional findings. 
Mr Cs representative replied on his behalf to say that he didnt agree with my provisional 
decision. It made the following comments in response:
Mr C was introduced to Norrix by another financial adviser. He did not approach 
Norrix himself.
Mr C wanted to know if it was in his best interests to take up his employers offer of 
an enhanced CETV.
Mr Cs IFA introduced him to Norrix because he wasnt authorised to process the 
transfer of a DB scheme. Mr Cs IFA led Mr C to believe that if he didnt move his DB 
scheme it wouldnt grow.Mr C didnt have the knowledge or experience to understand the benefits associated 
with his DB scheme. He relied on the advice he received. 
Norrix didnt collect or present sufficient information which could demonstrate Mr C 
was properly advised. 
The advice process didnt include obtaining Mr Cs objectives or risk profile.
Mr C was unable to make an informed decision about the transfer because Norrix 
didnt provide him with information about death benefits, costs or investment risks. 
Norrix didnt explain to Mr C that he held valuable guaranteed death benefits in the 
scheme.
Norrix didnt use a questionnaire to establish Mr Cs ATR. In order to assess 
someones ATR usually a questionnaire is completed followed by a discussion. It is 
unfair to rely on the answers Mr C gave to the questions this service recently asked 
him about his ATR because Norrix never carried out any risk profiling.
Mr Cs lack of investment experience means that he doesnt fully understand the link 
between investment risk and capacity for loss. 
Mr Cs objective wasnt to seek growth it was to seek advice about whether his 
employers offer would benefit his retirement. If Mr C had known about the valuable 
guaranteed benefits his DB offered he wouldve chosen to remain a member 
because the scheme was his only pension.
Even if Norrix had carried out risk profiling and assessed Mr C as having a medium 
ATR it wouldnt justify the transfer.
It agreed the critical yield of 5.3% may be achievable with a medium ATR but 
irrespective of that the tangible benefits of the DB scheme would have been better for 
Mr C compared to the investment risk associated with the personal pension.
The critical yield shouldnt be used to justify the transfer without there also being an 
overriding objective.
Mr C did not ask to invest in the property fund.
Good investment returns can mask unsuitable advice but in Mr Cs case it is obvious 
the advice itself was unsuitable. 
Norrixs commission of over £20,000 wasnt disclosed to Mr C.
Mr C lost guaranteed pension benefits as a result of the advice he received. He 
wasnt provided with enough information to understand what he was doing.
The complaint was returned to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to both parties for responding to my provisional decision. Ive thought about what 
they have said but I havent been persuaded to change my mind from what I decided 
provisionally; I remain of the view that this is a complaint that shouldnt be upheld. Ill explain 
why and Ill address each of the submissions listed above which Mr Cs representative made 
on his behalf in response to my provisional decision. 
I note that Mr C was introduced to Norrix by another financial adviser (who wasnt authorised 
by the regulator to arrange and advise pension transfers). That being the case, it doesnt 
have any material bearing on my view about the outcome of Mr Cs complaint.
I already accepted provisionally that in 2007 Mr C was seeking advice about the offer his 
former employer had made him and to discuss his options. Put differently, Mr C wanted to 
know if it was in his best interests to accept the offer hed been made. Mr C says his IFA led him to believe his DB pension wouldnt grow. Any complaint Mr C has 
about what his IFA led him to believe must be made to his IFA. I cant look at that complaint 
for him here. Nevertheless, I note that the letter Norrix sent him dated 3 October 2007 
explained the differences between the two schemes and how they compared. So, I dont 
think theres evidence to suggest Norrix misled him here.
I appreciate that Mr C was relying on the advice he received from Norrix; for the reasons I 
gave provisionally, I think the advice he received from Norrix to transfer was suitable in his 
circumstances. 
I dont know what information Norrix collected from Mr C at the time of the advice. I agree 
with Mr Cs representative that it does appear however that very little information  if indeed 
there was any collected at the time  was retained. There certainly is very limited 
contemporaneous documentary evidence available for me to consider. But notwithstanding 
any failure to produce or retain information which could demonstrate how it advised Mr C, I 
remain of the view that Norrixs transfer of his DB scheme to a personal pension was a 
financially viable one. And Im satisfied based on the limited paperwork Ive seen that Mr C 
was interested in growing his pension. So given Mr Cs only objective was to grow his 
pension I think the transfer, for the reasons I gave provisionally, was in Mr Cs best interests.
I agree that the advice process didnt seem to include assessing Mr Cs attitude to risk or 
capacity for loss  thats because there was no regulatory requirement at that point in time 
for Norrix to do so. It is therefore unsurprising that no ATR questionnaire exists from the time 
of the advice. But it isnt reasonable to assume that the advice was unsuitable in the 
absence of this. My role is to consider what should have happened if Norrix had advised 
Mr C fairly and in line with the existing regulations and guidance. And I think this would 
include Norrix doing some sort of assessment of Mr Cs risk appetite in order to give him 
suitable advice.
In the absence of that information, and in order to reach a fair and reasonable decision about 
Mr Cs complaint, we asked Mr C some open questions about what his ATR was at the time 
of the advice in order to assist me by providing a retrospective perspective of Mr Cs ATR. I 
see no reason not to take Mr Cs answers to our questions as given. That Norrix didnt ask 
Mr C any questions about his ATR in 2007 doesnt reasonably mean I should ignore the 
answers he gave to our recent questions. And the answers Mr C gave were only part of the 
risk picture in any event. In trying to understand what Mr Cs attitude to risk was at the time 
of the advice Ive also thought about his overall circumstances.
Mr Cs representative says this was his only pension and he had no capacity for loss. But 
Mr C was 45 at the time of the advice, and he expected to work for another 20 years. So, in 
my view he (and/or his employer) had sufficient time to make further contributions to this or 
another pension. Even if the contributions were modest, this wouldve provided Mr C with 
extra funds, in addition to his state pension, at retirement  so I do think he had capacity for 
loss. And given the horizon to retirement, I think Mr C could tolerate short-term losses and 
fluctuations in value in order to benefit from long-term capital growth. I appreciate that Mr C 
wasnt an experienced investor, but overall I dont think its unreasonable to say he could 
afford to take some risk and he had some capacity for loss. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, I think transferring out of the scheme was in Mr Cs best 
interests. I havent reached this view based on the critical yield alone, but rather on Mr Cs 
circumstances and objectives. I think his circumstances meant he could afford to take some 
risk - he had 20 years to build up further retirement benefits - and he was likely to be able to 
exceed the benefits his DB scheme provided, which met his objective of growing his 
pension.Nothing Mr Cs representative has said about the death benefits Mr C was giving up has 
persuaded me to change my mind from what I decided provisionally about this particular 
issue. I accepted provisionally that Mr Cs family couldve potentially benefitted from the 
death benefits attached to the DB scheme  although it seems to me that any benefit due to 
his children would be limited as the dependents pension would generally only be paid to age 
23 if in full-time education. But I remain of the view that such was the financial incentive Mr C 
received (from his employer) to transfer his scheme (and despite the lack of any 
contemporaneous information about what Mr C thought) I think it was worth Mr C giving up 
the guaranteed death benefits provided by the DB scheme in order to potentially achieve 
higher growth in his personal pension plan. And as a consequence of transferring, Mr C 
achieved greater flexibility and could nominate different beneficiaries of his residual fund on 
his death.
I accept Mr C lost valuable death benefits by transferring, and I accept too that he may have 
had limited or no information available to him at the time of the advice about what it was he 
was ceding, but overall I still think that it was suitable advice to transfer out of the scheme 
given Mr Cs sole objective was to increase his pension.
Whilst I note that Mr C said he didnt ask to invest in the property fund I also note the 
testimony of his financial adviser who stated that Mr C was particularly interested in the 
property fund. I cant know with any certainty what was and what wasnt discussed at the 
time but the funds Norrix invested Mr Cs pension in are ones that align with his ATR. So I 
dont think that they were unsuitable for him, regardless of whether he did or didnt ask to 
invest in them at the time. 
For the reasons I gave provisionally, Im unable to agree that the advice Norrix gave Mr C 
was unsuitable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman