DRN-2931727
The complaint
  Mr C has complained that Advancis Limited (trading as Buddy Loans) lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
 Mr C was given a fixed term guarantor loan by Buddy Loans. The details of this is given 
below:
Date taken Instalments Amount Repayments
13/06/2018 36 £1500 £73.18
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Buddy Loans on the occasion it lent to Mr C asked for information about his income and 
expenditure. It also says it verified his wages, carried out a credit check and used data from 
the Office of National Statistics to compare alongside the expenditure he declared. It says it 
added a buffer to the amount it had calculated for Mr Cs expenditure.
Buddy Loans say the checks it carried out showed that Mr C had enough disposable income 
to afford the loan repayments, but I dont need to draw any conclusions about what it says it 
did at the time and whether it did carry out sufficient checks on this occasion. This is 
because, on balance, I dont think Buddy Loans made a fair lending decision on this loan 
and I will explain why.
Mr C asked for the loan on 13 June 2018 for £1500 and when he did this, he told it about his 
income and expenditure. when I see Buddy Loans income and expenditure calculation I can 
see, on the face of it, Mr C had sufficient income to be able to afford the loan.
But the lender was aware from the credit check it had acquired (and supplied to our service) 
that Mr C had delinquent accounts and other adverse credit data, that I am currently minded 
to think, should have shown it that he wouldnt have been in a position to make the loan 
repayments in a sustainable way. 
I say this because I can see on the credit search results Buddy Loans had in front of it, 
adverse credit data that shows Mr C was having problems manging his finances at the time 
he asked for the loan. There are four accounts that have been marked as delinquent by 
other finance providers that includes a credit card account and three unsecured loans. Mr C 
had missed a repayment on another credit card also. I can see that he was over his credit 
limits in general with the search showing he was using 112% of what was available to him. 
Mr C also had 6 defaulted accounts that hadnt been settled with amounts still left to repay. 
When I look at this all in the round, I think it clearly shows, in particular with his delinquent 
accounts, that Mr C was struggling to manage his finances. I think it would have been 
reasonable for Buddy Loans to conclude that despite the disposable income calculation that 
it arrived at, Mr C was struggling to manage his finances and that more likely than not he 
wouldnt have been able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. Especially due to the fact 
this loan was due to be repaid over a term of 36 months.
The loan payments being affordable on a pounds and pence basis, something Buddy Loans 
says was the case, might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their 
repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant 
regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulty  in particular without 
incurring or increasing problem indebtedness. The customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Taking matters as a whole, I think on balance that Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have 
realised that Mr C was finding it difficult to repay his existing credit commitments. It was 
unlikely that he would be able to sustainably repay the loan over the extended terms 
provided. I think in these particular circumstances (from the adverse credit information on his 
report); Buddy Loans should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend 
to him.
Taking everything into account, I dont currently think Buddy Loans should have agreed to 
provide the loan to Mr C. So, I am currently intending to uphold this complaint and direct 
Buddy Loans to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Mr C responded and said he had no further comments. Buddy 
Loans did not respond.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Both parties have not made any further points. So, as neither party has anything further to 
add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With 
that being the case, Buddy Loans now needs to put things right. 
 
Putting things right
 I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he has had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on 
lending that shouldnt have been provided to him.
Buddy Loans should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the lending and treat all the payments Mr C 
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Cs loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Buddy Loans should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to the loan.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Advancis Limited trading as 
Buddy Loans to put things right as described above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman