DRN-4120139
The complaint
Mr K has complained that a car he bought, using his Lloyds Bank PLC credit card to pay the 
deposit, isnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr K bought a used car for £11,000. He used his Lloyds credit card to pay the 
deposit. Hes explained that he noticed a fault on his way home from collecting the car, so 
took it to a local engineer, which provided him with a report setting out faults, including a loss 
of coolant.
Mr K contacted Lloyds, to raise a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Lloyds responded, asking for a more detailed report. In October 2022, DEKRA inspected the 
car. He was unhappy with the inspection, so they came again and provided a further report. 
This concluded that there were no faults present, or developing, at the point of sale. Mr K 
then took his car to another garage, but it couldnt locate a fault.
Lloyds said that it had reviewed the claim a number of times, but was still declining it. Mr K 
then brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She could see that the car was 
advertised as being five years old, with 126,000 miles on the clock, and had passed an MOT 
in March 2022, with no advisories. So, it would be expected that parts of the vehicle might 
have already suffered notable wear and tear. And theres a greater risk this vehicle might 
need repair and/or maintenance sooner than a vehicle which wasnt as road-worn when it 
was supplied. She said that, for the car to not have been of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied, it would have to be because of an issue that went beyond wear and tear.
Mr K has explained that the car is losing coolant on long trips, and overheating. He provided 
a report, but this was in no way conclusive, as no faults were actually found. There was then 
a further report, which, after a 70 mile test drive, didnt find a coolant leak, the oil level was 
correct, there was no overheating, and no visible leaks.
Accordingly, she couldnt agree there was a fault with the car. So, our investigator didnt 
think it fair to ask Lloyds to do more in this regard.
However, she agreed that Lloyds had not handled Mr Ks claim entirely well, as it gave him 
cause to believe his claim may be upheld. It had paid him £100 in recognition of this, and our 
investigator thought this was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator. I know that Mr K feels very strongly about this, 
and it will come as a disappointment. But, there is no evidence of a fault, despite numerous 
attempts to locate one. On this basis, I cant find a fault, so I cant make an award for one. I 
know this will be upsetting, but I have carefully assessed and considered everything Ive 
been provided with.
I can see though, that the way Mr Ks claim was handled wasnt what he should have 
expected. Lloyds recognised this, before our service became involved, and gave Mr K £100 
compensation. I agree this was fair. So, I dont require Lloyds to do anything more.
My final decision
Its my final decision that the £100 already paid by Lloyds Bank PLC is fair. If this hasnt 
been paid, it must be now.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman