DRN-2040965
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc want to charge him 45 pence per mile 
(ppm) for using his car following a successful rejection.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
The only issue between Mr T and Santander is the amount charged for fair usage. Mr 
T agrees that Santander can make a charge, but he doesnt agree that 45ppm is fair 
or reasonable. I agree that this is too high and is the rate used by HMRC to reflect all 
associated costs in travelling. This includes costs such as maintenance and 
depreciation. I dont think this is a fair method of calculation.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 states that a finance company is entitled to make a 
deduction for fair use. It doesnt set out what rate or method should be used. Mr Ts 
finance agreement doesnt set out what deductions can be made in the event of a 
rejection either. 
Our approach is to look at all of the circumstances and decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Usually we look at whether a consumer has had 
the benefit of a monthly instalment. In this case Mr T has been able to travel as he 
was expecting to in the car, as the issues are in relation to the entertainment system. 
In these circumstances I think that the monthly instalment represents fair usage.
I understand the points Santander is making about the mileage covered and the 
depreciation of the car. But Mr T was expecting to own the car at the end of the 
agreement and so the monthly instalments also represent a future value that he was 
expecting to have the benefit of. 
Mr T paid a significant deposit and so his monthly instalments were low but 
calculating fair usage isnt a science and I dont think he should be disadvantaged 
because he chose to finance his car in this way. 
In the circumstances I think that retaining the monthly instalments is the fairest way 
of reflecting the usage that Mr T has had from the car.  
Putting things right
To put things right Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should arrange to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay;
Retain all of the monthly payments made under the agreement;
Collect the car at no cost to Mr T;
Refund the deposit paid together with 8% simple interest from the date it was paid 
until the date Mr T gets it back;
Remove any adverse information about the agreement from Mr Ts credit file;
Pay Mr T £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Santander should put things right by 
doing what I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman