DRN-3052157
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money). 
Theyre unhappy that:
They were unable to port their mortgage with Virgin Money as Virgin Money wouldnt 
lend on the property they wanted to buy. 
Clydesdale was happy to accept the application, and as its part of the same group 
as Virgin Money they feel they should have the same lending criteria
Because they had to take a mortgage with a different lender entirely to buy the 
property they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) to Virgin Money.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of the complaint is brief and I know the parties went into a lot of detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
I do understand the importance of Mr and Mrs Js house move and the reasons for it. And I 
can understand why, in the light of that, they feel Virgin Moneys decision is unfair. Ive taken 
account of their view when considering whether Virgin Money acted fairly and reasonably, 
and Ive had a look at and considered all the available evidence. 
This service isnt the regulator; regulation is the responsibility of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Our service therefore doesnt have the power to make rules for financial 
businesses, or direct that they change their policy or procedures. We look at what happened 
in the circumstances of the individual complaint and check that, in this case Virgin Money, 
followed its rules and procedures  as well as those set by the regulator and any relevant 
industry guidance and good practice - and applied them fairly
Virgin Money reviewed Mr and Mrs Js enquiry about porting their mortgage and it said it 
wouldnt be willing to lend against the new property. Mr and Mrs J were given a very prompt 
answer and having considered Virgin Moneys lending policy I can see that decision is in line 
with its normal criteria. Ive read the relevant part of Virgin Moneys internal lending policy 
documents and Im satisfied it has correctly followed that. As this information is commercially 
sensitive were unable to disclose it to Mr and Mrs J, but Ive seen the information and Im 
satisfied Virgin Money fairly applied it to the enquiry.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Js point that Clydesdale Bank would lend against the property, 
but at the time in question, whilst they were part of the same group, they were still operating 
as two separate lenders with their own lending policies.
When Mr and Mrs J complained about the differences in the lending policy Virgin Money said 
 as a way to try to resolve the complaint  it would waive the ERC if they went ahead with 
the application through Clydesdale, but unfortunately by then Mr and Mrs J had already 
decided to apply for a mortgage with a different lender.
The mortgage offer that Mr and Mrs J agreed to when securing the mortgage sets out the 
ERC. It explains when an ERC will be payable and gives cash examples of how much that 
would be at specific points over the term of the mortgage. Im satisfied that the ERC was 
clearly presented in the mortgage offer. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs J feel they were placed into a position where if they wanted to 
proceed with their new house purchase it required moving to a new lender, and in so doing 
that triggered the imposition of the ERC. 
Mr and Mrs J have said Whilst Virgin money might be entitled to choose whether to proceed 
with a loan or not at its own discretion, it does still have a duty to exercise fairness in 
imposing the ERC when exercising that discretion But Virgin Money had a contractual 
right to charge an ERC if Mr and Mrs J repaid the mortgage before 1 August 2021. Equally 
Virgin Money was entitled to consider any request for a mortgage against its lending criteria. 
Once Virgin Money said it wasnt willing to grant a mortgage on the property they wanted to 
buy, Mr and Mrs J had a choice to make  either they didnt buy the property at that time, or 
they bought it with a mortgage from another lender on the understanding they would incur 
the ERC with Virgin Money.
It isnt an abuse of its position as a lender for Virgin Money to hold Mr and Mrs J to the 
contract they entered into and thus charge them an ERC when they chose to repay the 
mortgage early as they wanted to move to a house Virgin Money was unwilling to lend 
money against. Mr and Mrs J wanted to vary the contract by having the lending secured 
against a different property and Virgin Money wasnt willing to agree to that; thats not unfair 
or an abuse of power. If the property Mr and Mrs J wanted to move to met Virgin Moneys 
lending criteria then Ive no reason to doubt an application to port their mortgage would have 
gone through, and the ERC wouldnt have been charged.
A complaint was made to Virgin Money on 3 March 2020, and as part of the resolution of 
that complaint it said that if the new mortgage had been taken with Clydesdale then it would 
waive the ERC. 
Unfortunately, despite the other lender having a higher interest rate, Mr and Mrs J say they 
went with the other lender as they were not in good conscience able to take a mortgage with 
Clydesdale, as they felt strongly that it was wrong they should have to pay an ERC in order 
to take a mortgage with the very same bank. And they then complained about three weeks 
before the sale of their property completed. 
Virgin Money phoned Mr and Mrs J about their complaint on 23 April saying that if the new 
mortgage was with Clydesdale then it would waive the ERC. But by then the purchase had 
gone through with the other lender so that resolution couldnt be realised. 
Mr and Mrs J say Virgin Money was aware that Clydesdale was willing to lend against the 
property in January 2020, but it didnt say they could proceed with Clydesdale and it would 
waive the ERC. An offer to resolve a complaint isnt an admission that something went 
wrong; it isnt unusual for a business to try to find a way to resolve things irrespective of fault. Here, Virgin Money thought it could resolve the complaint by waiving the ERC if Mr and Mrs 
J took the new mortgage with Clydesdale. That doesnt mean it was wrong to say no to that 
if previously asked in January 2020, or that we would have ordered it to do so if the 
complaint had come to us without that offer having been made. But, in terms of trying to 
resolve this complaint that seems a very fair offer for it to have made.
Ive no reason to think that if Mr and Mrs J had formally raised their complaint in January 
2020 when Clydesdale said it would lend against the property, then the same offer wouldnt 
have been made as a resolution to that, thus allowing them to buy the property with a 
mortgage from Clydesdale without incurring the ERC. But, unfortunately, by the time they 
complained it was too late. Whilst the complaint was made a few weeks before completion, 
Virgin Money had eight weeks to investigate and respond to a complaint, so it was too late.  I 
cant hold Virgin Money liable for that, and there are no grounds for me to order it to refund 
the ERC that was fairly charged when Mr and Mrs J repaid their mortgage within the fixed 
rate term.
Mr and Mrs J have said that Clydesdale didnt follow its own complaints handling procedure. 
They say that whilst they received an acknowledgement letter on 6 March 2020, they should 
then have received an update on progress by 18 March  which they didnt receive. Whilst I 
note their comments that this would have been before the sale went through, Im not 
persuaded it would have made any difference to the outcome. Ill explain. Virgin Money 
wasnt ready to give its substantive response at that time, otherwise it would have done so. 
All it would have send by 18 March would have been a standard templated holding letter. 
The fact Mr and Mrs J didnt receive a standard holding letter doesnt impact on the overall 
outcome of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs J are also concerned that Virgin Money didnt read their complaint 
letter thoroughly, and so didnt understand the situation. Our rules set out the matters that 
we can look at as being; regulated activities, payment services, lending money, paying 
money by plastic card, and ancillary banking services. In addition, we can consider 
complaints about ancillary activities carried on in connection with the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator -
the Financial Conduct Authority - requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to 
make it a regulated activity within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of 
activities set out in the legislation from which we derive our powers.
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, for 
example, if the complaint handling was ancillary to something we have the power to 
consider. So we can, in theory, consider how Virgin Money handled Mr and Mrs Js 
complaint.
But there is another thing that we need to consider and that is that we can only make an 
award for any poor customer service in handling a complaint if were upholding the 
underlying issue being complained about. As Ive not upheld Mr and Mrs Js complaint it 
follows I cant uphold any complaint about how Virgin Money handled it.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman