DRN-2943724
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) didnt tell him that his promotional interest 
free offer was ending and also complains that he couldnt access his online account 
statements.
What happened
Mr R says he was unable to view his online account statements from when his account was 
opened. He doesnt accept that he requested online statements. Mr R says he thought the 
interest free period on a balance transfer ended in 2020 but when he did manage to access 
his statements that year could see it had ended some time before. He says he did increase 
his minimum payment in December 2018 as he thought his promotional rate might be ending 
shortly and says BoS should have told him the expiry date in any event. In summary Mr R 
says he wasnt told about the rate ending and was prevented from accessing his account 
statements and so would like the interest he paid refunded.
BoS says the account was opened in 2016 and the balance transfer interest free period 
ended on 13 July 2018. It says it correctly applied interest after that date in line with the 
account terms and conditions and hasnt made a mistake. BoS says it sent a text message 
to Mr Rs mobile telephone in June 2018 to tell him the offer was expiring and says it has no 
record of Mr R asking for paper statements or telling it about access problems.
Mr R brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought BoS had applied interest when the offer ended in line with account terms and 
conditions. The investigator thought Mr R hadnt told BoS about access problems and that it 
had sent a text message to him.
Mr R doesnt accept that view and says he could access his account online but couldnt 
access the account statements. He says he could eventually access the statements in 2020 
and then realised interest had been applied. Mr R maintains BoS is at fault for what took 
place.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr R will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at Mr Rs account terms and conditions which I think he would have 
agreed to when the account was first opened, and the balance transfer made. Those terms 
and conditions make clear that interest will be applied when the promotional interest free 
period ended in July 2018.  Im satisfied that Mr R hadnt cleared the balance in July 2018 
and so BoS was entitled in line with those terms and conditions to apply interest. I dont think 
BoS made a mistake or acted unfairly when it did so.
Im satisfied that Mr R ought reasonably to have been aware when he took out the balance 
transfer when the promotional interest free period ended and that BoS made that information 
clear at the outset. I find it was Mr Rs responsibility to manage his account and that BoS 
would not reasonably have been aware that Mr R had made a mistake in calculating the end 
of the promotional period. I can see that Mr R told us that in December 2018 he thought the 
promotional period was shortly to end but later told us he thought it ended in June 2020. I 
think that provides additional evidence that Mr R was unsure about the expiry date and so I 
would have expecting him in those circumstances to have asked BoS what the expiry date 
was.
I appreciate Mr R says he was unable to view his account statements. I dont know why that 
was or what he did differently in 2020 when he was able to access them. But Im satisfied 
that Mr R must have realised that he couldnt access the account statements. And in 
circumstances where he was unsure of the expiry date of the promotional offer, I would 
reasonably have expected him to have told BoS of that difficulty.
I also appreciate Mr R says that BoS should have told him the promotional period was about 
to end. But I have made clear that I find it was up to Mr R to manage his account and that he 
ought to have been aware of that expiry date. I have looked at BoSs records and can see it 
sent a text message to Mr R about the expiry date in June 2018 and I also think BoS made 
that information clear in the account statements. I cant see any evidence that BoS used an 
incorrect telephone number.
BoS doesnt have a record of how the account was set up and how the paperless statements 
option was requested. I accept it unlikely Mr R would have selected that choice and it may 
have been the default setting but, in any event, I would have expected him to have told BoS 
that for some years he hadnt been able to access the statements.
Overall, Im satisfied BoS hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly. Im also satisfied this was 
Mr Rs account and it was up to him to manage it and be aware of the offer expiry date which 
I think was made clear to him when the offer was taken out. For those reasons I cant fairly 
order BoS to refund the interest which I find was correctly applied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman