DRN-2405309
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nelson Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on his taxi 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R was a mini-cab driver. Nelson was the insurance company responsible for dealing with 
claims under his taxi insurance policy for the period to April 2019.
Where I refer to Nelson, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Nelson 
responsible for their actions.
On 8 April 2019 a third party made a claim to Nelson. The third party said that Mr R had hit 
his vehicle in the rear on 3 March 2019 and caused a soft tissue or whiplash injury. 
Mr R denies being involved in any such accident. He complained to Nelson that it wasnt 
defending the claim properly.
Mr R first contacted us on 22 January 2020.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that Nelson 
hadnt dealt with the claim within a reasonable timescale. He said it had kept the claim file 
open for a year based on a single piece of uncompelling evidence (an image of Mr Rs 
vehicle). He recommended that Nelson should:
1. ensure that the incident is removed from the claims and underwriting exchange 
(CUE);
2. only log that Mr R had been involved in an accident on this database again if Nelson 
are required to do so  for example if sealed court papers are received regarding the 
claim or on receipt of a certificate from the Department of Work and Pensions 
compensation recovery unit for NHS costs;
3. send written confirmation that Mr Rs no claims discount hasnt been affected by this 
incident;
4. pay Mr R £200.00 in compensation for inconvenience.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and to Nelson on 30 October 2010. I summarise my findings:
 I didnt find it unreasonable that Nelson kept the claim open.
I didnt find it fair and reasonable to direct Nelson to adjust the information on CUE or 
to adjust its record of Mr Rs no claims discount. And I didnt intend to direct Nelson 
to pay Mr R any compensation.
Subject to any further information from Mr R or from Nelson, my provisional decision was 
that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct Nelson Insurance 
Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Neither Mr R nor Nelson has responded to the provisional decision. So I see no reason to 
change my view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most motor insurance policies contain terms that allows the insurer to decide how to deal 
with a third partys claim. Nelsons policy contained the following terms:
We may, at our discretion, take over and conduct in your name  the defence, 
prosecution or settlement of any claim for our own benefit.
We shall have full discretion over the conduct of any proceedings and 
settlement of claims. 
The effect of those terms was that Nelsons view of liability would prevail over Mr Rs view. 
But I will consider whether Nelson applied those terms fairly and reasonably.
Nelson received a claim from the third party, and it was legally obliged to deal with it.
Nelson noted the third partys claim that Mr R had hit the rear of his stationary vehicle. 
Nelson noted that Mr R said he hadnt been involved in any such accident.
Nelson arranged an inspection to investigate the nature and location of damage to Mr Rs 
vehicle. On 8 May 2019, the report noted several small scratches and scuffs to the front of 
his vehicle.
Nelson investigated Mr Rs job sheets to see where he had been driving in the early hours of 
3 March 2019. He was in the area where the third party alleged the accident took place. And 
the third party had taken a photograph of Mr Rs vehicle.
In response to the investigators opinion, Mr R provided a copy of a letter terminating his 
driving role with effect from 18 December 2019. It included the following:
multiple reports from your riders of being too tired to operate a vehicle with due 
care and attention, coupled with additional reports from your riders of dangerous or 
distracted driving.
That is evidence of multiple reports from passengers about Mr Rs driving. I cant say that 
any of those reports sheds any light on what did or did not happen on 3 March 2019. But I 
find that it was those multiple reports  not Nelsons claims-handling  that was responsible 
for Mr R losing his driving role in December 2019 and having to find another.In any event, whilst the third partys claim may not be one of the strongest, Im satisfied that 
Nelson did a reasonable and proportionate investigation. It weighed up the conflicting 
versions of events. It concluded that its prospects of success did not justify the costs and risk 
of defending the claim.
The limitation rules permit the third party to issue personal injury proceedings at any time up 
to three years after 3 March 2019.
So I dont find it unreasonable that Nelson kept the claim open. I say that notwithstanding 
that the open claim may have been one of the factors that caused the increases in the cost 
of Mr Rs insurance after his policy with Nelson expired in April 2019.
Overall, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Nelson to adjust the information on CUE 
or to adjust its record of Mr Rs no claims discount. And I dont direct Nelson to pay Mr R any 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Nelson Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman