DRN-4079782
The complaint
Mr E complains that Brewin Dolphin Limited (BD) did not advise him to claim tax relief on his 
contributions to his occupational Additional Voluntary Contribution pension scheme (AVCs). 
As a result, Mr E says he has suffered a financial loss for which he would like to be 
compensated.
What happened
Mr E started contributing to his occupational AVCs in 2006. 
In May 2017, Mr E sought advice from BD after taking partial early retirement and receiving 
a tax-free lump sum from his occupational pension scheme.
Mr E remained a client of BD for around three years. During this time BD gave him financial 
advice and completed financial reviews.
In 2022, Mr E you became aware that he could have claimed additional tax back on his
AVCs as he was a higher rate taxpayer. He contacted HMRC directly and reclaimed the last 
four years contributions.
Mr E was very disappointed that BD had not made him aware that he could be eligible to 
reclaim tax back on his AVCs. He complained to BD as he believed that as part of the 
financial planning process it should have made him aware of this and this would have 
enabled him to potentially claim the tax relief back to 2013/2014.
On 11 October 2022, BD issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. It said 
BD are not tax advisors and it was Mr Es responsibility to manage his own tax personal tax 
affairs.
Mr E remained unhappy with the outcome and so he brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr E. He didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. He found that 
BDs terms and condition made it very clear that it was not providing personal tax advice. As 
such he didnt agree that BD had acted unfairly or unreasonably and so, he didnt ask it to do 
anything further.
Mr E disagreed. He points to a number of references in the literature BD provided which 
reference tax efficiently and allowances as part of the advice process. He gives examples of 
statements such as:
 .. 'Clients value our personalised financial planning advice on structuring their wealth tax 
efficiently' 
and in the Suitability Letter
You would like to utilise your available tax allowance and reliefs
Mr E also says he provided BD with his P60 and HMRC coding Notices going back at least 3 
years as BD were advising him on an income tax query. He argues he had every reason to 
assume it would and should have alerted him to any tax relief he should be claiming on his 
AVC contributions. He asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the evidence and arguments from the outset, in order to decide what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to 
the same conclusions as our investigator for broadly the same reasons. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr E, Ill explain why.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr E and by BD. 
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
The key issue for me to decide is whether BD, as Mr Es financial advisers, were responsible 
for providing personal tax advice that included informing him of any eligibility for claiming 
back tax relief on any AVC contributions.
I can see from the information available that the investigator has had extensive discussions 
with Mr E on the difference between tax efficiency and tax advice.
In summary, as the investigator has already said, when an advisor gives financial advice, it 
is considered suitable advice that any recommendations use the most tax efficient products 
first, this is because if all things being equal a tax efficient product should generate a higher 
return. This is especially important if the client is a higher or additional rate taxpayer.
But this is not the same as providing specific personal tax advice. This is why in the terms 
and conditions BD provided to Mr E, under the heading Tax and Legal Advice it said:
You have sole responsibility for the management of your tax and legal affairs including all
applicable tax filings and payments and for complying with all applicable laws and
regulations. We have not provided and will not provide you with tax or legal advice and we
recommend that you obtain your own independent tax and legal advice tailored to your
individual circumstances.
And
Unless otherwise specifically agreed with you, in writing and in the context of our Financial
Planning Service, we have not provided and will not provide you with tax advice. However
even in the context of our Financial Planning Service, Brewin Dolphin is not a tax adviser
and we recommend that you obtain your own independent tax advice tailored to your
individual circumstances.And
The tax treatment of investment products can be complex, and the level, rate and basis of
taxation may alter during the term of any product. You should therefore obtain professional
tax advice appropriate to your own circumstances before investing.
It is fair to say that there is occasion where financial advisers will assist in establishing a tax 
position. In this case, Mr E had an issue with his tax coding and BD requested three years 
coding notices and P60s to establish the correct position. But this, in my view, does not 
extend to personal taxation advice.
Based on the information I have seen Im not persuaded that BD led Mr E to believe it would 
be providing him with tax advice, in fact it explicitly said otherwise and as such I dont agree 
that it is responsible for Mr E not claiming pension income tax relief on his pension 
contributions.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman