DRN-3921463
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained because when they closed their savings account, Santander UK 
plc didnt pay them the full amount which they believed was in the account.
What happened
On 7 March 2022, Mr M went to a Santander branch to close Mr and Mrs Ms joint  savings 
account. It was an account which theyd opened some years earlier as an Abbey National 
account, and it had a passbook. The branch closed the account and gave Mr M a cheque for 
£2,942.41.
Later, Mr and Mrs M realised that the balance wasnt as high as they thought it should have 
been. Theyd been paying in £20 a month for a number of years, so theyd calculated that it 
should have been £3,950.67.  They went back to the branch to complain. 
The pages from the passbook provided to us show:
- monthly £20 standing order credits up to a balance of £915.40 on 12 July 2006;
- a cheque withdrawal of £800 on 9 August 2006;
- the next entry is dated 12 September 2011, and says entries consolidated. It shows 
a £1,314.05 credit in the Receipts column, giving a balance of £1,429.45;
- further monthly £20 standing order credits from 10 October 2011 to March 2012. The 
balance on 12 March 2012 was £1550.67;
- the next entry is dated 16 August 2020, and says entries consolidated. It shows a 
£1,009.88 credit in the Receipts column, giving a balance of £2,560.55;
- further monthly £20 standing order credits from August 2020 to February 2022;
- closure of the account on 7 March 2022, with a closure figure of £2,942.41.
The available evidence also shows mini-statements from Santander, showing a balance on 
10 January 2013 of £751.46, with subsequent regular £20 standing order credits and 
occasional very small amounts of interest.
Santander didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. In its final response letter, its complaints 
investigator said shed requested statements going back to 2012. She said shed done this 
because over the years, your passbook had misprinted at some point and did not show all 
transactions between 12 March 2012 and 16 August 2020. The passbook had only been 
updated with a consolidation figure, which Santander said was due to the number of years 
when it hadnt been updated.
Santanders letter went on to say that between these dates, Mr and Mrs M had believed 
there had been a withdrawal on the account, but they wanted confirmation as they couldnt 
remember doing the transaction and it wasnt stated on the passbook. So it said that Mr and 
Mrs M had wanted this clarified. Santander explained that it didnt have to hold any customer 
data for more than six years. So it hadnt been able to provide Mr and Mrs M with the 
information theyd wanted.
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied and complained to this service. They told our investigator 
that theyd understood theyd only been able to make withdrawals from the account by using 
the passbook. They said theyd made a withdrawal in 2008, but hadnt made any others. 
They said that financially theyd been doing well during the period when there was no 
evidence in the passbook, so they wouldnt have needed to make withdrawals. They werent 
satisfied because Santander hadnt been able to provide any evidence that a withdrawal had 
been made. They explained that they were at least £1008.26 out of pocket. Theyd also had 
to make multiple visits to the branch, which was 40 minutes journey each way, to try to 
resolve the issue. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. He said that as the disputed 
transaction period was between 12 March 2012 and 10 January 2013, this was the period 
when detailed statements were needed, but neither side had this information. He explained 
that Santander didnt have to retain records indefinitely, and it also hadnt kept the terms and 
conditions for the legacy Abbey National account. So he couldnt tell whether the passbook 
was needed for withdrawals.
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied. They said that if the roles were reversed and it had been 
about a loan, it would have been incumbent on them to prove theyd made the repayments. 
They believe that it should be down to Santander to evidence the withdrawals, as theyd 
evidenced credits theyd made every month, as well as providing the passbook which didnt 
show any withdrawals during the relevant period. They said they shouldnt be penalised due 
to the incomplete information held by Santander, which was a bank so it was a reasonable 
assumption theyd have sufficient records.
Mr and Mrs M asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked the records provided to me, and the undocumented period is from 12 March 
2012, when the passbook shows a balance of £1550.67, to 10 January 2013, when theres a 
mini-statement showing a balance of £751.46. 
Mr and Mrs M have provided bank statements showing they paid Santander £20 monthly 
during the period. But the unknown factor is whether or not there were withdrawals during 
that time. The bank statements which Mr and Mrs M have provided dont show any credits, 
either electronic or by cheque, which potentially might have come from their Santander 
account during the undocumented period. But thats not conclusive because any withdrawals 
might have been paid in cash, credited to another account, or paid to a third party by 
cheque. 
Theres a conflict of evidence about what happened:
- Mr and Mrs M have said that they wouldnt have needed to withdraw money between 
12 March 2012 and 10 January 2013, because they were financially doing well at that 
time. 
- Santander has said that when Mr and Mrs M got in touch about the dispute, Mr and 
Mrs M had believed there had been a withdrawal on the account, but they wanted 
confirmation as they couldnt remember doing the transaction and it wasnt stated on 
the passbook. It said that Mr and Mrs M had wanted this clarified.
Ive considered what Santanders obligations were here. Banks arent required to keep 
financial information indefinitely. And data protection guidance issued by the Information 
Commissioners Office says data should be kept for no longer than necessary for the task performed. This means that its for a business to weigh up the purpose of keeping 
information when setting retention policies. Six years has become the industry-wide norm. 
I recognise that its frustrating for Mr and Mrs M that there is an entry in the passbook which 
just says entries consolidated. But the undocumented gap between 12 March 2012 and 10 
January 2013 is much more than six years ago, and Santander doesnt have to have still 
kept the records for that time. 
Mr and Mrs M have said that they couldnt make a withdrawal without the passbook. So, as 
there was no withdrawal shown in the book, they believe there was no withdrawal. I can 
understand why theyve said this. But as the data protection regulations meant that 
Santander didnt keep customer-specific information for longer than six years, Santander 
also didnt keep the relevant terms and conditions. This service does know that old 
passbooks often said that the book must be provided when withdrawing. But we also know 
that banks and building societies didnt insist on this in practice, provided there was suitable 
evidence of identification. So, regardless of what the terms and conditions might have said, it 
was often possible for customers to have withdrawn money without the passbook.
I do understand why Mr and Mrs M are unhappy because Santander hasnt been able to 
provide any evidence that they made a withdrawal between 12 March 2012 and 10 January 
2013. But there isnt any legal obligation on Santander to evidence the withdrawal here. Its 
obligations are only to show it searched, and that from whatever those searches show, it had 
taken a reasonable approach. And because it was so long ago, its not unreasonable that 
they wouldnt have records, because they arent required to keep records for that length of 
time. So its the fact that the issue wasnt discovered for so long, which is the problem here.
I cant say for certain whether or not there was a withdrawal from Mr and Mrs Ms account 
between 12 March 2012 and 10 January 2013. But this services role is to decide whether or 
not a bank did anything wrong. In view of the fact that the disputed time is so long ago, 
Santander doesnt have to provide records. I therefore dont find that it acted unreasonably 
when it refused to credit Mr and Mrs M with the disputed amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman