DRN-3366815
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc declined his application for a credit account 
having been informed prior to applying that he had a 100% chance of success.
What happened
Mr B applied for a new credit account with Capital One. Before submitting the application,  
Mr Bs application information was pre-vetted by Capital One, who informed Mr B that he 
would have a 100% chance of his application being successful, if he decided to go ahead 
with it. Mr B did then formally submit his application to Capital One, but his application was 
then declined.  Mr B then resubmitted his application to Capital One, which was declined 
again. Mr B wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Capital One looked at Mr Bs complaint. They noted that the information Mr B had submitted 
in his formal application differed slightly from the information that Mr B had submitted for pre-
application vetting, and that this had led to his formal application being declined. However, 
because Mr B had formally applied twice, Capital One agreed to remove the credit search 
theyd conducted for the second application from Mr Bs credit file.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Capital 
One had acted unfairly towards Mr B by declining his account. However, while liaising with 
our investigator, Capital One agreed to remove the first credit search from Mr Bs credit file 
also, so that his credit file would be as if hed never applied. So, our investigator 
recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr Bs favour on that limited basis, to 
formalise the offer made by Capital One.
Mr B remained dissatisfied and felt that Capital One should honour their declaration that he 
would be approved for a new account as well as compensate him for the inconvenience hed 
incurred. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate that Mr B may disagree, Capital One have been able to demonstrate to 
my satisfaction that some of the address history information that Mr B provided in his formal 
application was different to the information provided at the pre-application vetting stage.
Its also notable from the screenshots that Mr B has provided to this service, which include 
the statement made by Capital One that Mr B would have a 100% chance of success if he 
chose to proceed with the application, that Capital One based their declaration of application 
success percentage on eligibility check details and credit history, the results of which would 
be dependent, in part, on the address history information provided by the applicant.
It therefore seems reasonable to me, having been supplied different address history 
information at the point of the formal application than had been supplied previously, that the 
application success percentage given by Capital One on the basis of the previous 
information supplied might not reasonably apply.
It's also notable from the same screenshots that Capital One confirm that they still needed to 
do fraud and identity checks, which Capital One confirmed meant there was still a small 
chance that the application might be declined, despite the 100% chance of success given.
Ultimately, given the circumstances of this complaint, it doesnt seem unfair or unreasonable 
to me that Capital One declined Mr Bs application here, although I can appreciate how that 
would have been frustrating for Mr B, given the 100% chance of success hed been told by 
Capital One that his application had.
Capital One have already removed the credit search for the second (duplicate) application 
that Mr B made from his credit file and have now offered to remove the first credit search 
from Mr Bs credit file as well. This would have the result of leaving Mr Bs credit file in the 
position it would have been in had he never applied for the Capital One account, and as 
such I feel that this offer does represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
Im aware that Mr B feels that Capital One should honour the statement that he had a 100% 
application success chance and open an account for him. But in much the same way as a 
consumer can choose which credit providers to apply to, a credit provider is also entitled to 
choose which consumers it wishes to offer an account to. In this instance, Capital One have 
chosen not to offer an account to Mr B, and Im satisfied that that is a choice that Capital 
One are fairly entitled to make.
Im also aware that Mr B feels that Capital One should compensate him for the trouble and 
upset this matter has caused. But while I appreciate that Mr B has been inconvenienced 
here, I feel that the differences in address history information detailed above mean that this 
inconvenience cant be fairly considered as being unjustified or as being purely accountable 
to the actions of Capital One, and as such I dont feel that any form of compensation is 
merited in this instance.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr B was wanting, but it follows that while I will 
be upholding this complaint in Mr Bs favour, I will only be doing so on the limited basis that 
Capital One must remove the information from Mr Bs credit file relating to the first 
application, as they have already offered to do.
I hope that Mr B will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have. 
Putting things right
Capital One must remove the information from Mr Bs credit file in relation to the first account 
application, as they have offered to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 Paul Cooper
Ombudsman