DRN-4353020
The complaint
Miss B complains Zurich Assurance Ltd mis-sold her a Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (FSAVC) plan in 1991 and gave her unsuitable advice in 1999 to increase her 
contributions to that plan. 
Miss B is represented here by a claims management company (CMC), but for ease Ill only 
refer to Miss B.
What happened
Miss B was a member of the Teachers Pension Scheme (TPS). In 1991 she met with a 
business Zurich later became responsible for and took out an FSAVC plan in order to top up 
her pension benefits. Miss B met again with Zurich in late 1998 and early 1999, following 
which she increased her contributions to her FSAVC plan. 
In 2002, Miss B stopped contributing to her FSAVC plan as she says she moved area and 
job, which reduced her income. Miss B says she didnt contribute to anything else instead. 
Miss Bs FSAVC plan remains invested. 
In 2022, Miss B complained to Zurich that its 1991 advice to buy an FSAVC plan was 
unsuitable as it didnt discuss the in-house alternatives with her.
Zurich thought Miss B had complained too late under the time limit rules, because it was 
more than six years after the 1991 advice, and more than three years after it had given her 
information in 1998 and 1999 that ought reasonably to have made her aware she had cause 
for complaint about the 1991 advice. 
Specifically, Zurich said the booklet it gave Miss B in 1998 explained the differences 
between FSAVCs and in-house arrangements which normally meant in-house AVCs were a 
better choice, and discussed added years. As a tied adviser, Zurich could only advise on the 
options available with Zurich, but the booklet directed Miss B to contact her employer for 
more information about its in-house options so Miss B could consider what was best for her. 
Zurich said it gave Miss B time to do this, and that Zurichs record of its following meeting 
with Miss B showed it had explained to Miss B the advantages of joining one of her 
employers in-house arrangements and that she was eligible for in-house AVCs. But Miss B 
had decided to increase her FSAVC contributions for the flexibility to stop and start her 
contributions.
Miss B came to our Service. She thought shed complained in time, as she became aware 
there was a problem with Zurichs advice when she saw her CMCs advert in May 2022. She 
said that if Zurich had given her enough information in 1998/1999 to realise there was a 
problem with the 1991 advice, she wouldnt have increased her FSAVC contributions. Zurich 
hadnt told her in 1991 or in 1998/1999 about the cost comparison implications between in-
house AVCs and FSAVCs. If it had, she wouldnt have chosen an FSAVC plan given it 
offered less value for money.
Our Investigator thought Miss B had complained about the 1991 advice too late, as it was 
more than six years since the advice was given, and more than three years since she ought 
reasonably to have been aware she had cause for complaint about it.
Miss B disagreed. In summary, she thought neither the 1991 nor the 1999 advice complied 
with the regulators requirements for tied advisers. That if the 1991 advice had been 
compliant, shed have chosen added years and not an FSAVC plan, so likely wouldnt have 
met Zurich in 1998/1999. And the 1999 advice wasnt compliant, so it shouldnt be used to 
time bar her complaint about the 1991 advice. Because providing a booklet wasnt enough, 
Zurich also needed to have discussed the particular impact of charges with Miss B. And the 
booklet was misleading in any case, as it suggested the lower charges for an in-house AVC 
could even out over the plans life to leave no overall difference, and it should have used 
stronger wording than charges may be lower. Miss B thought none of the information Zurich 
gave her in 1998/1999 ought reasonably to have made her aware she had cause for 
complaint about the 1991 advice. Miss B pointed to other decisions made by Ombudsmen at 
our Service in separate complaints which she thought supported her complaint. 
But our Investigator still thought Mis Bs complaint had been brought too late. As agreement 
couldnt be reached, it came to me for a decision. After considering the evidence and 
arguments, I told both parties I thought Miss Bs complaint about Zurichs 1991 advice to buy 
an FSAVC plan had been brought too late and that her complaint about its 1999 advice to 
increase her FSAVC plan contributions shouldnt be upheld.
Miss B disagreed. In summary, she said my conclusions were inconsistent with decisions 
made by other Ombudsmen at our Service, and provided details of a decision made by 
another Ombudsman at our Service in a separate complaint, which she thought further 
supported her complaint. That the 1999 advice endorsed the 1991 advice, so it was unclear 
why it should have made Miss B aware the 1991 advice wasnt suitable. That Id not 
addressed the quality of the booklet provided to Miss B in 1998 as part of the 1999 advice 
process. And the evidence didnt show Zurich had discussed with Miss B, in 1998/1999, the 
difference in charges between AVC and FSAVC plans, which the regulator thought was the 
most important difference. So Zurichs 1999 advice hadnt followed the regulators 
requirements. Therefore, it was unfair to conclude that a complaint about the 1991 advice 
had been brought too late on the basis the 1999 advice was compliant. 
After further consideration of all the available evidence and arguments, I contacted both 
parties to explain why I now thought Miss Bs complaint had been brought in time and that if 
Miss B had been given all the relevant information during the 1991 advice, she would more 
likely than not have opted for the in-house AVC option, as opposed to purchasing an FSAVC 
plan or added years. I said that Zurich should put things right by undertaking a redress 
calculation and compensating Miss B if this showed a financial loss.
Miss B agreed. But Zurich didnt. It said it hadnt considered the merits of the complaint or 
commented on what Id said about that because it still thought the complaint about the 1991 
advice was out of time. Zurich thought the 1998 booklet contained enough information to 
have reasonably made Miss B aware she had cause for complaint, particularly when taken 
with the further specific discussions she had with Zurich. In particular, Zurich said: 
The booklet did say charges over the life of the plan may even out and other factors 
needed to be considered, but this was true and did not weaken the booklets message 
that in-house AVC charges may be lower. 
It wasnt the purpose of the booklet to give an opinion about what was best for Miss B - 
that was for the adviser during their discussions with Miss B based on information she 
provided about her circumstances. And the booklet had said Miss B should contact her employer for details of the in-house options so she could compare the benefits and 
options available to her. 
The booklet should have put Miss B on the path to discovery that she had cause for 
complaint, given it said her employer may have agreed enhanced terms in the form of 
reduced charges and might possibly match her contributions, highlighting this normally 
makes the in-house AVC scheme the better choice, and set out the benefits and 
possibility of buying added years. And Miss B didnt need to have had certain knowledge 
of a specific cause for complaint, just the sense that something wasnt right.
Neither Zurich or our Service were present for the discussions between Miss B and the 
Zurich adviser, so we must consider the available evidence and whats reasonable in 
light of it. 
There was no requirement for customers to sign fact finds or recommendation reports, 
and the credibility of these wasnt reduced here because Miss B hadnt signed them. 
Miss B would have provided the information they contained during discussions with the 
adviser. And its unlikely comparisons werent discussed, particularly since the booklet 
Zurich gave Miss B a few months earlier said she should contact her employer for 
information about the in-house options alternatives. 
Im now in a position to make my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I acknowledge Miss B has sought to support her complaint by pointing to decisions 
made by other Ombudsmen at our Service in separate complaints, and is concerned about 
our Services consistency in what she sees to be similar or identical complaints. But it 
remains the case that our Services approach is to consider the particular circumstances of 
each individual complaint. And sometimes, the evidence in each complaint is very finely 
balanced, or perhaps incomplete so that conclusions must be reached on the balance of 
probabilities. That said, I wont comment on decisions made by other Ombudsmen at our 
Service, because my role here is to consider Miss Bs particular complaint. 
Having done so, Im satisfied Miss Bs complaint has been brought within the time limits. The 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules our Service must follow are set out by the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority. DISP 2.8.2 says that, unless a business consents, our Service 
cannot consider a complaint if its been referred to us,
more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 
2.8.2 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances
Miss Bs complaint is that Zurich mis-sold her an FSAVC plan in 1991 and then gave 
her unsuitable advice in 1999 to increase her contributions to that plan. Miss B referred 
this complaint to our Service in 2023, which is clearly more than six years later. So, Miss Bs complaint is out of time under the six-year part of the rule. Therefore, I need to 
consider the three-year part of the rule. 
Miss B says she first became aware there might be a problem with Zurichs 1991 and 1999 
advice when she saw her CMCs advert in May 2022. But under the three-year part of the 
rule, Im required not only to consider when Miss B did become aware she had cause for 
complaint, but also when she ought reasonably to have been aware she had cause for 
complaint. 
Zurich says it gave Miss B sufficient information in 1998/1999 to make her aware of the 
differences between the FSAVC and her employers in-house options, so she should have 
complained within three years of this at the latest. 
So in order to consider whether Miss Bs complaint has been brought in time, I need to 
consider whether Miss B was properly informed in 1998/1999 about the important 
differences between the in-house options and the FSAVC. 
Its not disputed that Zurich was a tied adviser here. The rules for tied advisers selling 
FSAVCs were introduced 1988 by the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory 
Organisation (LAUTRO). These said advisers should maintain high standards of integrity 
and fair dealing, exercise due skill, care and diligence in providing any services, and 
generally take proper account of the interests of investors. And that firms should have regard 
to the consumer's financial position generally and to any rights they may have under an 
occupational scheme, and give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with 
the representative in question. So, this means tied advisers like Zurich should have known 
that in-house AVC options would likely be available to consumers like Miss B.
The rules also said that in addition to highlighting the benefits of the FSAVC, advisers should 
mention the generic benefits of the in-house options. These generic benefits would include:
Money purchase AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the FSAVC.
The availability of Added years in the OPS.
That the consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer paid 
into either in-house option.
When the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) took over from LAUTRO it adopted these 
rules. And in 1996 it issued a policy statement, Regulatory Update 20, which gave guidance 
on the procedures it expected tied advisers to follow when selling FSAVCs. The PIA said 
that before selling an FSAVC tied advisers should:
Draw the consumers attention to the in-house AVC options.
Discuss the differences between the FSAVC plan and the in-house options in generic 
terms, including the likely lower charges of in-house AVC scheme.
Direct the consumer to her employer or occupational pension scheme trustees for 
further information about the in-house AVC option.
In particular, it said Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under 
FSAVCs, reflecting economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to 
administration expenses by the employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this 
is likely to exert the greatest impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the
client.
Ive considered the Topping up your Occupational Pension Scheme Benefits booklet that 
Zurichs records show it provided to Miss B on 4 November 1998. Miss B doesnt dispute receiving this booklet, but says it wasnt worded clearly or strongly enough. For its part, 
Zurich says the booklet should have put Miss B on the path to discovery that she had cause 
for complaint, given the booklet said her employer may have agreed enhanced terms in the 
form of reduced charges and might possibly match her contributions, highlighted this 
normally makes the in-house AVC scheme the better choice, and set out the benefits and 
possibility of buying added years.
I can see the booklet explained Miss B could top up her TPS pension benefits in different 
ways, by choosing between an in-house AVC set up by her employer alongside her 
occupational scheme, and an FSAVC. And it went on to compare these two in general 
terms. It said that for in-house AVCs:
Your employer may have agreed enhanced terms with the insurance company, in 
the form of reduced charges. This may mean that the charges levied on contributions 
to an in-house AVC are lower than those charged under the [FSAVC], particularly in 
the early years, although over the life of the plan these may even out. The booklet 
went on to say the charges shouldnt be looked at in isolation and other factors 
should be considered, including availability of advice, employer matching 
contributions and contributions flexibility.
A few employers are prepared to pay additional contributions (which may be subject 
to a maximum amount) specifically for members who are contributing to an in-house 
AVC scheme. This normally makes the in-house AVC scheme the better choice.
An in-house scheme might offer the option of buying added years of pensionable 
service. 
So, Im satisfied the booklet drew Miss Bs attention to the in-house AVC and added years 
options. And I agree with Zurich that the booklet also said Miss B should contact her 
employer for details of the in-house options so she could compare the benefits of all her 
options. But I dont agree with Zurich that the booklet should have put Miss B on the path to 
discovery that she had cause for complaint. 
I say this because in my view, the booklet didnt make clear that the in-house AVC scheme 
likely had lower charges. Instead, the charges section of the booklet says they may be 
lower, and this may is further undermined and minimised by the booklet going on to say the 
charges may even out over the life of the plan and werent the only factor to consider. I note 
the later and separate employer contributions section of the booklet says A few employers 
are prepared to pay additional contributions (which may be subject to a maximum amount) 
specifically for members who are contributing to an in-house AVC scheme. This normally 
makes the in-house AVC scheme the better choice. But it doesnt say whether this applied 
to Miss B, and it suggests that in-house AVCs normally being a better choice is to do with 
employer contributions rather than charges, as it makes no mention of charges. Given all 
this, Im not persuaded the booklet made clear the likely lower charges of in-house AVC 
scheme.
As Zurich agrees, the booklet isnt personal to Miss B or her circumstances. Nor does it set 
out an opinion on what option would be most suitable for Miss B. And Im mindful that Zurich 
had already given Miss B advice in 1991 that resulted in her buying an FSAVC plan. Bearing 
all this in mind, Im not satisfied the 1998 booklet ought reasonably to have made Miss B 
aware that in-house AVC options might have been more suitable for her in her particular 
circumstances.
But Zurich argues that as well as providing Miss B with a booklet, it also discussed the 
difference in in-house AVC and FSAVC charges with her in 1999  it says its unlikely it didnt discuss these differences with Miss B, particularly since the booklet it gave her a few 
months earlier said she should contact her employer for information about the in-house 
options alternatives. Miss B says there isnt evidence of such a discussion in 1998/1999, so 
Zurich hadnt followed the regulators requirements. 
As Zurich highlights, neither Zurich or our Service were present in the discussions between 
its adviser and Miss B. So, Ive considered the documentary evidence available. Having 
done so, Im not persuaded theres enough evidence for me to conclude Zurich had a 
discussion with Miss B in 1998/1999 about the differences between in-house AVCs and 
FSAVCs, including charges. 
For the 1999 advice, Zurich completed its initial fact find document on 15 October 1998 and 
completed its fact find update on 15 February 1999. The initial fact find records details of 
Miss Bs employers scheme, including that Miss B had the option to buy added years. But 
this was captured at the very beginning of the 1999 advice process and while this was 
probably information obtained from Miss B, it doesnt contain anything to suggest that Zurich 
had a discussion with Miss B that covered the differences between the FSAVC plan and the 
in-house options, including the likely lower charges of in-house AVC scheme. 
On 22 February 1999, Zurich completed a recommendations document. In a section titled 
notes or calculations, this recorded that [Miss B] is eligable [sic] to contribute to her 
company scheme in the form of AVCs. and went on to list the benefits to her, which 
included Charges are low due to being in a group scheme, Clients can buy back yrs [sic], 
and Early retirement can be taken, but AVCs income must be taken at the same time as 
main scheme benefits. 
Im not persuaded this is sufficient evidence that Zurich more likely than not discussed these 
points with Miss B. The title of the section these points were recorded in suggests it was a 
section intended more for the adviser to refer to than a record of a discussion with Miss B. 
And theres no reference anywhere in the document to a discussion being had with Miss B 
that covered these points. In addition, while Zurich says it wasnt required to ask Miss B to 
sign the recommendations document, its still the case that the document doesnt contain 
any note by Zurich or any signature or declaration by Miss B to say shed read the 
recommendations. And Zurich hasnt provided any evidence to show it provided Miss B with 
a copy of the recommendations document. 
Taking all this into account, Im not persuaded theres enough evidence for me to be 
satisfied that during its 1999 advice process, Zurich had a discussion with Miss B that 
covered the differences between in-house AVCs and FSAVCs, including the charges. 
Further, I dont think there was anything in the 1999 advice process that ought reasonably to 
have made Miss B aware she had cause for complaint about either the 1991 or the 1999 
advice. 
Ive thought about whether there is anything else that ought reasonably to have made Miss B 
aware she had cause for complaint about either the 1991 or the 1999 advice.
Following concerns about mis-selling, the regulator told businesses to carry out a review of
some FSAVC plans sold between 29 April 1988 and 15 August 1999. The main aim was to
review the plans of consumers who might have lost matching contributions or subsidies that
their employer would have paid had an AVC plan been taken out instead. The review was
mostly concluded by 2004. Ive seen nothing in the evidence provided by Zurich and Miss B 
to suggest Miss B was invited to have her FSAVC plan reviewed. Therefore, I think its 
unlikely a review was carried out. So I dont think that would have acted as a trigger point for 
starting the three year time limit for this complaint.In addition, Ive seen nothing to suggest Miss B was an experienced investor or 
knowledgeable about pensions and AVCs. Or that she was provided with any other 
information that ought reasonably to have made her aware she had cause for complaint 
about the 1991 or the 1999 advice. Miss B says she discovered there might be a problem 
with Zurichs advice when she saw her CMCs advert in May 2022. Taking everything into 
account, Im satisfied this was the first thing that ought reasonably to have made Miss B 
aware there might be a problem with the advice shed received from Zurich. Miss B then 
raised her complaint with Zurich in 2022, less than three years later.
Therefore, Im satisfied Miss B has brought this complaint in time under the three-year part 
of the rule. Given this, Ive considered the merits of Miss Bs complaint about Zurichs 
advice. And having done so, Im satisfied this is a complaint that should be upheld. 
As Ive already explained, Im not satisfied that Zurichs 1999 advice process included a 
discussion with Miss B that covered the differences between in-house AVCs and FSAVCs, 
including the charges. 
And Im not satisfied Zurich had such a discussion during its 1991 advice either. Because 
theres nothing in the evidence provided to our Service by Zurich in relation to the 1991 
advice that suggests Zurich had a discussion with Miss B that covered the differences 
between in-house AVCs and FSAVCs, including the charges. So I cant reasonably conclude 
from this that Zurich had the discussions with Miss B that the regulator required it to. 
Therefore, Ive thought about whether Miss B would most likely have opted for one of the 
in-house options rather than the FSAVC, if Zurich had complied with the regulators 
requirements in 1991. And I think that if the advice given to Miss B in 1991 had been 
compliant and shed been provided with information about the likely differences in charges 
and expenses between the FSAVC and an in-house AVC, then I think its more likely than 
not she wouldnt have opted to take out an FSAVC. 
I say that because, given what I know of Miss Bs circumstances at the time of the 1991 
advice, an in-house AVC seems to have been a better option for her. Her sole objective was 
recorded as planning for retirement. And in-house AVCs usually had lower charges than 
FSAVCs, meaning more of Miss Bs contribution would have been invested into her pension 
fund for retirement. So I dont think Miss B would have opted for an FSAVC that would cost 
more and meant less of her contributions went towards her pension fund. 
Some occupational pension schemes offered an alternative to AVCs known as added years,
where additional contributions could be used to purchase additional years of service in the
occupational scheme. And Miss B says she would have opted for added years rather than 
FSAVCs or AVCs, if Zurichs 1991 advice had complied with the regulators requirements. 
Ive considered this, but I dont agree. 
That because the evidence provided to me by Zurich shows that at the time of the 1991 
advice, Miss B was age 29 and had two years service in the TPS, and that she wanted to 
retire at age 55. I dont think the amount Miss B was contributing to her FSAVC plan would 
have been enough to buy the added years shed need to reach the maximum number of 
years service in the TPS. Further, the cost of buying added years is determined by 
government actuaries, and is based on a set of conservative assumptions. This means 
added years would have seemed expensive when compared with the potential benefits 
available from money purchase options like the FSAVC or AVC. And at the time of the sale, 
it wouldve been expected that the AVC scheme would produce greater benefits on 
retirement as investment returns were expected to be high. So I think its more likely Miss B 
wouldve opted to invest in the in-house AVC option, as opposed to buying added years.For these reasons, I think the 1991 advice was unsuitable and Im satisfied that if Miss B 
been given all the relevant information during the 1991 advice, she would more likely than 
not have opted for the in-house AVC option, as opposed to purchasing an FSAVC plan or 
added years. It therefore follows that there wouldnt have been an FSAVC plan for her to 
increase her contributions to in 1999.
Putting things right
Zurich should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Zurich should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Miss Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be 
tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Zurich Assurance Ltd to 
pay Miss B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Ailsa WiltshireOmbudsman