DRN-2220066
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC wont refund a transaction he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
In March 2018, Mr F used his Metro Bank account card details to make an online payment to 
a third-party merchant which he says hed authorised. But in March 2019 the retailer debited 
a further payment from Mr Fs account. Mr F says he didnt provide authority for this payment 
to be debited from his account, so he disputed it with Metro Bank.
Metro Bank cancelled Mr Fs card and raised a dispute; it also refunded the transaction to 
Mr Fs account. But after receiving evidence from the merchant, Metro Bank said that 
sufficient evidence was provided to show Mr F authorised the transaction. It wrote to Mr F 
informing him that the dispute was unsuccessful, that it would be re-debiting the amount and 
warned him regarding making false claims.
Mr F was unhappy with the response, so he wrote a letter of complaint to Metro Bank which 
he says he delivered by hand to their headquarters on 14 May 2019. But as hed not 
received a response, he came to our service to look into the matter further.
An Investigator contacted Metro Bank informing them of Mr Fs complaint, but Metro Bank 
denied any knowledge of a complaint or receiving the letter Mr F said hed delivered to them. 
It looked into the compliant and decided that it hadnt made an error. It said that the evidence 
provided by the retailer showed that Mr F had authorised the transaction, and as it 
processed the payment in line with its terms and conditions, it didnt think it had made any 
error.
Our Investigator reviewed the evidence provided by both parties and concluded that Metro 
Bank hadnt made an error in the circumstances. She said:
When Mr F authorised the initial transaction to the retailer, hed ticked a box to 
acknowledge that the product hed paid for was auto-renewed.
Hed also agreed to the retailers terms and conditions which specified their auto-
renewal policy and retention of card payment information.
Mr F had received correspondence from the merchant upon his initial purchase and 
prior to the second payment being taken that the account would auto-renew. And he 
was therefore aware this process was being undertaken.
The Investigator concluded that for the above reasons she thought Mr F had authorised the 
payment. She additionally looked into the chargeback process initiated by Metro Bank and 
concluded that this was handled in line with the relevant rules. She didnt recommend that 
Metro Bank provide a refund for the transaction.
Mr F disagreed with the Investigators assessment. He provided an in-depth response to the 
assessment outlining a number of reasons why he didnt agree. He:
Maintained that the transaction was unauthorised. He denied any authorisation for a 
continuous payment authority (CPA) to be set up using his card details.
Cast doubt on the veracity of the evidence the merchant had supplied in defence of 
the claim stating that its processes may have changed since 2018.
Quoted guidance and case study examples from numerous sourcesincluding our 
servicethat supported his assertion that the CPA wasnt authorised.
Disputed the amount taken on the second unauthorised transaction as it was 
considerably higher than the previous transaction hed made.
As Mr F didnt agree with the Investigators view, the matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Mr F has provided a number of reasons why he disagrees with the Investigators 
assessment, I wont be responding to these points individually. Instead, Ive looked at the 
overall circumstances of this complaint.
In basic terms, The Payment Services Regulations 2017 set out that Metro Bank can hold 
Mr F liable for a disputed transaction if he authorised that transaction or didnt take 
reasonable steps to secure his account. 
It is clear from reading the documents Mr F has provided that he feels quite strongly about 
this point and has vehemently defended his position that hed not authorised the transaction. 
Whilst I know it may be disappointing, I cant agree that he was unaware of the auto-renewal 
agreement or impending payment that was to be taken from his account prior to it being 
debited. 
Understandably, Mr F cant recall the exact details of his initial payment to the merchant, nor 
the information that was displayed on the website at the time of making it. But I must take 
into consideration the evidence Metro Bank has provided our service as this is the 
information theyve relied upon to assess the claim.
The merchant has supplied screenshots to Metro Banks and our service of the payment 
page which Mr F likely saw at the time of carrying out the transaction. Prior to proceeding 
with the payment, the customer is required to tick a box. This box acknowledges that the 
customer has read and agreed to the terms of service and also says:
I understand theservices are provided on a subscription base with auto-renewal 
settings that can be managed
Whilst I acknowledge that the terms of service arent regularly read by customers, I have 
also reviewed the contents of the terms and am satisfied that it has both set out the retention 
of card information and its auto-renewal policy for the subscription.
Mr F has contested that we rely upon evidence that may have changed between the time 
hed made the transaction and when it was provided to both Metro Bank and our service. But 
without evidence to the contrary, I cant dismiss this submission. Even if I were to doubt this 
specific piece of evidence, there are other factors here that persuade me that Mr F was 
aware hed agreed to auto-renew the subscription had it not been cancelled; and therefore, 
likely authorised the transaction.Both Mr F and the merchant have provided the same correspondence sent by the merchant 
via email to Mr F. This includes:
The initial invoice outlining the authorised transaction and payment
A reminder that Mr Fs services were due to expire and that an attempt to renew 
them automatically would take place
On the initial invoice, it is written that services are set to renew automatically. And in the 
reminder sent prior to the second payment it specifically highlights that the services are due 
to expire and that theyd be renewed automatically on 4 March 2019. It also highlights the 
amount to be charged and encourages the customer to get in touch to receive a discount on 
their renewal if done manually.
Considering the above, I find it unlikely that Mr F didnt know hed signed up to a subscription 
service which would auto-renew on an annual basis. And had he received the above 
correspondence, no longer required the services and wished to cancel his subscription, he 
was merely required to contact the merchant and cancel the renewal before it took place or 
revoke his authority through his bank before the payment being carried out. As there was no 
attempt to do this, I cant say that Metro made an error in allowing the payment to be 
debited.
Overall, whilst I cannot be certain, the evidence persuades me that it is more likely than not 
that Mr F authorised the transaction. I therefore dont find it reasonable to hold Metro Bank 
liable in the circumstances.
In addition to considering authorisation, Ive looked at how Metro Bank handled the dispute 
overall.
Upon Mr F making Metro Bank aware of the unauthorised transaction it immediately 
cancelled his debit card, raised a chargeback dispute with the merchant and refunded the 
transaction whilst it investigated. When it had received the evidence, it decided that it 
couldnt defend the claim and sent notice of its intention to re-debit the funds. Considering 
my findings above, I dont feel that Metro Bank were unreasonable in their actions. It acted 
within the rules of the chargeback process and within its own account terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive provided above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman