DRN-2956002
The complaint
Mr S complains about U K Insurance Limiteds handling of claims made under his motor 
insurance policy following a collision. All references to UKI include its agents.  
What happened
In March 2017, Mr S was involved in a collision whilst driving a hire car. UKI made contact 
with Mr S upon receiving a claim from the hire car company for the damage. He felt the other 
driver was at fault for the collision, and explained his version of events to UKI.
Mr S was made aware that the other driver disputed his version of events in April 2017. 
That summer, UKI paid the hire car companys repair invoice. The repairs cost less than 
Mr Ss excess, which hed already paid to the hire car company. It was agreed the excess 
would be returned to Mr S, who would then reimburse UKI for the cost of the repairs. 
The other drivers insurer briefly became unresponsive and UKI discussed the option for 
Mr S to issue legal proceedings. Mr S confirmed he was happy to proceed with this and UKI 
instructed solicitors for that purpose in August 2017. Theyve since indicated Mr S expressed 
a desire to include his injuries in the claim. 
Around this time, UKI became aware that the other driver and their passenger would also be 
making claims against Mr S. It instructed a separate firm of solicitors to defend these claims. 
Mr S became agitated and said hed struggle to pay increased premiums while liability was 
in dispute. He was also studying for exams at the same time. UKI said there wasnt much it 
could do unless liability was established in Mr Ss favour. Mr S asked for regular updates, 
but UKI said the solicitors were best placed to update him. 
In 2018, UKI received the claims from the other driver and their passenger. The solicitors 
defending these claims later settled them without prejudice (meaning the act of settlement 
couldnt be treated as an admission of liability) by paying 50% of their value. The solicitors 
instructed to pursue a claim against the other driver have since suggested that UKI told them 
to close their files at around the same time. 
Mr S briefly appointed his own solicitor to look into pursuing things further, but they felt that a 
claim was unlikely to succeed given that the other driver disputed liability and UKI had paid 
their claim. Mr S complained to UKI. He felt it handled the overall claim poorly, and had 
prejudiced his legal position. He said it shouldnt have settled the claims against him. 
In 2019, UKI agreed with some of Mr Ss concerns. It felt its solicitors should have allowed 
the claims against him to go to court, and that a judge might have found in Mr Ss favour. 
It offered to pay Mr S £200 compensation, allowed his no claims discount and treated the 
collision as non-fault. They said no refund of premiums would arise from this as, due to an 
error, the collision hadnt been taken into account in the calculation of Mr Ss renewal offers.
UKI also re-engaged the solicitors it originally asked to pursue a claim on Mr Ss behalf, and 
asked them to review his personal injury claim again. But the solicitors felt Mr S didnt have a 
reasonable prospect of proving his injuries were caused by the collision and no further action 
was taken. In March 2020, Mr S ran out of time to claim for his injuries. Mr Ss passengers 
made claims against UKI (as Mr Ss insurer) for their injuries in 2019. Mr S remains unhappy 
with UKIs response to his complaint. In summary, hes said: 
UKI shouldnt have settled the claims made against him;
His solicitor told him that in settling the claims, UKI accepted that he was liable for 
the collision, which meant any subsequent legal action was unlikely to succeed;
He hasnt been able to recover amounts relating to his injuries. He has clear medical 
evidence to show he suffered injuries as a result of the collision, so UKI should have 
pursued the personal injury claim before time ran out;
The amounts it paid out to the other driver and their passenger were excessive;
UKI caused him significant distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time. 
Our investigator thought UKI should pay Mr S £400 compensation to resolve the matter, but 
neither party thought this was fair. On 19 July 2021, I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Should UKI have settled the claims against Mr S?
In November 2019, UKI said, based on the damage caused to both vehicles, the case
could have gone either in your favour or the liability decision may have been apportioned
equally between both drivers I believe this case should have been allowed to go to trial...
As such, its clear UKI agrees the claims should have been allowed to go to court, and that
this might have led to a more favourable outcome for Mr S.
How should the collision be recorded?
UKI has, in essence, given Mr S the benefit of the doubt. Its decided to treat the collision as
non-fault and allow his no claims discount, to match what would have happened if the claims
had gone to court, liability had been established in Mr Ss favour and UKI had recovered its
costs from another party.
The amounts paid out to the other driver and their passenger have inevitably been recorded
on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). The amounts recorded on CUE need to
reflect what UKI paid out overall, so I wont direct it to change them. But if UKI recovered its
costs from the other driver the CUE record would likely have shown a zero balance.
The copy of the CUE record Ive seen is showing as bonus disallowed. Given UKI is treating
the collision as non-fault, and has allowed Mr Ss no claims discount, I think that should be
reflected externally. I intend to direct it to mark the claim as bonus allowed on CUE.
If Mr S can provide evidence to show the information recorded on CUE has affected his
premiums with a new insurer, Ill consider this point further. This information will need to
come from Mr Ss new insurer, confirm that he disclosed the collision and explain what
difference, if any, the information recorded on CUE made to his premiums.
Is Mr S due a refund of premiums now UKI is treating the collision as non-fault?
UKI has provided a statement from an underwriter confirming that, at each renewal, it
increased Mr Ss no claims discount entitlement and didnt include any claims, fault or
otherwise, in his driving history (for pricing purposes). This was seemingly an error, but Im
satisfied it means no refund of premiums is due now its treating the collision as non-fault.Did UKIs decision to settle the claims against Mr S affect his legal position?
When the solicitor presented Mr Ss claim to the other drivers insurer, the insurer said UKI
had settled the claims presented by our driver and passenger. The solicitor said this proved
UKI had agreed Mr S was at fault for the collision. They told Mr S that:
your insurers have accepted fault for the incident and have confirmed this to us.
This clarifies that your insurers agree with the third party insurers version of events.
In the circumstances I believe your claim would be difficult to settle and your chances
of success are low.
But all the letter from the other drivers insurer shows is that the claims were settled, which
isnt in dispute. UKI has since confirmed with the solicitors it appointed to defend the claims
that they were settled without prejudice. Thats consistent with the letter the solicitors sent to
Mr S, which said, this matter was strictly settled without prejudice to liability.
UKIs notes from that period also show that it received an update from the solicitors that the
litigation file had been settled without prejudice. Overall, Im satisfied, on balance, that UKI
didnt accept liability for the collision on Mr Ss behalf or prejudice his legal position.
Did UKI cause Mr S to lose the opportunity to bring legal action against the other driver?
Im conscious that, originally, UKI seems to have been prepared to submit a claim on Mr Ss
behalf for the cost of repairing the damage to his car and for his injuries. Given the claims
made against Mr S were settled at 50% of their value, and on a without prejudice basis, it
isnt clear to me why the solicitors pursuing Mr Ss claim were told to close their files.
As I alluded to in the background, the repairs to the hire car cost less than Mr Ss excess.
There looks to have been an agreement that the hire car company would return the excess
to Mr S, who would in turn reimburse UKI for the cost of the repairs. But UKI has told us it
never recovered these costs from Mr S. UKI hasnt said its still pursuing Mr S for its costs,
which I think negates the fact he hasnt recovered them from the other driver.
In regard to Mr Ss injuries, UKI presented an opinion from a solicitor which said that this
aspect of the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success because Mr S wouldnt be
able to establish a causal link between the collision and his injuries. Taken on face value, the
opinion would suggest this aspect of the claim probably wouldnt have been successful if it
had been issued in 2018 as originally planned either.
Generally speaking though, I think its fair that an insurer can only rely on a legal opinion if
its properly written and reasoned, and from a suitably qualified lawyer. By properly written
and reasoned, I mean it should set out the relevant issues of fact or law in dispute, and the
lawyers commentary about whether, taking account of the available evidence, any relevant
legal principles, legislation and caselaw, there are reasonable prospects of success.
The opinion UKI has presented doesnt show the authors job title, and I havent been able to
find any information about them online to assess whether theyre suitably qualified.
It doesnt refer to any medical evidence, and relies on a four point criteria which must be met
for Mr S to establish causation. One of the points is that the total invoice to the vehicle needs
to be £500 or more, which isnt the case here. But its unclear where this criteria comes from,
or whether its a test that a court would apply. From a laypersons perspective, it seems an
arbitrary test and not one thats determinative on the issue of causation. Im also wary that
UKI has paid amounts to other parties for injuries sustained in the same collision.UKI relied on this opinion to justify not providing funding for Mr S to pursue a claim for his
injuries. Im not satisfied its been able to show the opinion is properly written and reasoned,
or from a suitably qualified lawyer. Our investigator made two requests for further information
about the opinion and its author, but no meaningful information was provided in response.
Ive also kept in mind that the opinion given by Mr Ss solicitor seems to be of limited value
either given its based on the conclusion that UKI accepted liability on Mr Ss behalf.
I intend to direct UKI to seek a new legal opinion, that meets the criteria Ive set out above,
on whether Mr Ss personal injury claim would have had reasonable prospects of success if
it had been pursued in 2018 as planned. In doing so, UKI should give Mr S a chance to send
any evidence he currently holds to the lawyer to consider, including the medical evidence he
referred to in his submissions. If the claim would have had reasonable prospects of success,
as the limitation period has now expired, UKI will need to seek the lawyers opinion on what
settlement theyd have advised Mr S to accept. UKI should then pay that amount to Mr S.
If it wouldnt have had reasonable prospects of success UKI need take no further action.
How much compensation should be paid for Mr Ss non-financial losses?
Mr S has said UKIs handling of the claim affected his social, home, university and daily life.
He says he still finds it unbearable to discuss the case, particularly because it took his focus
away from his studies. He says, due to UKIs mistakes, he was put on anti-depressants.
I can only compensate Mr S for the extent to which UKI made things worse for him than they
otherwise might have been. Thats relevant here because the collision itself, Mr Ss injuries,
the subsequent insurance claim (however well it was handled) and the legal action would
always have caused some level of distress and inconvenience. And claims where both
parties dispute liability generally take some time to resolve.
In the main, it appears that UKI was in reasonably regular contact with Mr S until it passed
the various claims to solicitors. Its clear that Mr S made UKI aware that the ongoing claim
was causing him a lot of worry. It noted during one call that he was extremely worked up as
he is a student / suffering from financial hardship for example.
Some of Mr Ss concerns around this time though were with the claim being recorded as
fault while the liability dispute was ongoing. But that will always be the case while liability is
in dispute (and seemingly didnt affect Mr Ss premiums in this case). While Mr S requested
the matter be treated with urgency, there was a limit to what UKI could do to facilitate that.
Once both parties had instructed solicitors, it had to wait for the litigation to take its course.
It was disappointing that, after Mr S spent time liaising with the solicitors, alongside his
studies, the claims against him were settled at the last minute. This seems to have led to his
own claim being closed. UKI now says the claims should have been allowed to go to court.
If liability had been established in his favour, UKI would likely have recovered its costs,
which would have led to the claim being treated as non-fault earlier and a zero balance
being recorded on CUE. It might also have influenced who Mr Ss passengers decided to
pursue their claims against. So, I think there was some loss of opportunity here, and Ive
factored that into the compensation amount.
That said, we dont know whether liability would have been established in Mr Ss favour.
The lawyer may conclude Mr S wouldnt have been able to establish the other driver was
fully liable for the accident (and therefore his injuries) in court, or that liability would have
been apportioned equally between the two drivers. In that event, settling the claims against
Mr S at 50% of their value may turn out to have been economical, and Mr S will still have
benefitted from UKIs decision to treat the collision as non-fault.It took a reasonable level of effort from Mr S to get some of these issues resolved. It was
only once he made a complaint, and after a number of phone calls, that UKI acknowledged
its errors and took action to correct them, including re-instructing solicitors to review Mr Ss
personal injury claim a year after theyd been told to close their files. Mr S had instructed his
own solicitors in that time, although he hasnt mentioned incurring any fees.
Its also clear Mr S wasnt in the best of health after the collision. Hes submitted evidence to
us that he was attending medical appointments with neurologists and physiotherapists, and
was absent from work due to tension headaches, which are exacerbated by stress. He was
taking a number of medications to relieve pain, and an anti-depressant. Ive asked that our
investigator forward this evidence to UKI with this decision.
Whilst Mr S has said he was advised to take anti-depressants as a result of UKIs actions,
I havent seen any evidence which makes that link. But I appreciate that UKIs handling of
the claim would likely have exacerbated Mr Ss distress, given he was in physical discomfort
and being treated for depression. Overall, I think the amount our investigator suggested
(£400 less any amounts already paid) is reasonable in the circumstances.
I intend to uphold this complaint and direct U K Insurance Limited to:
Change the CUE record to bonus allowed to reflect how its treating the claim;
Seek a properly written and reasoned legal opinion from a suitably qualified lawyer
on whether Mr Ss personal injury claim would have had reasonable prospects of
success if it had been pursued in 2018 as planned;
In the event that it would have done, seek the lawyers opinion on what settlement
theyd have advised Mr S to accept and pay that amount to Mr S;
Pay Mr S £400 compensation (less any amounts already paid).
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr S didnt provide a response, though the provisional decision was sent to the email 
address hes corresponded with us from in the past, so Im satisfied he likely received it. 
UKI referred to a phone call that had taken place between it and someone from the firm of 
solicitors it appointed to review the personal injury claim. They told UKI the defendants had 
disputed causation. And having reviewed the repair documentation they thought it unlikely 
theyd be able to overcome this point. They said the defendant was also of the impression 
UKI (or the solicitors appointed to defend the claims against Mr S) had previously made a full 
admission of liability. Overall, they didnt think there were reasonable prospects of success.
UKI felt it therefore handled this aspect of the claim fairly, having relied on the above advice. 
It noted Mr Ss solicitor also said the claim had low prospects of success, and were clearly 
still of this view, as theyd since pursued claims against UKI from Mr Ss passengers. It said 
it would have protected Mr Ss position if hed provided a favourable legal opinion earlier, 
and felt that Mr S should pay for any further legal opinions if it was felt one was required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI still hasnt presented any evidence to show the people it spoke to at the firm of solicitors 
were suitably qualified (with experience in the relevant area of law) to reach an opinion on 
whether Mr Ss personal injury claim had reasonable prospects of success.The call notes from the period its referred to only mention a first name (which isnt the same 
name as the person who produced the written legal opinion). And the written legal opinion 
doesnt bear the authors job title. I havent been able to find information about them online, 
including using the Solicitors Register. 
The note of the call UKI has referred to is very brief. But I can see the person they spoke to 
raised concerns about the lack of damage to Mr Ss vehicle. This is addressed in the written 
legal opinion, which said Mr S needed to satisfy the following criteria:
1). Total parts to the vehicle needs to be £50.00 or more 
2). Total invoice to the vehicle needs to be £500.00 or more
3). Vehicle needs to have visible damage
4). Medical records need to be reviewed
There remains no context as to where this test comes from. The person who wrote the 
opinion hasnt expressed a view that Mr Ss injuries werent commensurate with the level of 
damage to his vehicle. Theyve simply applied the above criteria and said they can only get 
medical records, if all three of the aspects relating to the vehicle have been met. As a result 
of this, I am not able to progress your claim. And Im still consciousl that UKI paid amounts 
to the other driver and their passenger for injuries sustained in the same collision. 
My findings acknowledged that Mr S had also sought his own legal opinion. I thought it was 
of limited value as it was based on UKI having admitted fault for the collision, which I hadnt 
seen any evidence of. And I was mindful that UKI subsequently instructed its panel solicitors 
to review things further. So, it had an opportunity to establish for itself whether the personal 
injury claim had prospects of success, and to pursue it if it did, before limitation had expired. 
Furthermore, UKI now seems to acknowledge it hadnt seen anything to categorically prove 
the claims against Mr S were settled without prejudice. And its said this formed part of the 
discussion about whether he had prospects of bringing a successful personal injury claim. 
As such, there does seem to be some doubt as to whether the manner in which the claims 
against Mr S were settled prejudiced his legal position. And this further justifies why UKI 
should seek an opinion on whether the personal injury claim would have had prospects of 
success if it had been pursued as planned, and the claims against him hadnt been settled.
By the time limitation expired, Mr S had tried to arrange his own legal representation, but the 
solicitor he spoke to wasnt willing to take the claim on due to the claims against Mr S having 
been settled. Hed persuaded UKI to review the matter, but it relied on a legal opinion to say 
the claim didnt have sufficient prospects of success. For the reasons given above, I dont 
think it did so fairly (even in the absence of a conflicting legal opinion). Hed also raised a 
complaint about that, and referred it to our service. 
As such, I think he took reasonable steps to mitigate his losses, and that it would therefore 
be fair for UKI to pay Mr S any amounts hes now lost the opportunity to claim (if its found 
that the claim would have had prospects of success if it had been pursued in time).
Mr S hasnt produced evidence that the information recorded on CUE affected his premiums 
with any new insurers, or let us know that he requires more time to produce evidence of this. 
So, I make no award in this regard. Mr S may however wish to notify any new insurers of the 
outcome of this complaint.  
My final decision
I uphold this claim and direct U K Insurance Limited to:Change the CUE record to bonus allowed to reflect how its treating the claim;
Seek a properly written and reasoned legal opinion from a suitably qualified lawyer
on whether Mr Ss personal injury claim would have had reasonable prospects of
success if it had been pursued in 2018 (and the claims against him werent settled);
In the event that it would have done, seek the lawyers opinion on what settlement
theyd have advised Mr S to accept and pay that amount to Mr S;
Pay Mr S £400 compensation (less any amounts for compensation already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman