DRN-3660509
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy Equifax Limited wont remove a third-party search from his credit file.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr T says he was unfortunately, subjected to identity theft. As a result, Mr
T noticed a number of soft searches on his credit file from third party companies that he had
no dealings with nor a relationship with. Mr T says he raised his concerns with Equifax, as
well as two other Credit Reference Agencys (CRAs), when he became aware of the
searches on his credit file. Upon investigation, Mr T says the two other CRAs removed the
searches from his credit file. However, Mr T says Equifax wont remove one of the searches
that hes disputing, from his Equifax credit file.
Mr T wants Equifax to remove this search and to give him compensation for the distress and
inconvenience caused to him.
Equifax say they looked into Mr Ts concerns and noticed there were four searches on his
credit file from third party companies that Mr T had no dealings with. So, Equifax raised a
dispute with each of these companies to get the searches removed  Equifax say the third-
party companies are responsible for the data on Mr Ts credit file and that information can
only be removed with their authority. As a result, three of the searches were removed from
Mr Ts credit file. But the fourth search, which was for a company Ill refer to as B, wasnt.
Equifax explained this was because B said that due to their policy on security and protection
of their customers data, B required Mr T to contact them directly. So, because Equifax didnt
have Bs authority to remove the search, they were unable to remove it.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ts concerns. In summary, he said he was satisfied Equifax
acted fairly in relation to the fourth search that has remained on Mr Ts Equifax credit file. He
explained that Equifax raised a query with B (as they were responsible for putting the search
on Mr Ts credit file) and as Equifax didnt have Bs authority to remove the search, our
Investigator didnt think Equifax needed to do anything more for Mr T.
Mr T disagreed. He reiterated the searches were done as a result of identity theft. And that
Equifax would have received communication from one of the other CRAs, who removed the
disputed searches from Mr Ts credit file, that he was a victim of identity fraud. Mr T also said
Equifax have a duty to ensure data is accurate and processed fairly. Mr T remained of the
opinion that Equifax should remove Bs soft search from his credit file. So, the complaint has
been passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision setting out the below:
CRAs, like Equifax, store and report information gathered from public sources and financial 
businesses about individuals and their accounts. Having looked at Equifaxs website, they 
explain that they dont own the data on a customers credit file. And if a customer feels 
theres incorrect information on their Equifax credit report, Equifax are responsible for 
managing the dispute with the data supplier on the customers behalf. Equifax also explain 
the data supplier is responsible for amending information and that theyre unable to change 
the data themselves without the data suppliers permission.
In this case, it seems that the searches appearing on Mr Ts credit file shouldnt be there as
Mr T had no dealings whatsoever with the third parties (the data suppliers) who were
responsible for carrying out these searches. As it stands, theres one search outstanding on
Mr Ts credit file with Equifax  which is Bs search.
I can understand this is frustrating for Mr T and Im sorry to read that hes been a victim of
identity theft, I can imagine this was worrying for him. Having looked at the information
provided by Equifax; I can see they raised a query with B on behalf of Mr T about the search
B carried out. B responded and said they required Mr T to get in touch with them directly.
Mr T has said B asked him to register an account with them in order to raise a query about
the search. Understandably, Mr T didnt want to do this as he has no use in using the
services B provide. Mr T has also provided us with evidence of an email response he got
from B where they said to him that hes emailed them from an email address that doesnt
match any accounts on their system. So, they were unable to help him further. Given Mr T
has said this search was done as a result of identity theft, I dont find it surprising B couldnt
locate Mr T on their system using the email address he emailed them from  Mr T has been
consistent in saying hes never had any dealings with B. However, Bs email does give Mr T
the option of either contacting them via their live chat or to call them. But Mr T hasnt
confirmed whether hes tried to contact B through either one of those channels.
I note Mr T has said Equifax have a duty to ensure the data on his credit file is accurate and
processed fairly. I understand Mr Ts point but having thought about Equifaxs role as
explained on their website, alongside Equifaxs actions, I dont think Equifax have acted
unfairly here. I say this because I think Equifax can only ensure the data is correct by
contacting the party responsible for adding this data  which in this case was B. And Im
satisfied Equifax have taken the right steps in raising a dispute about the incorrect
information on Mr Ts credit file. The fact that B are requiring Mr T to contact them himself,
isnt something I can hold Equifax responsible for.
Additionally, I note Mr T has raised some concerns about Equifaxs duties under data
protections laws. However, these concerns will need to be raised with the Information
Commissioners Office as its not something that falls under the remit of our service.
Mr T has provided us with information showing two other CRAs have removed the searches
he disputed from the credit reports he holds with them. Mr T has also provided us with an
email from one of the CRAs saying theyll inform Equifax that Mr T has been a victim of
fraud. I can understand Mr Ts frustration  especially as he says two other CRAs have
removed the searches. But I can only look at the actions of Equifax in this decision and I
wont be commenting on what the other CRAs have done. Additionally, I cant fairly require
Equifax to remove Bs search just because the other CRAs may have done so.
Mr T has said thankfully he wasnt applying for any lending, so the search hasnt had a
detrimental impact on him. Im pleased to hear this. However, Mr T says due to his work,
hes subject to regular credit checks and Bs search could place him in a detrimental
position. Mr T has told us the search B done was a soft search. And having looked at
Equifaxs definition of a soft search they explain its not visible to any third parties and its
often used by credit eligibility tools to check how likely a customer is to have their application
accepted without performing a hard search. Nonetheless, even if Bs search may not be
visible to other third parties, I can understand the worry this is causing Mr T. However, I can
only hold Equifax responsible for the worry caused to Mr T if I find theyve done something
wrong. And as explained above, I dont think they have.Mr T has also complained about the delays in Equifax responding to his concerns as well as
their system not making it easy to draw links to additional queries or disputes raised with
them.
Having looked through Equifaxs internal notes, I can see Mr T advised them of the searches
on 3 March 2022. Equifax then responded to Mr T on 7 March 2022  setting out the four
searches they identified and also that theyve raised disputes with the third parties on Mr Ts
behalf. Equifax then contacted Mr T on 23 March 2022 letting him know that one of the third
parties confirmed theyd remove the search from Mr Ts credit file. Mr T replied on the same
day and questioned whether this would be the case for all the searches. Equifax responded
the following day confirming it was just one of the third parties and asked Mr T to confirm the
searches that needed to be disputed again. Mr T responded the same day providing
confirmation of all the searches he wanted to be removed.
Equifax replied confirming the disputes they raised, alongside the relevant reference
numbers for the disputes. Mr T emailed Equifax on 25 March 2022 and said another CRA
had removed the searches and he was disappointed with Equifaxs handling of things, so he
said he wanted to raise a complaint. On 31 March 2022, Mr T contacted Equifax again to say
he hadnt had acknowledgement of his complaint but I can see an acknowledgement email
was sent to Mr T on 29 March 2022  so Im not sure why Mr T may not have received this
email. On 5 April 2022, Mr T contacted Equifax again and said they failed to acknowledge
his complaint and gave them five days to respond. Equifax then contacted Mr T on 20 May
2022 to say they werent in a position to make a decision at that time and provided Mr T with
referral rights to our service. Equifaxs final response letter was then sent to Mr T on 23 May
2022 and in this they apologised for the delay in responding to Mr T.
So, all in all, I think the only delay I can see in responding to Mr Ts complaint is when
Equifax took over a month to respond to Mr Ts email of 31 March 2022. And its not entirely
clear why there was this delay. So, I can appreciate the frustration the delay would have
caused Mr T. However, I can see in Equifaxs final response letter they apologised for the
delay in providing Mr T with a response to his complaint. In the circumstances, I wont be
asking Equifax to do anything more.
In relation to the point Mr T has raised about Equifaxs systems not making it easy to provide
a single view of disputes, while I can appreciate Mr Ts concern, its not something I can 
comment on as its not my role to direct Equifax to change the way they operate nor their
systems.
Equifax responded and didnt provide me with any further comments or information to 
consider.
Mr T responded and said that Equifax are reporting fraudulent information. Mr T says hes 
provided evidence that he was subjected to identity theft, yet Equifax still wont remove the 
search carried out by B from his credit file. Mr T also says Equifax say if the data theyve 
received turns out to be wrong, then theyll update their records accordingly. Additionally, Mr 
T said the live chat function on Bs website requires him to register an account with them, 
which he doesnt have. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive thought carefully about what Mr T has said and I note Mr T has reiterated he was 
subjected to identity theft. I want to make clear to Mr T that Im not doubting what hes told 
us about being a victim of identity theft.
I also note Mr T feels Equifax are reporting fraudulent information in relation to Bs search. In 
my role, Im required to look at what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, while taking 
the law into consideration. Equifax raised a dispute with B which is what they required to and 
said they would do. Because B havent agreed to remove the search and have instead, 
asked Mr T to contact them directly, I dont think I can fairly ask Equifax to remove the 
search if they dont have Bs authority to do so. 
Mr T has said Bs search is incorrect, false and misleading so Equifax should be able to 
remove it on that basis. I appreciate Mr Ts point, but its not Equifaxs role to arbitrate on 
whether the data is accurate or not  thats an issue between Mr T and B. If Equifax receive 
information from B about the search being incorrect, Id then expect Equifax to act on that 
information and take the necessary steps.
Taking all of the circumstances into consideration, I dont think Equifax have acted unfairly. 
As explained, B dont appear to have given their authority to Equifax for the search to be 
removed.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman