DRN-4298106
Complaint
Mr H has complained about loans Fair for You Enterprise CIC (trading as Fair For You) 
provided to him. He says the loans were unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided to 
him in the first place.
Background
Fair For You provided Mr H with five point of sale loans in total. In initially provided Mr H with 
a first loan for £263.99, in December 2015, to purchase household goods. This loan was due 
to be repaid in 17 monthly instalments of around £20. 
In April 2016, Mr H was provided with a second loan for £355 in order to facilitate the 
purchase of a fridge freezer. This loan had a 24-month term with 24 monthly repayments of 
£20.84. 
In December 2016, Mr H was provided with a third loan for £359.99 in order to facilitate the 
purchase of a laptop. This loan was due to be repaid in 17 monthly instalments of around 
£26.    
Mr H was also provided with fourth and fifth loans by Fair For You. But Ive already 
separately explained to the parties why I will not be looking into the complaint about those 
loans. And I make no comment about them in this decision.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr H and Fair For You had told us. And he thought 
that Fair For You hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. So he didnt 
recommend that Mr Hs complaint be upheld. Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman 
to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Fair For You needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Fair For You needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr H could afford to repay these loans before they were provided to him. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Fair For You provided Mr H with three loans for £263.99, £355 and £355.99 in                
November 2015, April 2016 and December 2016 respectively. These first and third loans 
were due to be repaid in 17 monthly instalments and the second loan in 24 monthly 
instalments. The maximum amount Mr H had to pay at any one time was around £66 a 
month.
Fair For You says it agreed to Mr Hs applications after he provided details of his monthly 
income, which was verified by payslips and some information on his expenditure. It says it 
cross-checked this against information on a credit searches it carried out. And all of this 
information showed Mr H could comfortably afford to make the repayments he was 
committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr H has said the loans were unaffordable because he was already 
struggling at the time.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr H and Fair For You have said. 
Fair For You hasnt been able to provide us with the information it gathered at the time of 
loan 1. But given the amount of time that has passed since Mr H was provided with this loan 
this is not surprising. And Im not drawing any adverse conclusions as a result. 
Fair For You has been able to provide copies of the credit searches it carried out at the time 
Mr H applied for loans 2 and 3 and it has provided copies of bank statements that it obtained 
from Mr H at the time of the application for loan 3.
Its fair to say that the information provided does appear to indicate that Mr H had had 
previous difficulties with credit  in the form of defaults and at least one county court 
judgment. And he does appear to have been a regular user of home-collected credit too. 
Given loan 1 was taken a few months before loans 2 and 3, Im also prepared to accept that 
Mr H was in a similar position at that stage. That said, while I accept that Mr H had had 
previous difficulties with credit, I dont think that this in itself means that Fair For You 
shouldnt have lent.  
Indeed, I have to keep in mind that the monthly payments Mr H had to make even when he 
had the combined payments for three agreements running at the same time, was low. Im 
also mindful that the bank statements Ive seen, from around the time, also appear to show 
that once Mr Hs committed expenditure was deducted from his income, he had sufficient 
funds left over to be able to make the payments to these loans. 
I accept that Mr Hs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Fair For You obtained. But the key here is that its 
only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did 
something wrong. Given the circumstances here, in particular what Mr Hs bank statements 
from around the time show, Im satisfied that Fair For You was reasonably entitled to lend to 
Mr H. 
For the sake of completeness, Id also point out that Mr H was using the funds from these 
loans to purchase, what his correspondence to Fair For You at the time at least suggests he 
considered to be, essential items. And these loans enabled him to purchase these items at interest rates much lower than the interest rates he appears to have been borrowing from 
home-collected credit providers at too.
As this is the case, I dont think that Fair For You did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to  Mr H - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Fair For You treated Mr H unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr H. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman