DRN-3626182
The complaint
Mr C complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has unfairly declined a 
claim under his legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to RSA, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr C was in dispute with his neighbour over what appears to be boundary and land 
ownership issues. A settlement agreement was reached in September 2012, part of which 
was an agreement that both partys surveyors would agree a map showing the exact areas 
to be transferred and then the deeds would be registered. 
Mr C says his solicitor at the time wrote to his neighbours solicitor asking for some 
clarification on one or two anomalies in respect to the agreement, but they failed to respond 
despite chasers being sent. Sometime later, it seems that some draft deeds and maps were 
produced but werent agreed and went unsigned. 
The matter seemed to have gone dormant, until this year when the neighbour sold his 
house. Mr C was contacted by the neighbours solicitor, who wanted to get the outstanding 
matters resolved to enable the sale to go through. 
By this time, Mr C had a new solicitor who wanted to review matters before anything was 
agreed. But the neighbours solicitor said if the sale was compromised by missing the agreed 
completion date, they would reserve the right to pursue Mr C for 10% of the purchase price 
as compensation. Due to the large sums this involved, Mr C signed the new deeds.
Mr C has asked RSA to reimburse him for the legal costs he incurred for his solicitor to liaise 
with the neighbours solicitor and agree the new deeds. In addition, he asked RSA to cover a 
claim to dispute some clauses in the deeds and have them removed.
RSA declined the claim because the policy didnt cover disputes that first happened or 
started before Mr C took out the insurance. It considered this dispute to have started back in 
2012 and Mr C didnt take out this insurance policy until 2015. In addition, it said the policy 
wouldnt cover any legal costs incurred before a claim had been accepted so it wouldnt 
reimburse the costs incurred so far. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this decision, so he raised a complaint. And when it wasnt upheld, 
he brought it to our service. But our investigator was satisfied RSA had declined the claim in 
accordance with the policy terms and that the decision was fair. As Mr C didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs legal expenses insurance policy say the cause of the 
action must happenduring the insurance period. It goes on to exclude any event, dispute 
or cause of action that first happened or started before you took out this insurance. 
Mr C considers this to be a new dispute which didnt arise until this year. But RSA has 
concluded that the dispute and cause of action started back in 2012. Based on what Ive 
seen, Im inclined to agree with RSA. 
I say this because the reason Mr Cs neighbours made contact this year was in relation to 
outstanding matters from the settlement agreed in 2012. It wasnt in relation to a new dispute 
or something that Mr C hadnt been aware of prior to this. I appreciate new issues have 
arisen, but Im satisfied they are very much connected to a series of events which started 
before the policy did.
In Mr Cs letter to our service in June 2022, he says his solicitor felt the reason why the 
neighbours solicitor was making threats to speed up the agreement was because they had 
dropped the ball on this case in that they had omitted to provide the information [his] 
solicitor at the time had asked for. I believe this further indicates that the issues they were 
dealing with dated back to 2012 and were not something entirely new or unforeseen.
Ive also thought about whether Mr C is entitled to have his legal costs reimbursed. But Im 
not persuaded that he is. I say this because the claim isnt covered under the policy for the 
reasons Ive explained above. And even if it was, the costs were incurred with his solicitor 
prior to his claim being accepted, which the policy specifically excludes. 
So whilst I appreciate why he felt pressured to take action immediately  and that RSA 
hadnt yet responded to his claim  I cant fairly ask it to reimburse these legal costs in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman