DRN-2750783
The complaint
Ms J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt close her credit card account as 
shed asked. 
What happened
In May 2020, Ms J called HSBC to close her credit card account. She paid in £4,500.48 to 
do that. Interest of £70.64 was then passed, so the account didnt close. She called HSBC 
again in July 2020 and they said the account would then close. In August 2020 she emailed 
HSBC as the account hadnt closed  the balance was £1.28 credit. HSBC said the account 
would close after paying the balance to charity. In October 2020 there was a debit to the 
account of £52.93 and in November 2020 there was a debit of £14.89. HSBC considered 
these to be fraudulent and refunded them.  
Ms J complained  she asked HSBC to close her account, and they didnt. And as a result, 
there were two payments made from the account  which had nothing to do with her.
HSBC said in their final response in July 2020 that interest had been debited to her account 
on the day she paid off the balance. So, this had stopped the closure. They refunded the 
interest and said her account would then close at that time. They said any entries on her 
credit file would be removed. In August 2020, they said that adjustments would be made to 
the balance and the account would be closed.
Ms J brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said that when Ms J first contacted HSBC 
to close the account, she wasnt advised there was interest to be paid. So  the account 
wasnt closed. And then in subsequent contacts, HSBC didnt do what they said theyd do 
and close the account. This led to the two fraudulent transactions in October 2020 and 
November 2020. So  she said HSBC hadnt acted reasonably and said they should pay 
£250 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.
HSBC didnt agree. They said theyd closed the account in their system. But when the 
transactions were authorised in October 2020 and November 2020  these were made on a 
valid card and so were agreed by HSBC. Theyd assumed they were fraudulent and 
refunded the money. They asked that an ombudsman review Ms Js complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ms J clearly wanted to close her credit card account and paid £4500.48 into it to do so. Ive 
listened to the call she made to HSBC in May 2020 and her instructions are clear  please 
close my account.  She asked also can you confirm there are no charges on the account (to 
pay)?. She asked again (so there) are no more interest payments?. The call handler said 
no  we have closed your account and he went on to say the closure letter would be sent 
to Ms J, and she should destroy any cards she held  she said she would. So  HSBC told 
Ms J that her account was closed. Its unfortunate that the call handler didnt check there 
was interest still to pay  if he had, what subsequently happened might have been avoided.
Ms J then had to contact HSBC again in July 2020 and August 2020  and both times was 
told they would sort it out. But they didnt  as Ive seen that statements were sent to Ms J 
every month until December 2020. The account remained open with small credit balances as 
HSBC didnt properly deal with the closure.  HSBC have argued that the account was closed 
in their system and therefore, it was closed  but I cant agree with what they say  simply 
because statements were being sent out to Ms J. Whatever systems arrangements were 
being put in place by HSBC in the background, as far as Ms J was concerned, her account 
remained open  and she was entitled to think that.
HSBC have also said that the transactions in October 2020 and November 2020 must have 
been made using a valid card. In other words  Miss Js old card had been used. We will 
never know what happened  but HSBC did treat them as fraudulent and refunded the 
amounts. 
Ms J has had to contact HSBC at least three times to close her account. But unfortunately, 
HSBC didnt do what they said theyd do each time. And shes received statements for at 
least seven months after her request  two of which showed transactions she had nothing to 
do with her. The statements for November 2020 and December 2020 show overdue 
payments  so her credit file may also have been marked. So  I agree that this caused Ms J 
a lot of distress and inconvenience. And so, HSBC should pay her compensation of £250. 
Theyve said her credit file wouldnt be affected  but for completeness, Id ask them to 
ensure that this has been done.
Putting things right
Ms J has been caused a good degree of distress and inconvenience and HSBC should 
therefore pay compensation of £250. Ms J should get in touch with them to arrange how it 
should be paid. And HSBC must ensure that any adverse entries on Ms Js credit file are 
deleted.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint.  HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) must:
Pay Ms J £250 for distress and inconvenience.
Remove any adverse entries relating to what happened from Ms Js credit file 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman