DRN-4111457
The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Financial Services Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr C applied for a Creation credit card in 2011. The account was closed in 2016.
Mr C complained to Creation. He said it had lent irresponsibly to him.
Our investigator said that although the account opening and credit limit increases happened 
more than 6 years ago, this service could look into the complaint because Mr C had brought 
his complaint within 3 years of becoming aware that Creation might have done something 
wrong by providing the card and increasing the credit limit.
Our investigator went on to uphold the complaint. She wasnt able to determine whether 
Creation had carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before opening the account 
but said that the information available about Mr Cs levels of borrowing at the time showed 
that he wasnt likely to be able to sustainably repay the borrowing.
Creation didnt agree. It said the information showed that Mr C had sufficient disposable 
income to afford the lending.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here.
Creation hasnt been able to provide this service with any information about the affordability 
checks carried out at the time of the application or at the time of the credit limit increase. 
This is because it doesnt retain information for more than 6 years.
Because of this, it isnt possible for me to determine whether creation carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks before it approved the credit. Creation has suggested that it 
wouldve carried out an affordability calculation at the point of application and again at the 
point of increasing the credit limit, and said that any credit granted wouldve been assessed 
as affordable for Mr C.
Ive thought about what Creation wouldve been likely to discover had it completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks. Mr C has provided statements for the bank accounts 
he held at the time to show his income and expenditure. Hes also provided some credit card 
statements to show the extent of his other credit commitments.
Ive reviewed the bank statements. I can see that Mr C was overdrawn on the accounts as at 
June 2011 and that the total overdraft debt was around £6436.
Ive also reviewed Mr Cs credit card statements. These show that he was making minimum 
payments on all of his accounts. The total credit card debt was around £15,355.00.
Based on what Ive seen, Mr C had almost £22,000 of existing credit commitments at the 
time of the application.
Mr Cs bank statements show that he was earning around £2825 per month. Looking at his 
essential expenditure  around £1700  and his consumer credit repayments  around £900 
 this left very little to go towards Mr Cs living expenses. I dont think it was likely that Mr C 
wouldve been able to sustainably repay the borrowing.
Therefore, Im of the view that the credit was unaffordable for Mr C. 
Putting things right
Because I dont think that Creation should have provided the credit card, I dont think its fair 
that Mr C should pay interest and charges on the credit hes had.
Creation should:
(1) Refund all the interest and charges Mr C has paid on the card.
(2) If the borrowing is still in place, reduce the outstanding capital balance by the amount 
at(1) above.
(3) If after (2) above there is an outstanding capital balance, Creation should make sure that 
this balance is not subject to any further interest or charges. However, if after (2) above 
there is a credit balance on the account, this amount should be refunded to Mr C together 
with 8% simple interest *
(4) Creation should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation 
to the account
*HMRC require Creation to deduct tax from this interest. If tax is deducted Creation must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Creation Financial Service Limited must take 
the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman