DRN-2631316
The complaint
Ms C complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited mis-sold her a level term assurance 
plan.
What happened
Ms C took out a life insurance plan with Standard Life in 2000. The plan was originally held 
jointly with her former husband, Mr C. The plan provided cover of £30,000 over 12 years. 
Ms C became the sole policy holder in 2002.
In 2007, Ms C increased the amount of life cover for both her and Mr C to £60,000. She 
recalls that she asked for the plan to be over the longest possible term. It was extended until 
2020.
In early 2020, Standard Life wrote to Ms C to tell her that her plan was coming to an end. 
When Ms C contacted Standard Life about this, she found out that she could have extended 
it by a further 15 years, meaning she could have had cover in place until 2035. But by this 
time, it was too late as the option to extend it had expired. Standard Life said that, in 2013, it 
had stopped allowing sum assured increases or term extensions for customers who dont 
have the extension option on their plan. Although Ms C did originally have the extension 
option on her plan, this had expired in 2005.
Ms C complained. She said that the policy hadnt been fully explained to her when it was 
sold, and she shouldnt have to guess any deadlines or options on the policy. Ms C said that 
all aspects of the policy shouldve been transparent, and she felt that important factors had 
been hidden from her. She said shed never heard of 2013 as a date she could make 
changes to her life insurance by. 
Standard Life said that there was no evidence that the plan had been mis-sold, or Ms C had 
been badly advised. It said that it had matched Ms Cs requirements when it was 
recommended in 2000. It said that Ms C had contacted it directly in 2007 to make alterations 
to the plan and amended documentation had been issued to her. Standard Life said that, up 
until 2013, it allowed alternations to the term or level of cover of its plans, subject to 
additional underwriting requirements being met. This wasnt a change to the terms and 
conditions, so it wasnt obliged to inform its customers of this. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that Ms C had a need for the plan at the time it was sold, and she had wanted to extend 
it in 2007 which suggested that she was happy with it. He said there was nothing to suggest 
that the plan had been unaffordable for Ms C and he was satisfied it was suitable for her and 
Mr Cs circumstances at the time it was sold. The investigator said the policy documentation 
was clear, understandable and not mis-leading about what was included with the cover. 
Ms C didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the available documentation from the time Ms C took out this joint term 
assurance plan with Mr C in 2000. This notes that they were looking for £30,000 of life cover 
as they didnt feel they had sufficient cover at the time. They wanted this to be in place until 
their son reached the age of 21, and so wouldnt be financially reliant upon them.
Standard Life recommended that they start a level term plan to meet this objective. The plan 
was for a 12-year period and the monthly premium was £10.02. This included an extension 
option which meant that, until April 2005, they could choose to extend it up to a term no 
longer than April 2035.  When this option ended in 2005, the policy premium reduced to 
£9.51 a month. 
Overall, I think Standard Lifes recommendation met Ms C and Mr Cs needs and objectives 
at the time. I dont think the details of plan inclusions werent properly explained to them, as 
the extension option information was included in their policy documentation.
 
Although I appreciate that it is the subject of a separate complaint, Ms C chose to extend the 
term and increase the amount of their life cover with this plan in 2007, which suggests that 
she considered it to be appropriate in that she wanted to adapt it to her and Mr Cs 
circumstances at that time. 
I appreciate what Ms C has said about not being informed about the date of 2013 being 
relevant. But this is the date that Standard Life changed its policy of allowing plan alterations 
when there wasnt an extension option included in it. It has explained that this wasnt a 
change to the terms and conditions of Ms Cs plan, so there wasnt a requirement to inform 
her about this. The extension option Ms Cs plan included expired in 2005. This change was 
more that Standard Life may have allowed some changes and alterations to plans that didnt 
have this extension option, with further medical underwriting or evidence (such as for Ms C 
in 2007), until it decided to no longer allow this from 2013. 
Overall, I dont think this level term assurance plan was mis-sold to Mr C and Ms C, when it 
met their objectives in 2000 and the details of what it included were set out in the policy 
documentation.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman