DRN-3022663
The complaint
The estate of Mrs B complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax managed 
her account before her death. The estate complains that the correspondence address on the 
account was changed to the address of someone with Power Of Attorney (POA) for Mrs B.
What happened
The estate of Mrs B said that it had discovered after Mrs Bs death that a POA for another 
family member had been shared with Halifax, and Halifax had then changed the 
correspondence address to that of this person. Ill call her Ms B. The representative of the 
estate, Mr B, said he was gravely concerned about this, and he wanted to know how Halifax 
had allowed this to happen. 
Halifax said that it had registered Ms Bs POA more recently than that of Mr B. When Halifax 
does that, it asks if the account holder still has mental capacity. So Halifax said that if Ms B 
had said no, it would automatically have changed the correspondence address to her 
address, because it believes that to be in the customers best interests. 
Mr B has made clear that Mrs B didnt have capacity at this time. 
Halifax said that any one of the people who held a POA for the late Mrs B had been able to 
take action on her account. The POA itself set out that the people holding the POA didnt 
need to act jointly. So Halifax didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator said that hed seen a copy of the POA that Ms B registered with Halifax, and 
had also confirmed that Ms B had been registered as POA on Mrs Bs account some time 
after Mr B. He said that he couldnt see any reason why Halifax should have had concerns 
over whether Ms B was acting in Mrs Bs best interests. 
Our investigator said hed looked into whether or not Halifax shouldve changed the address 
on the account, and he was satisfied that this was done because it was part of 
Halifaxs procedures. He also said he could see from the POA that Halifax didnt need 
authority from all POAs to authorise any changes. So he said he couldnt say that Halifax 
acted unfairly or outside of its terms and conditions or not in line with the POA documents it 
had seen.
Mr B said that he wasnt told of any address change when he registered his POA with the 
bank. And he said that we hadnt established how Ms B found out about the account, or what 
documents she took to Halifax. Mr B didnt believe Ms B was acting in Mrs Bs best interests. 
And he wanted to know why he wasnt contacted about any changes. 
Our investigator said that our service wouldnt investigate how Ms B found out about this 
account. We could only look at what Halifax did. And he noted that there was no activity on 
this account after Ms B was added as someone with authority to act for Mrs B. 
Mr B said it had just been luck that he went into the bank when he did, and he was sure that 
things would have gone badly wrong if he hadnt. He still wanted to know what documents 
had been shown to Halifax to evidence that Mrs B had an account with it. And he wanted us 
to advise him on how to take a civil case against Ms B, if he decided to do so.
Because Mr B didnt agree with our investigator, this case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Ms B registered the POA she held with Halifax. Ive seen this POA, and it does allow those 
who hold power of attorney for Mrs B to act separately. So Im satisfied that Halifax didnt 
need Mr Bs approval to register Ms Bs POA. 
Like our investigator, I dont think Halifax had any reason to suspect that Ms B wasnt acting 
in the best interests of Mrs B. 
Halifax has explained that its part of its process to check that any post it sends out on the 
account is being sent to someone who will be able to deal with that post. I think thats a fair 
and reasonable approach for Halifax to have taken here. I dont think it was unreasonable or 
unfair of Halifax to change the address to the last person to register a POA on this account. 
I know that Mr B is deeply suspicious of Ms Bs motives in registering the POA she held, and 
he wants to know how she found out about this account. But our service exists to resolve 
complaints between financial services and the people who use those services. Its not for our 
service to become involved in any dispute between Mr B and Ms B. And similarly, we cant 
advise Mr B on how to take any legal action he may be contemplating over this. 
All our service can do is to check whether Halifax did anything wrong. And, having 
considered everything that both sides have told us in this case, I dont think it did here. So, 
although I know Mr B will be disappointed, I dont think that the complaint Mr B brings on 
behalf of the estate of Mrs B should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman