DRN-3225781
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as L, complains that Starling Bank Limited wouldnt allow it to 
amend details provided within an application for a Bounce Back Loan  which limited the 
amount it could borrow.
Miss M is Ls director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
L applied to Starling for a Bounce Back Loan of £18,000 on 11 May 2020. Starling approved 
the application and after Miss M signed and returned the loan agreement, the loan funds 
were drawn down on the same day.
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, businesses could borrow up to 25% of 
their annual turnover. Miss M realised shed misquoted Ls turnover when applying  so she 
wanted to amend this and borrow a slightly higher amount.
Starling looked into things but explained that it wasnt possible to amend the information or 
the loan amount after Miss M signed the loan agreement. And under the rules of the Loan 
Scheme, it wasnt possible to have more than one loan or apply for additional borrowing.
In November 2020, the option to top up a Bounce Back Loan was introduced. This allowed 
businesses which had originally borrowed less than the maximum amount available to them 
to top up their original loan (subject to the same 25% limit). 
Miss M wanted to apply for a top-up loan  but in order to get the maximum amount she 
believed L was eligible for, she still needed Starling to amend the turnover amount declared 
in the original application. But Starling said it wasnt possible to do this under the rules of the 
Loan Scheme. 
Miss M complained to Starling. She said that shed called the bank shortly after submitting 
Ls initial application and was told that shed be able to amend the figures shed provided in 
Ls application. She thought L was entitled to a loan of £39,000 and wanted Starling to 
amend her turnover figure to facilitate a top-up loan.
Starling didnt uphold the complaint. It reviewed the call from Miss M on 11 May but didnt 
agree that the agent had said the turnover figures could be amended. It reiterated that the 
information couldnt be changed once the loan was agreed and drawn down. It said that L 
could only borrow up to 25% of the turnover figure declared in the initial application  and as 
it had reached this limit, it wasnt eligible for a top-up. 
Miss M referred the complaint to us and it was reviewed by one of our investigators. He 
didnt think Starling had done anything wrong. In summary, he didnt find that Starling had 
told Miss M that the loan could be amended in any way prior to it being drawn down. And he 
thought that Starling had acted in line with the rules of the Loan Scheme in declining to 
amend the turnover information and assessing the top-up loan request on the basis of the 
figures provided in Ls initial application. 
As Miss M didnt accept our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for much the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
I dont think there is any dispute over the rules and requirements of the Bounce Back Loan 
Scheme, but for completeness I should confirm the following aspects that are relevant here:
The maximum loan available under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, including any 
top-up loan, was 25% of the applicants annual turnover. 
The annual turnover figure declared in the applicants initial Bounce Back Loan 
application would be used to assess any top-up application and this could not be 
amended.
Starling correctly processed Ls original application in line with the information provided by 
Miss M. She confirmed that her turnover was £75,000 and applied to borrow £18,000 on that 
basis  being just under 25% of the turnover figure she declared. The application process 
was largely based on an applicants self-declaration as to their eligibility and business 
information. So Starling was entitled to rely on the information that L provided in its 
application, which Miss M also attested to being complete and accurate.
While it may have been possible to amend the turnover figure and/or the loan amount before 
the loan was agreed and paid out, Ive not seen that Miss M asked to do this in time. Ive 
listened to her call with the bank on 11 May and no such request was made. It was only after 
the initial loan had been drawn down that Miss M explored this with Starling. But by then it 
was too late  as it wasnt possible under the rules of the Loan Scheme to amend this 
information once the loan had been processed.
Miss M subsequently approached Starling for a top-up loan. But it was only possible to 
borrow up to 25% of the original self-certified annual turnover figure, which couldnt be 
amended at this stage either. While L had borrowed slightly less than the 25% limit, the 
minimum top-up loan was £1,000  and Ls existing borrowing meant it wasnt eligible for 
this.
I appreciate all that Miss M has said and understand that she made a genuine mistake when 
completing Ls original Bounce Back Loan application. I can see why it will feel unfair to her 
that L has been unable to borrow what it might otherwise have been entitled to on the basis 
of a relatively minor administrative error. But I think Starling processed both Ls original 
Bounce Back Loan and request for a top-up loan correctly, in line with the Loan Scheme 
rules. And most significantly here, it had no discretion to amend Ls turnover figure by the 
time Miss M was in touch to request this. 
So while I sympathise with the position Miss M found herself in, Im not requiring Starling to 
take any action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman