DRN-4000190
The complaint
Mr O complains that a holiday lodge purchased under a conditional sale agreement from 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2017 Mr O purchased a holiday lodge and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Santander.
The cash price of the holiday lodge was £106,378. Mr O paid a deposit of £11,500. The 
amount of credit was £94,878 and the total amount repayable was £170,249,20, payable by 
120 monthly payments of £1322.91. 
Mr O says he was told prior to entering into the agreement that the holiday lodge had been 
fully inspected. However, on his first visit shortly after purchase, Mr O found that the carpets 
were dirty and that a fence which the supplier had agreed to install in the garden area hadnt 
been installed. Mr O also found that the bedroom door was cracked, and the electricity kept 
tripping due to a faulty electrical box. On subsequent visits over the course of the next few 
months Mr O discovered further issues. These included:
Faulty boiler
Inadequate foundations
Faulty TV aerial
Faulty doors and cupboards
Faulty electric radiator
 Broken blind
Loose wall panels
Flood chains not attached
Faulty guttering
Damage to cladding
Mr O raised these issues with the supplier and chased for repairs and/or replacements for 
many months but was unable to get things resolved.
In November 2019 Mr O raised a complaint with Santander and asked to reject the holiday 
lodge and end the agreement.
Santander investigated and arranged an independent inspection of the lodge. It issued its 
final response in January 2021 in which it partially upheld the complaint. Santander said the 
supplier of the lodge had agreed to carry out all the necessary repairs to put right the faults 
which had been identified in the inspection report as being inherent or developing at the 
point of sale. These included:
Flood chains
Faulty electric radiator
Faulty bedroom and bathroom door
Marks on ceiling around spotlights
Faulty panelling on side of lodge
Faulty guttering
Santander said that in relation to the other issues which Mr O had complained about, it 
hadnt seen evidence to show that these faults were inherent at the point of sale.
Mr O wasnt happy with Santanders response and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said it wasnt reasonable to experience so many 
issues with a brand new holiday lodge within the first year of use. She also said that the 
supplier had been given reasonable opportunity to carry out remedial work to make sure the 
lodge was of satisfactory quality. The investigator concluded that Mr O should be allowed to 
reject the lodge and end the agreement. She said Santander should: 
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Refund the deposit
Refund 20% of all payments made by Mr O between August 2017 and October 2018 to 
reflect impaired use
Refund all payments made by Mr O since October 2018
Pay 8% simple interest on the sums refunded
Remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Os credit file
Santander said it disagreed with the outcome. It provided the pleadings (amended claim 
form and amended defence) in relation to civil proceedings between Mr O and the supplier. 
This service asked Santander to provide further comment on why it didnt agree with the 
investigators view, but Santander hasnt responded.
Mr O said he agreed with the outcome in principle but felt that he should receive 
compensation. He also said he didnt think the 20% refund of payments for impaired use was 
fair when viewed in the context of the significant monthly payments he had been making for 
the lodge and the nature of the faults which had impaired his use and enjoyment of it. Mr O 
also said that the lodge had a re-sale value now of more than hed paid for it, and he felt that 
Santander were likely to make a profit from the situation.
I issued a provisional decision. Ive set out below what I said in my provisional decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The conditional sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this 
service can consider complaints about it. Santander is the finance provider for the holiday 
lodge supplied under the agreement and is responsible for a complaint about its quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant here. This says, amongst other things, that goods 
must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. The quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account 
factors such as the age of the goods, the price paid and any other relevant circumstances.
I take account of relevant law when deciding whats fair and reasonable. So, if I thought that 
the holiday lodge was faulty when it was supplied to Mr O, and this fault made it not of 
satisfactory quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.
The independent inspection arranged by Santander was completed in December 2020. This 
concluded that there were a number of faults which wouldve been present or developing at 
the point of supply. These included the flood tethering chains not being attached, faulty 
electric radiator in the lounge, a faulty bedroom and bathroom door, marks on the ceiling 
around the spotlights, faulty panelling on the side of the lodge and faulty guttering. Given 
that the lodge was brand new at the point of supply, Id expect it to be free from faults for a 
reasonable period of time. I dont think a reasonable person would expect to experience 
these faults within the first year of use of the lodge.
Ive reviewed the evidence submitted by Santander when it disagreed with the investigators 
view. However, the amended defence in the civil proceedings is dated December 2019. This 
document pre-dates the independent inspection carried out in December 2020, which clearly 
states that there were point of supply faults. Im persuaded that the independent report 
carries more evidential weight than the amended defence, particularly as the civil 
proceedings were discontinued prior to trial. 
On balance, I dont think the holiday lodge was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied 
for the reasons Ive given above.
Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed an opportunity to repair a fault. Its 
relevant that the supplier has already tried to repair the lodge and failed. When Santander 
issued its final response, it said the supplier of the holiday lodge had agreed to carry out 
repairs. Based on what Ive seen, not all of the remedial work has been carried out. Its fair to 
say that the relationship between Mr O and the supplier has broken down. Taking everything 
into consideration, I think Mr O has given the business a reasonable opportunity to carry out 
repairs and bring the holiday lodge up to satisfactory quality. In the circumstances, I think Mr 
O should be allowed to reject the lodge and end the agreement. Mr O should also get his 
deposit back and receive a refund of payments less a deduction for usage. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence of arguments they wished to rely on 
before I reached a final decision. 
Mr O accepted my provisional decision. Santander didnt respond.
In the circumstances, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to that which I reached 
in my provisional decision.Putting things right
To put things right, Santander should:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Refund the deposit of £11,500
Refund 20% of all payments made by Mr O between August 2017 and October 2018
Refund all payments made by Mr O since October 2018
Apply 8% simple annual interest on all refunds, calculated from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Pay compensation for distress and inconvenience of £500
Remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Mr Os credit file
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Santander Consumer UK Plc must take the 
steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman