DRN-1801960
The complaint
Mr B complains about the delays and poor handling of his claim for storm damage to his 
boiler under his home insurance policy with Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA).
What happened
Mr B said his boiler was damaged on 1 October 2019 by a storm. He described this as a 
local, short-term, severe downpour with wind force sufficient to drive rain into the flue. He 
said the engineer visited to restore the boiler operation, but gas levels were dangerously 
high, and the boiler was damaged beyond repair and had to be replaced. 
RSA declined Mr Bs claim saying there was no evidence of a storm on 1 October 2019. It 
said its building specialist reported no external damage to the wall or flue, but said there was 
no weather guard and water had been able to enter over time. RSA said the weather had 
highlighted an existing defect and the new boiler Mr B obtained had a weather guard fitted 
which confirmed this was a required protection. RSA offered Mr B £250 as the sum he could 
have claimed had he used the home emergency section of his building insurance policy.
Mr B said RSAs assessor agreed that ingress of water through the flue was the cause of the 
damage, and it flooded his kitchen floor. He said the assessor told him a storm is defined as 
winds of more than 47 mph, but wind on the day was highest at 38 mph. RSA said the 
weather records indicated only 8mm of rain an hour, so this wouldnt constitute a storm. Mr B 
said whatever the strength of the storm it damaged his boiler and he felt aggrieved that after 
staying with RSA for many years his first sizeable claim has been rejected.
RSA checked with its building specialists and confirmed in the absence of storm damage it 
couldnt validate the claim. Mr B thought RSAs expert hadnt understood the flue entry was 
standard at the time for his boiler and it had survived several storms. He said it has to allow 
free movement of combustion air in and the flue slopes into the heat exchanger so that once 
its passed its heat to the incoming air it can be drained. He said this design was state-of-
the-art in 2011 when installed and there was no weather guard available then.
Mr B said for RSA to cite national or regional weather statistics at the time was inappropriate 
for a local downpour of such intensity that damaged his boiler beyond repair and can only be 
viewed as a device to avoid a claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said storm isnt defined by 
the policy and we say it involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. 
She said weather records for Mr Bs area on the day show the highest wind speed as 37mph 
and a maximum of 16mm rain over 24 hours. She said neither the wind or the rain was 
heavy enough to be considered as a storm and so RSA had fairly declined the claim.
Mr B disagreed and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. He said our website 
claims that rain alone can constitute a storm. And there was a cloudburst of such intensity 
that water caused irreparable damage. He said weather reports showed there was wind from 
the NNE with a very local downpour which didnt occur in other parts of the village where he 
lives. He said the argument that the weather conditions at the time did not constitute a storm 
is invalid as whatever the conditions, they were sufficient to cause damage and loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at RSAs decisions and handling of Mr Bs claim to see if it acted in 
accordance with the policy and has treated him fairly.
I sympathise with Mr B for the damage caused to his boiler and kitchen floor by the ingress 
of water. However, I havent upheld his complaint. I realise that this will be a disappointment 
to him, but I hope he can see my reasons.
Mr B holds an indemnity policy which aims to put him back in the position he occupied 
before damage or loss occurred. The damage or loss that is covered is limited to specific 
one-off events known as perils  one such peril is storm damage. Mr B said RSAs position 
that the weather conditions didnt constitute a storm is invalid as whatever the conditions, 
they were sufficient to cause damage and loss. Unfortunately, this is incorrect. For his claim 
to be covered it does matter as to the presence or otherwise of storm conditions when his 
boiler was damaged.
Some insurers offer all risk policies, which as the name suggests cover loss or damage 
from whatever cause other than from wear and tear or ongoing maintenance that 
householders have to deal with from time to time. Mr B would have had to have held such a 
policy to mount the argument that he should be covered whenever weather conditions are 
capable of causing damage.
So, I have looked at the weather reports local to Mr Bs home to see if the conditions might 
have constituted a storm as our service understands it, on 1 October 2019. From these it 
would appear there was some heavy rainfall but not rainfall that would constitute a storm. 
We wouldnt expect the amount of rain recorded (16mm over 24 hours) to cause significant 
damage. Wind speeds were well below what our service considers to be the minimum storm 
force (47mph). This means the damage suffered by Mr Bs boiler cant be attributed to the 
one off insured event of storm as required by the policy.
RSAs building specialist said Mr Bs boiler lacked a weather guard and RSA said his 
replacement boiler has been fitted with one. Ive no reason to disbelieve Mr B when he says 
this wasnt provided with his previous boiler, but I hope that now one is in place the weather-
related damage hes suffered wont happen again.
Because theres nothing to show there were storm conditions at the time the damage 
occurred I think that it was fair and reasonable for RSA to decline Mr Bs claim. 
Im pleased that RSA has paid Mr B £250 as the amount he could have claimed to deal with 
an emergency under his policy, and I think this is fair.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Andrew FraserOmbudsman