DRN-3174047
The complaint
Mrs R complained her motor policy was unfairly cancelled by her broker, Right Choice 
Insurance Brokers Limited (Right Choice). 
What happened
Mrs R was unhappy when Right Choice cancelled her policy one month before it was due to 
expire, so she missed out on her no claims bonus (NCB).
Following an incident, Right Choice carried out validation on the claim and asked Mrs R to 
provide evidence of her current mileage. As Mrs R didnt provide this evidence, Right Choice 
said in line with the terms and conditions, it cancelled Mrs Rs policy.
Mrs R didnt think this was fair as Right Choice only sent emails and letters and didnt call 
her. She said as it was urgent, Right Choice shouldve phoned her. She said she didnt 
receive the emails and hadnt been to check her post due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mrs R didnt think Right Choice handled the situation very well when she complained. 
However, Right Choice didnt agree, although as a gesture of goodwill it chose to waive the 
£60 administration charge for the cancellation.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said Right Choice had made 
satisfactory efforts to contact Mrs R and subsequently cancelled the policy in line with the 
terms and conditions. Mrs R disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R was made aware that as her complaint has been made against her broker, my 
decision can only consider the actions of the broker, which in this complaint, includes how 
Right Choice administered the policy.
I understand Mrs R will feel aggrieved with the cancellation of her policy, as not only did she 
lose her insurance for a month which left her in a vulnerable position, she was potentially 
impacted financially as her NCB didnt materialise. Therefore, I have considered whether 
Right Choice was fair in cancelling Mrs Rs policy in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Right Choice was reasonable in requesting information to validate the previous 
incident. This is normal practice in the industry to validate a claim.
Right Choice said it had cancelled the policy in line with the terms and conditions. So, I have 
checked what the policy terms say. The terms state: we or your insurance intermediary can 
cancel this policy by giving you 7 days notice in writing to your last address notified to us.  
Therefore, I will say Right Choice has been fair in declining the claim if it has provided Mrs R 
enough opportunity to respond to its correspondence.
I can see Mrs R responded to Right Choices request to send it proof of her car tax in 
September 2020. Right Choice sent Mrs R an email and a letter to Mrs R in November 2020 
asking her to provide evidence of her mileage within 14 days. As no reply was received it 
sent Mrs R a cancellation notice, where it said if the evidence of mileage wasnt provided 
within 7 days it would cancel her policy.
Mrs R said she didnt receive the correspondence which is why she said she didnt respond 
to the request. She said she responded to the request for her car tax and said she wouldnt 
have ignored the other request for information if shed seen it. She said there was no logical 
reason for her to ignore it when she only had one payment left and she had further NCB due 
to accrue. She said she explained to Right Choice that she was shielding and couldnt check 
her post. She said she explained this to Right Choice, but it wasnt sympathetic to her.
Right Choice said: we have no obligation [to phone Mrs R] and we believe the steps taken 
to contact you (email and letter) were more than sufficient. Mrs R said she didnt receive 
these. But, I can see evidence that Right Choice has sent Mrs R emails and letters to the 
registered address and email details held on the account. It then followed up to inform Mrs R 
her policy had been cancelled. So, I think it has followed the requirements set out in the 
policy terms, so I do think it has acted reasonably.
I think if Mrs R had specific requirements from Right Choice to contact her via a different 
method due to the pandemic or any other reason, she needed to inform Right Choice of this 
need. I dont think its reasonable to expect Right Choice to change its normal method of 
communication unless its aware of a specific customers needs. I see no reason why Right 
Choice wouldnt have complied with a specific request from Mrs R if it had known she had 
one.
So, I know this will be disappointing for Mrs R as her NCB has been impacted, but Im not 
able to uphold this complaint. Its possible Mrs R hasnt seen the correspondence. I dont 
question this. However, I think Right Choice has reasonably acted in line with its terms and 
conditions, so I think it was fair to cancel Mrs Rs policy as it hadnt received the information 
it requested from her. Right Choice wasnt aware Mrs R had issues receiving 
correspondence through specific channels.
Ive also considered how Right Choice reviewed the complaint. It carried out an investigation 
and listened to the calls. I think this is a reasonable approach. It said the call was difficult 
due to the circumstances of the cancellation. I can understand how frustration on the call 
developed as there was a difference of opinion. While Right Choice didnt think it did 
anything wrong, it waived the administration costs of the cancellation as a gesture of 
goodwill. I think this is fair, so Im not going to ask Right Choice to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Right Choice Insurance 
Brokers Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman