DRN-3135682
The complaint
Mr D has complained about the manner Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim on his 
motor insurance policy, which resulted in bailiffs calling at his door.
Reference to Aviva includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr D was in an accident in September 2019. Aviva offered to settle the other drivers (the 
third partys) claim. But the third partys representatives weren't happy with Avivas offer of 
settlement and the matter proceeded to court. 
In September 2020 the court found in the third partys representatives favour. On 
6 November 2020 Mr D received a letter saying that, following the court action, he owed 
almost £4,200. Mr D passed the letter to Aviva. It received the letter on 10 November 2020 
and contacted the solicitors whod represented it in court. Aviva then paid the claim amount 
the next day. 
However, on 24 November 2020 bailiffs called at Mr Ds door saying that he owed over 
£5,000 and that a County Court Judgment (CCJ) had been registered against him. He 
contacted Aviva and its solicitors later confirmed that no CCJ had been made against him 
and that the other side had been paid in full.
Mr D complained. Aviva acknowledged it hadn't progressed everything as quickly as it could 
and it offered Mr D £350 compensation to address the impact of that. But it said it wasn't 
responsible for the bailiffs visiting Mr D.
Mr D remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us. He said he thought compensation 
of £500 or more was appropriate. One of our investigators looked into it. He didn't think 
Aviva needed to make any further offer. Mr D didn't agree so the complaint's been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to instruct Aviva to make any further offer to Mr D.
Aviva initially handled the claim reasonably, making an offer to settle it to the other side 
around three weeks after the accident. But the third partys representatives didn't think the 
settlement offer was enough. 
It's not unusual for the various parties to a claim to dispute the sums involved. And in this 
case Aviva clearly felt its offer was fair and that the third partys representatives figures 
were inflated. So it was prepared to defend its position in court. Avivas explained why it 
thought it had reasonable prospects for winning the case. And I think its position was 
reasonable. So I don't think it handled the matter unfairly at the outset. Thats the case even 
though, ultimately, the judge found in the other sides favour.
There was then a delay while the solicitors representing Aviva and the third party solicitors 
tried to agree on the correct figure outstanding. And while this was going on Mr D received a 
letter telling him that he had to pay almost £4,200. Mr D passed that letter to Aviva who 
contacted its solicitors the next day. Another day later, Aviva paid the outstanding settlement 
to the third party solicitors. That should have been the end of the matter as Aviva had 
discharged its duty to pay what it owed.
But, about four days later Aviva received a request to pay the settlement direct to bailiffs 
instructed by the third party solicitors. It's not clear why the third party solicitors didn't pass 
the settlement it had already received directly to the bailiffs itself. But I can't see that this was 
because of anything Aviva did or didn't do. In any event, Aviva then paid the bailiffs directly 
the next day. So Aviva had paid everything owed and had discharged its duty to settle the 
claim in full. That should have been the end of the matter. It wasn't.
A week later bailiffs knocked on Mr Ds door. They told him that the court had imposed a 
CCJ against him and he owed over £5,000. But that doesn't appear to be the case. At that 
point the bailiffs had already received everything that was owed. And I note Mr D said that 
the bailiffs acknowledged this when they spoke with him. So it's not at all clear why they 
visited him.
I can understand that this must have been an immensely stressful experience for Mr D. 
Particularly as a CCJ could have had fairly far reaching effects on him. But I'm satisfied that 
the bailiffs actions weren't as a result of anything Aviva did or didn't do. I've seen evidence 
that Aviva had already paid the bailiffs promptly when asked to a week before they called at 
Mr Ds door. 
The bailiffs weren't instructed by Aviva, they were instructed by the third party solicitors. So 
Aviva isn't responsible for the actions of the bailiffs. Further Avivas solicitors checked the 
appropriate records and confirmed that there wasn't a CCJ recorded against Mr D. And if it 
had been then this was an error by some other party, not by Aviva. So Aviva simply isn't 
responsible for the distress and inconvenience Mr D suffered because of the bailiffs visit and 
the incorrect information they gave to him.
In response to Mr Ds complaint Avivas acknowledged that it could have handled matters 
better. And I note in particular that there was a delay in it replying to Mr D after he told it 
about the bailiffs visit. It offered Mr D £350 compensation for the impact of that. 
I understand Mr D doesn't think that goes far enough, especially given the stress and 
embarrassment he went through having bailiffs at his door and the belief that hed had a 
CCJ awarded against him. But as I've said above those things weren't Avivas fault. So I'm 
not going to instruct it to pay compensation for the effects of something it didn't cause to 
happen. And I think the figure of £350 compensation its already offered is reasonable for the 
impact of its actions.
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 Joe Scott
Ombudsman