DRN-2145211
The complaint
This complaint is about a re-mortgage that Mr S and Mrs S arranged in 2018/19 through
Alexander Hall Associates Limited (AHAL). They say that due to shortcomings on AHALs
part, they had to pay a higher rate on their previous mortgage for three months. They think
AHAL should compensate them the extra cost, amounting to around £1,400.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 11 August 2020, I set out the reasons why I wasnt 
minded to uphold this complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional decision:
The starting point is that AHAL neither caused the completion delay in the first place, nor 
made it longer by anything it did or failed to do. That was solely down to how long it took for 
the HTB lender and the conveyancer to carry out the formalities of postponing the HTB 
lenders charge. In making that observation, I imply no criticism of either party, and none 
should be inferred. But all of that happened after AHAL had arranged the mortgage with B 
and the offer had been issued, and was outside AHALs span of control.
I deal here solely with what AHAL did, or didnt do; and it seems to me that the most AHAL 
could be considered guilty of is failing to forecast the delay hence managing Mr S and Mrs 
S expectations appropriately. So Ive given a lot of thought to what might have happened 
differently if at the outset in September 2018, AHAL had given Mr S and Mrs S a more 
accurate prediction of how long a re-mortgage transaction would take, due to the HTB 
lenders requirements.
Realistically, there wasnt any alternative course of action that would have placed Mr S and 
Mrs S in a better position financially than they eventually ended up in. Any re-mortgage, 
regardless of which new lender was selected, would have required the postponement of the 
HTBs lenders charge, and so would have taken broadly the same amount of time to 
complete.
The only way to avoid that was if AHAL had recommended Mr S and Mrs S keep their 
mortgage with H, and do a product switch to start on 1 January 2019. The difficulty there is 
that the available rates with H were higher than the deal with B, and whilst Mr S and Mrs S 
would have avoided the extra interest they paid on SVR, theyd have paid more overall 
during the lifetime of the product.
The reality here is that the only way Mr S and Mrs S could have been certain of getting the 
best available re-mortgage deal and having it complete on or soon after 1 January 2019 is if 
theyd made contact with AHAL much earlier in 2018. Again, I imply no criticism of them for 
not doing so and none should be inferred; they couldnt have known that by September 
2019 the moment had already passed.
For the shortcomings in the service it provided, I consider that AHAL has made a fair offer 
of compensation, and I encourage Mr S and Mrs S to accept it. But on the main thrust of 
the complaint, for the reasons set out, I do not find that AHAL should reimburse them the 
extra interest they paid H after 1 January 2019 due to being on SVR.
AHAL accepted my provisional findings; but Mr S and Mrs S did not; they remain of the view 
that AHAL told them completion would happen comfortably by 31 December 2018. If it had 
told them otherwise at the outset Mr S and Mrs S believe their previous broker would have 
sorted things out more quickly. Alternatively, AHAL should have reached out to HTB in 
September or October 2018, if it had theyd have completed in time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not departing from my provisional conclusions.
Having reviewed all of the communication between the parties, Im not persuaded AHAL 
gave any guarantee that completion wouldnt be delayed beyond 31 December 2018. 
Indeed, as I said in the provisional decision, it did just the opposite by letting Mr S and Mrs S 
know it could take longer. It wasnt AHALs role to reach out to HTB; that was the 
conveyancers role, after the new mortgage offer had been issued. AHALs job was to 
arrange the mortgage with the new lender, and it did that without any undue delay.
Ive found that AHAL may arguably have failed to forecast how long HTB might take to deal 
with things. I also found that but for that failure, Mr S and Mrs S position wouldnt be any 
different. Mr S and Mrs S say their previous broker would have sorted things out with HTB 
more quickly, but thats unknowable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against Alexander 
Hall Associates Limited. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman