DRN-3272278
complaint
Mr T says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a store card. 
He thought the sale was in 2003, but we now know it was in 1996.
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint and said they didnt think we should 
uphold it. 
Mr Ts representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. However, they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. Nor did they clarify any of the issues wed asked for more information on.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. When considering what is fair and 
reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ts. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
I was sent the credit agreement Mr T filled out when he took out the card and PPI. I can see 
there was a section on the application leaflet about PPI. This invited him to choose whether 
or not to have PPI cover. Mr T ticked a box and entered some relevant details here, so I 
think this suggests that he did want it when he applied for the card. Because I also think he 
would have had access to the terms and conditions, as these were part of the leaflet-based 
application, I think he consented to the cover when he signed the form. I think hed have 
been equally free to not have asked for the PPI.
AXA provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough clear 
information for Mr T to decide for himself whether he wanted the cover. 
Its certainly conceivable that AXA could have explained the policy in more detail than it did, 
although I think Mr T probably would have been able to see basic details such as the policys 
cost. Overall, I think he probably had enough information to decide what he wanted to do. 
Even if I accept more could have been explained by AXA, this doesnt make any difference 
to my decision Im afraid.
This is because the cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr T. For example he wasnt 
affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. I note his representative 
mentioned hed had high blood pressure in 1990. But it provided little detail and no evidence 
about this and as the sale was some 6 years after this, I dont have enough information to 
think it is relevant. I also see we asked for his representative to clarify Mr Ts working status, 
given he had believed the PPI sale to be in 2003, rather than in 1996. Again, we didnt 
receive that information. 
So overall, I dont think the policy was too dissimilar, in general terms, to what Mr T 
reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was most likely given at the point 
of sale. Mr T was probably eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was 
relatively expensive, but the benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most 
credit cards. For instance, if hed become unable to work or lost his job, the PPI would have 
paid off 15% of his outstanding store card balance each month until he returned to work. As 
he had no sick pay  hed originally mentioned this - I think these benefits wouldve been of 
use. So although I cant say why Mr T decided to select this cover when he applied for the 
card, I think the PPI policy was something that would have been of use to him. I think this 
could explain why he chose it on the form.
I think there were probably some additional policy rules about the cover for back problems 
and stress related disorders. Ive noted he probably wasnt affected by these. I also doubt Mr 
T would have expected to claim for a back problem, for instance, without first providing at 
least some evidence, which is what the rules required. 
Mr Ts representative has raised a number of what I consider to be other general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ts representative failed to say how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints. I have 
thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ts particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
This means AXA France IARD doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
my decisionHaving considered all the evidence and arguments, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman