DRN-3670048
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain, through a claims management company, that Legal & General 
(Portfolio Management Services) Ltd provided unsuitable investment advice in 2006 when it 
recommended them to invest £14,000 in stocks and shares ISAs* and £14,000 in Unit 
Trusts. (*Individual Savings Accounts - a form of tax efficient savings).
To resolve their complaint, Mr and Mrs B are looking for financial compensation.
What happened
With 12 years or so to go before Mr B reached state pension age, he took early retirement 
due to ill health in 2006. When Mr and Mrs B spoke to Legal & Generals financial adviser, 
Mr B had recently received around £30,000 as a retirement lump sum which boosted 
Mr and Mrs Bs existing savings.
Over the course of meetings in May and June 2006, alongside making other investments 
which are not the subject of this complaint, Mr and Mrs B were advised to invest as follows:
£7,000 each in a Maxi ISA with funds invested equally in the Henderson Preference 
& Bond fund and the New Star Sterling Bond fund, and
£7,000 each in Unit Trusts with funds invested equally in the INVESCO Perpetual 
Income fund and Artemis European Growth fund.
Mr and Mrs B said they were mainly unhappy because the financial advisers 
recommendations left almost all their life savings and money Mr B would need to depend on 
for his future financial needs exposed to funds underpinned by equities and increased their 
total exposure unnecessarily. They felt the recommendation they each invest £3,500 in the 
Invesco Perpetual Income Fund and £3,500 in the Artemis European Growth Fund was 
particularly concerning as they felt both had significant equity compositions unsuitable for 
first time investors such as them.
In response to this complaint Legal & General said Mr and Mrs B had left it too late to 
complain about advice in 2006. Mr and Mrs B werent happy with this response so they 
brought their complaint to us.  
Where complaints concern something that happened more than six years ago, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service cant always look into what happened. An ombudsman considered 
whether the complaint was in our jurisdiction and told Legal & General that Mr and Mrs B 
were still in time to bring their complaint and this was a complaint we could look at.
Our investigator proceeded to look at the merits of their complaint.
Legal & General said the recommendation was suitable for Mr and Mrs B and they didnt 
agree with any of their complaint points. 
After considering the complaint, the investigator said he mainly thought that:
Mr and Mrs B were in a position to be able to invest and the ISAs had been suitable 
as they matched the risk level Mr and Mrs B were looking for to meet their financial 
needs and achieve their investment objectives for long term growth. Our 
investigator felt that the funds they were invested in comprised a diverse range 
across sectors and countries, so limiting Mr and Mrs Bs risk exposure. 
The Unit Trust investments werent inappropriate for Mr and Mrs B as the funds 
themselves were well established with equities in large multi-nationals and focused 
on long term growth. Whilst they carried some risks, our investigator felt 
Mr and Mrs B were aware of this and understood that to achieve some growth 
ahead of standard savings accounts they had to take a small amount of risk. The 
investigator said Mr and Mrs B knew the funds could go up and down but accepted 
this as they wanted to invest for the long term to get the growth they wanted.
All in all, our investigator didnt feel this was a complaint he could recommend upholding.
 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator. In brief summary, their representative said:
Mr and Mrs B had simply agreed to the meeting with the financial adviser to clarify 
what was best to do with their money at this new stage in their lives where they had 
access to greater funds than previously but that there was no prerequisite 
objective towards investing, simply (they) wished to look after their capital and rely 
upon others expertise 
Given the amount of their capital it was clearly not appropriate to simply leave this in 
the current accounts, but there was no reason to then automatically jump to the 
position of investing the capital that was destined to pay for their retirement.
Considering their changed circumstances and uncertain future needs, and pending 
full retirement when their likely expenses, needs, desires and objectives would 
change, it wasnt appropriate to invest this sum. Mr and Mrs Bs representative put 
things this way: This was money they had built up to pay for their retirement not to 
be gambled with or potentially flitted away on the eve of their full retirement.
Mr and Mrs B held endowment policies that would be maturing in the coming years 
so they already had risks within their holdings and should not have been increasing 
the risk levels further at this stage  or at least, not until other risk based products 
had matured.
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Legal & General has engaged with us in dealing with the complaint following the 
ombudsmans decision and I am satisfied that I can consider the complaint, so I dont need 
to say more about jurisdiction. 
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.I think its reasonable for me to rely substantially on the documentation completed at the 
time, including the fact find and suitability letter, to give me an insight into Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances and financial situation and an understanding of their wishes and intentions 
when they met with Legal & Generals adviser in 2006. 
This is what was recorded about Mr and Mrs Bs financial situation and circumstances at the 
time.
They had £1,350 in disposable income each month after paying for their monthly 
commitments of £1,250. 
Mr and Mrs B had built up a capital amount of around £133,000 from redundancy lump 
sums, savings and a lump sum inheritance which was currently invested as follows:
they each had approximately £52,776 in cash based savings,
Mr B had nearly £7,000 invested in a PEP (an historic form of tax efficient equity 
based investment) and around £13,000 invested in stocks and shares ISAs.
Mrs B had £7,000 invested in stocks and shares ISAs.
Mr and Mrs B owned their own home worth around £185,000 and had no other financial 
liabilities or dependants.
Overall, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs B were in a strong enough financial situation to be 
able to invest £58,000 of their cash reserves as recommended by the adviser.
One of Mr and Mrs Bs main complaints is that the recommended investments didnt fit their 
attitude to risk, so I've thought carefully about what I know about Mr and Mrs Bs risk 
approach at the time compared to the risks of the investments they were recommended. 
Mr and Mrs B already had some investment experience with endowment plans, money in a 
PEP and other stocks and shares ISAs. So I think it's fair to say they were not completely 
new to investing. They told the adviser they had tended to invest in deposit accounts for 
short term expenditure and chosen to save additional disposable income into medium-term 
investments in a corporate bond PEP and stocks and shares ISA as they understood this to 
be one of the least volatile investments that would grow steadily rather than be subject to the 
roller coaster ride associated with the stock market. 
The adviser concluded from this that Mr and Mrs B appreciated that equities are likely to 
provide more investment growth over the medium to long term
I think Mr and Mrs B probably had a reasonable understanding of the basic principle that risk 
was commensurate with growth potential and, in choosing to invest, they needed to balance 
their investment objectives against the risk they felt comfortable taking with their money.
The adviser identified Mr and Mrs Bs existing risk profile as Minimal to Cautious. Referring 
to a scale of risk rated by Legal & General as follows: Minimal Risk, Cautious Risk, 
Moderate Risk and High Risk the adviser said Mr and Mrs B wanted to lift their risk profile 
to Cautious overall. 
Legal & General explained Cautious Risk as follows: 
You are looking for the potential of a return in excess of cash deposits but capital security is 
an important concern. You are willing to invest in non-cash assets and are comfortable that 
there may be some exposure to the stock market. You accept that your money is not guaranteed, the value of your investments will vary and your investment potential may be 
restricted. 
I think its likely risk was discussed and theres nothing to show that Mr and Mrs B raised any 
objection to this assessment of their risk approach at the time, which Id have expected them 
to have done if they disagreed. I find that Mr and Mrs B demonstrated a Cautious attitude to 
risk overall (as defined by Legal & General) and that this fairly reflected their understanding 
of risk and the level of risk they were comfortable taking on. 
Mr and Mrs B had kept well over a third of their potential £133,000 investment pot as 
cash deposits so I think they had capacity to take some investment risk with the £28,000 
they invested together in the ISAs and Unit Trusts. 
Mr and Mrs B wanted to achieve capital growth in a tax efficient way and have cash left on 
deposit for security. They wanted to build on their previous investing experience of a stocks 
and shares ISA and have a more diversified portfolio. They wanted to earn a greater return 
than that received on a bank deposit account. They were prepared to invest for the medium 
term and for at least five years. 
The adviser recorded that Mr and Mrs B understood that deposits do not provide the 
highest growth potential and that investment can boost your returns. However, you also 
appreciate that some investment can be illiquid or volatile and so you wanted to avoid these 
asset classes, preferring the more cautious asset class you are already familiar and happy 
with, fixed interest securities
Whilst I think it was reasonable to recommend risk-based investment to Mr and Mrs B in 
order to boost their chances of getting a better return on their money, they needed to be 
comfortable that the level of risk associated with recommended investment reflected their 
attitude to risk. 
The ISAs recommended were invested in bonds - fixed interest funds that provided tax free 
returns. They were intended to achieve long-term capital growth in a tax efficient way over a 
minimum investment term of at least five years. The adviser drew Mr and Mrs Bs attention 
to fund specific risks in the product literature he gave them. 
Mr and Mrs B complained that, as part of their overall portfolio, the ISAs unnecessarily 
exposed them to risk. But, thinking about the investment risk of the ISAs and Mr and Mrs Bs 
plans for achieving capital growth and getting a better return on their money compared to the 
funds they kept in deposit based savings, I find the ISAs reasonably reflected their agreed 
objectives and risk attitude and they were suitable for Mr and Mrs B.
Thinking about the Unit Trusts, Legal & General cant provide the product fact sheets 
from the time of the investments but its my understanding that the funds comprised 
equities in large multi-nationals. 
In the suitability letter the adviser said: I explained that equities are the most volatile 
investment asset class but can offer the highest growth potential over the medium to long 
term. A degree of volatility can be reduced through diversity, both geographically in 
different markets and secondly into different sectors of the market, such as small, 
medium and large companies.
The adviser had noted that: You both confirmed that you are prepared to put a portion of 
your lump sum into funds found in the moderate and high risk profile, providing that your 
overall portfolio risk profile is cautious.And also: You appreciate the higher growth potential of equities and commercial 
property, but also that such investments should perhaps be kept longer, in case of either 
volatility or illiquidity. Given the more sizeable amount of capital you now have to invest 
you felt it was now appropriate to invest in all asset classes to create a diversified 
investment portfolio. However you are still relatively cautious and so want to invest the 
majority of your total wealth in cash and fixed interest securities.
The funds aimed for long term growth which was what Mr and Mrs B wanted. Its likely the 
funds were diverse and comprised a mix of sectors and countries to maximise the spread of 
risk and limit the risks arising from having investment concentrated on too narrow a 
spectrum of funds. 
Im not persuaded that the equity based investment in the Unit trust funds was unsuitable for 
Mr and Mrs B. I think that Mr and Mrs B understood and accepted the risk of the funds that 
Legal & General advised them to invest in. They had some investment experience, 
discussions with the adviser and access to all the relevant product literature so they were 
well placed to make investment decisions. 
I've taken into account that Mr and Mrs B say they simply wished to look after their capital 
and they were prompted by the adviser to invest. But I think it's fair to say Mr and Mrs B also 
wanted to have the benefit of the advisers advice and recommendations. I think they 
understood it was their choice to accept the advice  having been made aware of the option 
of National Savings, Mr and Mrs B decided not to invest in this area. I can understand why, 
as this didnt give them the best chance of making the sort of returns they hoped for. 
They also chose to keep back more than £47,000 in cash based savings, as against the 
advisers recommendation that they should keep around £13,000 in their bank or building 
society to provide easy access, short term funds to meet any sudden or unexpected costs. 
I think they understood there was some risk associated with investing in Unit Trusts. And if 
they hadnt felt comfortable with the level of risk associated with investing in Unit Trusts, they 
were aware that there were other less risky options for their savings. 
On the recommendation of the adviser, Mr and Mrs B invested £30,000 in a portfolio bond 
that included some more risky investment options - Mr and Mrs B dont have any complaint 
about that investment. I think they most likely understood that by investing in funds across 
the whole risk profile, this maximized the degree of diversity they had whilst still giving them 
a broadly cautious risk profile overall.
Overall, their £14,000 investment in Unit Trusts made up around just 10% of their portfolio. 
So, although equities tend towards volatility, I dont find Mr and Mrs B were over reliant on 
these more risky funds or disproportionately invested in Unit Trusts that didnt fit comfortably 
within their overall risk approach.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B say its the additional risk presented by investment in ISAs 
and the Unit Trusts that tipped them over into unacceptable risk exposure. But I consider 
the ISAs were relatively low risk, being fixed interest. And Mr and Mrs Bs investment in 
Unit Trusts made up a relatively small part of their portfolio - not enough in my view to 
adversely impact on their overall risk exposure. 
To sum up, having considered everything, I find that Mr and Mrs B were not exposed to 
more risk than they wanted to take. I am satisfied that Legal & Generals 
recommendations to invest in the ISAs and Unit Trusts were suitable as they met 
Mr and Mrs Bs identified needs and investment objectives and the advice was suitable 
based on their financial situation and circumstances at the time.I appreciate that what I've said here will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B but 
I hope that setting things out as Ive done helps explain why I've come to this overall 
conclusion.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman