DRN-3044614
The complaint
Mr C complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited has unfairly recorded a claim on a 
property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C insures a property with Hiscox. The policy was arranged through a broker.
Mr C previously made a claim for subsidence at the property. After repairs had been 
completed, Mr C noticed further cracks to the property. He informed his broker of this who 
contacted Hiscox.
Hiscox appointed a loss adjuster who visited the property and after completing their 
enquiries concluded that the cracks which had appeared were the result of wear and tear, 
rather than subsidence or any other insured reason.
Mr C subsequently established that Hiscox had recorded the above matter as a fees only 
claim. He thought this was unfair as he hadnt sought to make a claim. When Hiscox rejected 
his complaint, he referred it to our service. Our investigator didnt think Hiscox had done 
anything wrong. As Mr C didnt accept this, his complaint has come to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C advances two arguments for why its unfair for Hiscox to have recorded a claim on the 
policy. The first is that he made an offer, which was refused by Hiscox, to pay the loss 
adjusters fees himself. The second is that he asked the loss adjuster when they visited (and 
before they started their inspection of the property) whether his policy would be affected by 
his visit and was told it would not.
While I understand that Mr C made an offer to cover the loss adjusters fees, I cant say 
Hiscox acted unreasonably by declining this. There was no obligation on Hiscox to accept 
this and its normal practice for an insurer to pay loss adjusters fees as theyre acting on 
behalf of the insurer. And in any case, even if Mr C had paid the loss adjusters fees, Im not 
satisfied that Hiscox would have been acting unfairly in recording a claim against the policy. 
In addition to the loss adjusters fees, it will have incurred its own administration costs when 
it instructed the loss adjuster and in establishing there was no cover on the policy. 
The visit from the loss adjuster to Mr Cs property occurred in 2018, and Mr C made his 
complaint to Hiscox in 2021. Weve asked whether the loss adjuster has any recollection of a 
conversation with Mr C when they attended the property. Unfortunately, due to the length of 
time which has elapsed they dont recall any particular details of the visit. The loss adjusters 
notes from the visit also deal with the damage, rather than any conversations with Mr C. In 
turn, theres no contemporaneous record from Mr C of what was said when the loss adjuster 
visited.
What the loss adjuster has said is that when theyre asked about what effect their visit will 
have on a policy when they carry out their visits, they advise the policyholder to speak to 
their insurer. They assume this is what would have happened if Mr C had asked when they 
visited his property. I cant see that Mr C was ever advised by Hiscox that there would be no 
effect on his policy - that isnt his complaint. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence that Mr C was told by the loss adjuster that 
his policy would be unaffected by their visit. I think that the usual response given by the loss 
adjuster to speak to the insurer is plausible  theyre acting on behalf of an insurer and will 
work on behalf of different insurers so wont be in a position to say whether an insurer will 
record a claim or act in any particular way in response to their visit. 
On balance, I think Hiscox has acted fairly in recording a claim on the policy in all the 
circumstances, and I dont have enough evidence to say that Mr C was given misleading 
information about the effect of the loss adjusters visit on his policy, or that the loss adjuster 
deviated from what theyd normally say to a policyholder.  
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman