DRN-3403835
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with the service she received from Nationwide Building Society 
surrounding her request to switch her current account to Nationwide.
What happened
Mrs G put in a request to switch her current account to Nationwide using the current account 
switch guarantee. Following this request, Mrs G didnt hear from Nationwide, and when she 
contacted them, she was told that the current account switch request had been rejected 
because of incorrect information provided in the request. 
Mrs G wasnt about this, or with the service that she received from Nationwide surrounding 
the matter, including that they hadnt contacted her as they should have done when her 
initial switch request didnt go through. So, she raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mrs Gs complaint. They confirmed that the switch request hadnt been 
successful because of incorrect information provided by Mrs G when requesting the switch, 
and they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Mrs G in how theyd managed the 
situation surrounding the failed switch request. 
Mrs G wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that 
Nationwide had acted unfairly towards Mrs G, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I can appreciate how Mrs G might have been frustrated that her 
current account switch request wasnt completed when she first submitted it, it seems 
evident that the reason the initial switch request wasnt successful was because of 
inaccurate information entered by Mrs G when making the current account switch request.
Specifically, part of the switch request required Mrs G to input the last five numbers of the 
current account that she was switching from  her old current account. This was required so 
that when the switch request was sent to her old current account provider, they would be 
able to identify the account due to be switched to Nationwide. But unfortunately, when Mrs G 
completed the switch request, she instead inputted the last five digits of an account number 
for another Nationwide account that she held, and not the last five digits of the account 
number from her old provider that she wanted to be switched.
It was for this reason that the initial switch request wasnt successful. And given that this 
inaccurate information was inputted by Mrs G herself, I dont feel that I can fairly or 
reasonably hold Nationwide accountable for this.
Im aware that Mrs G also feels that Nationwide didnt attempt to contact her about the failure 
of the initial switch request as per the obligations under the current account switch 
guarantee. However, Nationwide have been able to demonstrate to my satisfaction that they 
did send an email to Mrs G  using the email address that Mrs G has provided to this service 
as her contact email  which advised Mrs G that Nationwide needed to speak with her about 
her switch request and which provided a number for Mrs G to call.
Mrs G has stated that she didnt receive this email and that it isnt in her inbox or her spam 
folder. But, as explained, I am satisfied that it was sent by Nationwide to Mrs Gs correct 
email address, and as such if it wasnt seen by Mrs G it seems possible that it was received 
into her spam folder, within which received emails are usually only retained for a short period 
of time before being automatically deleted.
It could be questioned why Nationwide didnt follow up on this email when Mrs G didnt 
contact them following it being sent. But I feel that Mrs G also had a responsibility to monitor 
the switch request, and while I can understand how the email sent by Nationwide might not 
have been seen by her, I do feel that Nationwide fulfilled their obligation to attempt to contact 
Mrs G by sending it.
Im also aware that Mrs G is unhappy with the service that she received from Nationwide 
when she contacted them by online chat approximately a week after the switch request had 
been rejected and Nationwide had sent the email to her which she didnt see. Accordingly, 
Ive read the transcript of this online chat, and having done so I dont feel that Nationwides 
agent was rude or unfair to Mrs G during their conversation.
I do acknowledge that there was some confusion on the part of the agent in that they initially 
referred to a second switch request that Mrs G had initiated on a different account, but the 
agent quicky realised and corrected their mistake such that Im satisfied that Mrs G was 
provided with the correct information by the agent during the chat.
Finally, Im aware that Mrs G is unhappy with how Nationwide handled her complaint into 
this matter, including that Nationwides complaint response team provided incorrect 
information as to Nationwides obligations under the current account switch guarantee.
However, as per the rules by which this service must abide, which can be found in the 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook, 
this service is only able to consider complaints about regulated financial services. But this 
aspect of Mrs Gs complaint isnt about a regulated financial service  its a complaint about 
how Nationwide have handled a complaint. As such, this means that this aspect of Mrs Gs 
complaint isnt one that its within the remit of this service to consider.
All of which means that, while I can appreciate Mrs Gs frustrations, I find it difficult to 
conclude that Nationwide have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs G here in the 
way that she contends. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Nationwide to take any further action.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs G was wanting, but I hope that shell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman