DRN-3223783
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that their premiums have increased significantly since Fairmead 
Insurance Limited (Fairmead) settled their claim for a broken septic tank. They think the cost 
of the claim has put off other insurers and they think Fairmead inflated the true cost. Mr and 
Mrs T had buildings insurance cover with Fairmead in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only 
to Mr T.
What happened
Mr T made a claim under his buildings policy when he found his septic tank was broken. 
Fairmead settled the claim and paid Mr T compensation for failing to resolve the matter 
sooner. This claim was settled.
At renewal, Fairmead told Mr T that it would no longer be offering insurance in parts of the 
UK, including the area where he lived. It didnt provide Mr T with renewal options. He 
shopped around but found it was difficult to get insurance with another provider because of 
the value of his septic tank claim settlement. Eventually, Mr T found a company which would 
insurance him, but his premium was around £750 more than it had been the previous year.
Mr T complained to Fairmead that it had inflated the cost of the repair, meaning he couldnt 
easily buy cover because he would be seen as a higher risk. Mr T wanted Fairmead to 
provide him with evidence of the invoiced costs of repair and reimburse him the increased 
cost of his policy, which was around £750.
Our investigator didnt think Fairmead had done anything wrong. He thought that Fairmead 
had settled the claim in line with the policy and it was under no obligation to provide Mr T 
with commercially sensitive information about the cost of repairs.
Mr T didnt agree. He remained of the view that Fairmead should provide a breakdown of 
costs because he couldve had the work done at a much lower cost, which wouldve 
prevented the difficulty getting insurance that he was now experiencing.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2021 explaining that I was intending to not 
uphold Mr Ts complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
The issue here is that Mr T says he hasnt been able to get insurance at a reasonable price, 
which he thinks is because of the high value claim under his policy with Fairmead. He said 
he couldve had the work done at a significantly lower cost, so he thinks Fairmead inflated 
the claim value causing him to be seen as a higher insurance risk. 
To be clear, Fairmead settled the claim, so my decision is not about its claim handling. Mr 
Ts dissatisfaction arose when he tried to renew his insurance and he was either rejected by 
insurers or offered a policy with a significantly higher premium.
To uphold this complaint, Id have to see evidence that Fairmead had done something 
wrong. Ive seen the work invoice issued during the claim and there are two significant items 
on it along with several lower costed work items. Fairmead completed the tank replacement, 
which Mr T isnt disputing, but he thinks he couldve had the same work done privately for 
around a quarter of the cost. So, he wants the invoice with the cost breakdown to see 
whether Fairmead exaggerated the claim, in turn causing him to incur higher policy 
premiums.
Addressing this point first, Fairmead said it doesnt want to share the invoice breakdown 
because it includes commercially sensitive information. Its not clear what harm Fairmead 
thinks will come of sharing the information. Mr T is not asking to see policy pricing 
information: he wants to see the cost breakdown of the work done at his home to satisfy 
himself that his claim wasn't exaggerated. 
I understand Mr T has seen the description of works, and he is aware of the invoice total. He 
confirmed that the informal quote he received of around £6000 was provided by a friend of a 
friend, and hes provided links to websites showing the average cost of tank replacements at 
a comparable cost. However, Mr T hasnt provided any evidence that he couldve had 
exactly the same work done as that carried out by Fairmead, by similarly qualified 
contractors, at a lower cost. Mr T had the description of the work done, so I think its 
reasonable to say he couldve obtained a detailed quote of his own without knowing what 
Fairmeads break down of costs were. Without that evidence from Mr T, I cant reasonably 
say Fairmead exaggerated the cost of the claim. 
Mr T complained that some of the work recorded on the invoice wasnt completed, which he 
thinks proves his point that Fairmead exaggerated the cost of his claim. Ive looked at the 
invoices and quotes and I can see that the costs did vary by around £10,000. However, 
having looked through Fairmeads account notes, I can see that there was some internal 
discussion about the work to be carried out after Mr Ts instruction not to replace his tank 
with a different system. So, while I understand that wouldve caused Mr T some concern, its 
clear from the notes that Fairmead wasn't charged for a new sewage system by its 
contractors. I havent seen anything in the evidence to suggest that Fairmead or its 
contractors exaggerated the type of work done. 
At this point, I see no reason to require Fairmead to pay for any difference in policy 
premiums. Thats because Mr T hasnt provided any evidence to prove that Fairmead 
exaggerated the cost of his claim or, if it did, that it was the only reason his premiums 
increased. Should he be able to provide a quote issued by a similarly qualified contractor, for 
the same work as that carried out at his home, at a significantly reduced cost, then Id expect 
Fairmead to respond to Mr Ts concerns. But, as it stands, I cant see any reason to hold 
Fairmead responsible for the premium increase Mr T incurred with another insurer. 
Therefore, Im not proposing to ask Fairmead to reimburse Mr T for the difference in his 
premium.
Overall, the points are so closely linked that I dont think it would be fair to reach a final 
decision until Mr T has a final opportunity to provide an independent, detailed quote for the 
same work Fairmead carried out. And, unless Fairmead can give a good reason for not 
doing so, I think it should share the costed invoice with Mr T. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Fairmead responded only to say why it couldnt share the costed invoice with Mr T. 
Mr T reiterated his complaint and provided documents to support his view that Fairmead had 
exaggerated the cost of the claim, resulting in much higher premiums.Ill address the responses from Fairmead and Mr T now.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr T will be disappointed, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain.
Fairmead explained that it couldnt share the breakdown of costs with Mr T because the 
information was commercially sensitive, not only to Fairmead itself but also the third-party 
contractors providing the services. Im satisfied that meets my request for a good reason for 
not doing so, and I wont be asking Fairmead to share the breakdown of costs.
In my provisional decision, I gave Mr T a final opportunity to provide evidence that Fairmead 
had exaggerated the cost of his claim, causing his premiums to increase. Our investigator 
passed on my clarification to Mr T that he didnt need Fairmeads prices in order to provide 
his own quote. 
Mr T sent in comments from insurance brokers and his most recent renewal quotes to show 
that the claim was the reason his premiums increased so dramatically. I have two points to 
make about this issue:
1. The evidence doesnt confirm that the claim cost was the only reason Mr Ts 
premium went up.
2. Even if the premium went up only because of the claim cost, it would only matter if 
Fairmead had exaggerated the cost.
So, turning to the issue of whether the cost was exaggerated, Mr T originally said he 
couldve had the repair work done for around £6,000. I asked for an independent, detailed 
quote for the same work Fairmead carried out. Mr T provided a quote from a neighbouring 
landscaper for the cost of replacing the septic tank. The quote isnt detailed and, essentially, 
says its for work to remove the existing septic tank and replace with a similar one. In terms 
of the detail, I dont think Mr T has provided sufficient information to show that the quote is 
for a similar level of work. For example, there is no mention of the tank or waste disposal 
costs, or any legal applications required. These are just examples and not intended to 
explain the overall difference in cost.
Looking at the quote total, its for a little under £11,000. Thats almost twice the cost Mr T 
originally said he couldve had the work done for. I appreciate he says he asked for a quote 
for the maximum amount it would cost. But as there is so little detail in the quote, theres 
simply not enough evidence to show that its the like-for-like quote I would need to ask 
anything further of Fairmead. My view is that Mr T hasnt provided evidence of exaggerated 
costs.
As a final point, I can see Mr T provided further commentary on the work Fairmead did or 
didnt do. He asked me to draw conclusions from the amendments Fairmead made to the list 
of works. While I understand what hes asking of me, his complaint was about the impact the 
cost had on his premium, rather than the type of work done. And I cant fairly draw 
conclusions, now, that Fairmead didnt do work just because Mr T says he didnt see it 
happen. I wont comment further on this matter.
Overall, I havent seen anything to persuade me that Fairmead exaggerated the cost of the 
work completed when it replaced Mr Ts broken septic tank, so I see no reason to ask it to 
reimburse him for any of his subsequent insurance premiums.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ts 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman