DRN-2901611
The complaint
Mr M complains that he didnt get a preferential interest rate on his loan from Santander UK
Plc (Santander).
What happened
 In January 2020, Mr M visited his branch of Santander with his daughter. He said hed been 
offered a preferential rate of 3%. He took out a loan of £25,000 at 9.9% APR, repayable over 
5 years. In June 2020, he applied for a further loan of £7,500 and was declined.
Mr M complained. Hed received a mailing, or text from Santander saying he qualified for a 
preferential rate of 3% on a loan. But when he applied in the branch he was given a loan of 
9.9% - more than three times what he thought hed get. He says he was told in the branch 
that the best thing to do was to agree the loan at the higher rate, make payments to it for 
three months  and then apply for a top up loan, when the rate would be reduced. When he 
went back to the branch in June 2020, he was told he would need to apply for a top up loan 
online  which he did and applied for a loan of £7,500. This was declined. He was now very 
stressed and worried about what happened  and on the effect on his credit score.
Santander said Mr M couldnt produce the email or letter which guaranteed him the lower 
interest rate. The loan approval and its rate were automatically generated, based on its 
scoring system. Mr M had accepted the loan terms. He could apply for another loan, but they 
couldnt say if it would be approved, nor could the interest rate be guaranteed.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator also discussed Mr Ms complaint with his 
daughter (as his representative). She thought that the loan offer was likely one which quoted 
a representative rate, not one that was guaranteed  it would be subject to Santanders 
checks. So, she couldnt say that Mr M definitely should have got the rate of 3%. But when 
Mr M later went back to the branch, he was told to go and reapply for a top up loan online  
and he went to his sons house to do that. Santander couldve suggested that he apply on 
the phone, and helped him with that, but didnt. Mr M was a vulnerable customer who 
preferred to do things face to face. As a result  Mr M applied for another loan of £7,500 (not 
£1,000  which Santander said they advised at the first meeting)  in addition to the original 
loan. As this would have meant Mr M would have had loans of well over £30,000, 
understandably, this was declined. There was therefore some miscommunication by 
Santander. She said Santander should remove the credit search for the second loan 
application from Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M disagreed and asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I will look at both important aspects of what happened here:
The offer of a preferential rate loan at 3%, and the meeting at the branch on January 
2020.
The meeting in the branch in June 2020 and the online application for a top up loan.
Offer of preferential rate loan and branch meeting  January 2020
Santander told us they stopped making guaranteed loan offers in November 2019. And 
these were only available online. They showed us the literature for this. But it says apply for 
your loan in one of our branches  so Im not certain abut Santanders comments about 
online only applications. The letter is headed New years resolution  could our Personal 
Loan help? So  Im persuaded thats what Mr M received and was responding to  even if 
he got it in November 2019. And it does say he could apply in the branch, so thats what he 
did. But equally, the letter says the rate was 3.1% APR representative on loans from £7500 
to £25000. And it also says, Credit is available subject to status and will involve a credit 
check. So  Santander didnt have to give Mr M a loan at 3.1%, and it was dependent on its 
checks. Theres one further point here  when Mr M later applied online for a top up in June 
2020  he applied for £7,500, which is the lower threshold amount quoted in the mailing  so 
that tends to confirm Mr M got the mailing and was responding to it.
But I think what happened next is important  he was told he could make some repayments 
to the agreed loan of £25,000 - and then apply for a top up of £1,000  and that might then 
give him a lower rate (but without any guarantees that would be the case). The member of 
staffs testimony says that also. And Mr Ms daughter was at the meeting and confirms that 
was what was said. But I find it hard to believe that after just a few payments to the loan (Mr 
M says she said three, the staff member implies four or five)  that a loan priced at 9.9% 
APR would reduce in rate to say 3.1% - thats just not a viable suggestion to make. So, Mr M 
was given false hope. He called Santander in May to ask for another meeting about this  so 
he was certainly thinking something would happen which would work in his favour.
Meeting in branch - June 2020
Mr M went to a meeting in the branch and met the same advisor. Testimonies vary slightly 
here. The branch advisor seems to indicate she tried the application in the branch, but the 
rate was the same. Mr M says the branch advisor told him he would have to make the 
application for a top up loan online. The advisor has left Santander so this cant be checked. 
Santander told us that top up loans could only be done on the phone or in branch.
Mr M went to his sons house and applied online for a loan of £7,500. Santander told us that 
was likely declined as it wouldve taken him over the limit of £25,000 for their personal loans. 
Mr M needed to ask for a top up loan of £1,000. Im not certain what the processes for that 
were  as the old loan wouldve needed to have been closed, as it was a fixed term, fixed 
rate loan. So, Mr M needed help and support to do that  and wasnt given any. For 
example, Santander couldve suggested that Mr Ms daughter be involved (she was at the 
first meeting)  and the advisor said in her testimony that she knew Mr M well, so might 
reasonably have been aware of his situation. But Im persuaded that Mr M was told to apply 
online  because it doesnt seem likely that an elderly and vulnerable customer who wasnt 
comfortable with using PCs would just do that without being told so. And because top up 
loans couldnt be arranged online, this was never going to give Mr M what he wanted.
The result was that Mr M  who was a vulnerable customer who was unfamiliar with online 
processes and applications - was left felling confused and stressed  and feels let down by 
Santander. Santander have told us that his credit score wouldnt be affected by the second application  there wasnt a credit search done as the loan was automatically declined 
because of its amount. But I would like Santander to check that for Mr M
Much of what was said at the two meetings must be interpreted as what might have been 
said - as I wasnt there. But Mr Ms daughter was at the first meeting and has corroborated 
Mr Ms version of events and has been consistent in arguing her points with us. And on the 
second meeting, I have had to take a view on what was likely to have been said based on 
probabilities.
I cant say that Santander were wrong in not giving Mr M a loan at a preferential rate of 3.1% 
for the reasons Ive given. But I think the advice and guidance given to him at the January 
2020 meeting was probably unrealistic and gave him false hope that he could get a lower 
rate. And  at the June 2020 meeting, he shouldve been given more support and guidance 
about how to apply for a top up loan  by applying in the branch or on the phone, as was 
Santanders process - as opposed to telling him to apply online.
So  my provisional decision, subject to any comments that either Mr M or Santander may 
have is that Santander should:
pay £150 to Mr M for distress and inconvenience.
write a letter of apology to Mr M for the misunderstanding that arose at the two 
meetings at the branch.
check, and confirm to Mr M that there has been no impact on his credit file as a result 
of the second loan application in June 2020.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr M accepted my findings, and so did Santander. Santander confirmed that there wasnt a 
credit search showing on Mr Ms records for the second loan application of £7,500.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr M and Santander agreed with my findings, I wont be departing from it in issuing 
my final decision - for the reasons given in the provisional decision.
(continued)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc must:pay £150 to Mr M for distress and inconvenience.
write a letter of apology to Mr M for the misunderstanding that arose at the two 
meetings at the branch.
check, and confirm to Mr M that there has been no impact on his credit file in respect 
of the June 2020 declined application. I note that Santander have done this already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman