DRN-3454084
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited gave him incorrect information after he made a 
claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C was involved in an incident and he made a claim on his policy. Aviva initially said his 
car was a total loss. But Mr C disputed this and provided more details about his cars 
damage and mileage. Aviva then agreed that the car was repairable. Aviva agreed that it 
had caused Mr C a shock and it offered him £50 compensation for this. But Mr C remained 
unhappy. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Aviva 
would have reached the conclusion that the car was repairable after further assessment by 
its engineers. He thought Aviva had caused Mr C upset only for a short time. And so he 
thought its offer of compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr C replied that he thought if he hadnt challenged Aviva then his car would have been 
written off. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva explained to Mr C that it used a computerised analytics tool to decide whether a car is 
repairable or not. And it also said that the tool reached the wrong outcome for Mr Cs car 
initially. But, when Mr Cs cars mileage and images of the damage was later inputted, the 
car was deemed to be repairable. And so Mr Cs car was taken for repair. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Aviva accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
Mr C was concerned about the behaviour of the insurance industry as a whole. But its not 
my role to consider that. Mr role is to consider Mr Cs particular complaint and whether Aviva 
has treated him fairly and reasonably.
Mr C thought if he had allowed his car to be collected after the initial call, then it wouldnt 
have been repaired. But Aviva explained to him that it would always have an engineer 
assess the car before deciding that it wasnt repairable. 
I can only look at actual losses rather than potential ones, and Mr Cs car has been taken for 
repairs, as he wished. So I think this reasonably restores his position. 
The impact of the error for Mr C was that he was caused stress unnecessarily and, from 
what I can see, had a garage look at his car. But the error was corrected on the same day. 
And so the impact on Mr C wasnt prolonged. 
I think Avivas offer of £50 compensation was in keeping with our published guidance for the 
level of impact experienced by Mr C. So I think Avivas response to Mr Cs complaint was fair 
and reasonable and I dont require Aviva to increase its offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman