DRN-3691140
The complaint
Mr L complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc has declined to refund a payment that he says 
he didnt make.
What happened
Mr L is disputing a £200 cash withdrawal on 8 January 2022. He says he lost his card over 
the weekend and that he hadnt written down or shared his personal identification number 
(PIN) with anyone. Mr L initially blocked his card in his banking app before calling Capital 
One to report the transaction as fraudulent.
Capital One investigated the matter and has declined the claim. It says Mr Ls genuine card 
and correct PIN were used for the transaction, and so it thinks the payment was genuine.
When Mr L complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
As Mr L didnt accept their findings, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint, Ill explain why.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Capital One has concluded that Mr L authorised the disputed payment and therefore held 
him liable for it. I think Capital One has acted fairly in reaching this conclusion for the 
following reasons:
Capital One has provided evidence to show the cards chip was read and that his PIN 
was entered correctly for this transaction. This means that Mr Ls genuine card was 
used by someone who knew Mr Ls secure PIN. It also shows that this transaction 
was correctly authenticated.
Mr L says he hasnt written down his PIN or shared it with anyone. Prior to the day of 
the disputed transaction, Mr Ls correct PIN hasnt been used with his card since 
October 2021. So, its unclear how an unknown third party would have obtained it, as 
they wouldnt have been able to see Mr L use it around the time his card went 
missing.
Capital One says the spending pattern isnt consistent with a fraudulently obtained 
card. Given there was a balance enquiry several hours earlier that day as well as 
before this transaction, and there were no attempts to make further withdrawals or 
payments, I think this is a reasonable conclusion to have reached. 
Mr L says he was in his hometown at the time of the disputed transaction. While this 
may be true, he would still be liable for the payment if hed allowed someone else to 
make it. And without another explanation for how a third party obtained his card and 
PIN, I dont think Capital One has acted unreasonably in concluding that he 
authorised the payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman