DRN-2739714
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him mixed messages about the closure of his 
business credit card account.
What happened
Mr H is a sole trader, and his business used to have a current account and a credit card 
account with HSBC. (This decision has been formally issued under his trading name, 
because that was the name on the accounts, but I will just be referring to the complainant as 
Mr H from now on.)
In early 2019, HSBC asked Mr H to provide some information to comply with its know your 
customer checks. He failed to provide the information, so HSBC told him it was closing both 
accounts, after a notice period of just over two months. However, HSBC subsequently sent 
Mr H letters which appeared to suggest that he could keep his credit card after all. Mr H also 
says that he was told the same thing in some phone calls. When it became apparent that he 
was going to lose the credit card after all, he complained, saying that what he had been told 
was inaccurate. He also said that the reason given to him for closing the credit card account 
was untrue.
Our investigator upheld this complaint, and recommended that HSBC pay Mr H £200. That 
investigator then left our Service, and Mr Hs complaint was re-assigned to a second 
investigator, who reconsidered this case and then endorsed the original opinion. HSBC did 
not agree that it should have to pay any compensation, arguing that it had made the correct 
position clear from the start. This case was therefore referred to me for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that HSBCs correspondence was misleading. While I acknowledge 
that HSBC did initially tell Mr H that the credit card account would be closed, I can see how 
he was confused later on. While I think that £200 compensation is at the high end of the 
scale for what happened, I dont think it is excessive such that I should interfere with it and 
reduce the award now. On balance, I am satisfied that £200 is fair. I will explain why.
Sensibly, no criticism has been made of HSBCs decision to close both accounts. This 
complaint is only about the correspondence and phone calls following the decision to close 
the credit card account.
I accept HSBCs explanation that these were template letters, but Mr H had no way of 
knowing that when he received them, and I can see why he was confused. I will summarise 
them briefly.
The first relevant letter is dated 24 May 2019, and it sets out the correct reason for why the 
accounts were both being closed. That is HSBCs best mitigation, but I dont think it affords 
HSBC a complete defence to this complaint.
On 9 August, which was one week after the accounts were closed, HSBC sent Mr H a letter 
telling him that his direct debit, which had been making the payments to his credit card 
account, had been cancelled. It went on to say: This means that youll now need to make 
manual payments to your credit card account. Please see the reverse of your monthly 
statement for details of how payments can be made. That was unhelpful, because it implied 
that Mr H could continue to repay his debt in monthly instalments, which was not the case. 
At this point he owed over £3,000.
On 18 September HSBC sent Mr H a default notice. This told him that he had failed to make 
his minimum payments. Not only was that not the reason his account had been closed, but 
Mr H had actually been continuing to make monthly payments to the account, so it was 
untrue.
On 1 October HSBC sent Mr H its first final response letter. This acknowledged that he was 
actually up to date with his monthly payments, and explained that HSBC had only sent him a 
letter about repayments because his direct debit had been cancelled. It then went on to ask 
him, again, to keep up to date with his repayments. But only eight days later, HSBC sent him 
a final demand requiring him to repay the full balance by 27 October. This said his account 
would be defaulted and reported to the credit reference agencies if he did not pay the full 
outstanding debt by then. On the same date (9 October), HSBC sent him a letter which said 
he had missed some payments, which was not true. So these letters contradicted each 
other, contained inaccurate information, and taken together they were confusing.
On 18 October, HSBC sent a second final response letter which set out the correct position. 
It repeated that it was closing Mr Hs account. It again recognised that he had kept up to 
date with his payments, and explained that the final demand was just part of the account 
closing process. It reiterated that the whole balance was due by 27 October.
The content of that letter was repeated in another letter dated 2 December, which was 
written in the same terms except that by then 27 October was in the past. Mr H says he was 
confused by that letter. I accept that it confused him, but I dont think he should have been 
confused by it, and so I dont uphold his complaint about that letter. I think that by then, 
HSBC had done enough to set him straight.
There is a dispute about what was said to Mr H on the phone. HSBC has been unable to 
provide the call recordings, so the only direct evidence about this subject is Mr Hs own 
recollection of the calls, which he told us before he knew that the call recordings were 
unavailable, and which is not contradicted by HSBCs evidence. There is also the 
correspondence itself, which lends support to the credibility of Mr Hs testimony about the 
calls. On the balance of probabilities, I accept Mr Hs evidence about what he was told on 
the phone. But even without the phone calls, I think that the correspondence is misleading 
enough on its own, that I could still have upheld this complaint just on the strength of these 
letters.
Putting things right
I have kept in mind that the purpose of compensation is not to punish the bank for its errors, 
but only to serve as redress for the impact. Mr H says that this matter has caused him 
stress, and I accept that that is true. As Ive said, I think that £200 is fair compensation.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr H £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman