DRN-4018524
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C have complained that Clydesdale Bank Plc unfairly declined their request to 
port (transfer) their mortgage interest rate product onto a new mortgage when they were 
moving home. Mrs C and Mr C repaid their Clydesdale mortgage, incurring an early 
repayment charge (ERC) which they want Clydesdale to reimburse.
Mrs C has dealt with the complaint throughout on behalf of both parties.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mrs C and Mr C being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In September 2016 Mrs C and Mr C took out a mortgage with Clydesdale.  They re-arranged 
this onto a new interest rate product in June 2021. The product transfer document shows 
they borrowed just over £840,000 over a term of 11 years 2 months on an interest-only 
basis. Their repayment vehicle is stated on the mortgage offer to be a sale of the mortgaged 
property. The mortgage was on a fixed interest rate until 30 April 2023. If the mortgage was 
repaid before then, either in whole or partly, an ERC would be payable. Up to 10% of the 
capital balance could be repaid each year without incurring an ERC.
In December 2021 Mrs C and Mr C wanted to move house and applied to port the mortgage 
interest rate product onto a new mortgage on another property. Theyd sold their current 
property for £2.2 million. After paying off the mortgage and other expenses, theyd have had 
about £1.3 million net proceeds of sale. 
Mrs C and Mr C were looking to buy another property. I will refer to this property as 40MS. 
The application form states that Mrs C and Mr C wanted to buy 40MS for £1.2 million, 
porting £600,000 of their current mortgage product, and using £600,000 from the proceeds 
of sale of their current property for the deposit, so a 50% loan-to-value ratio (LTV). A 
mortgage illustration was issued on 13 December 2021 for a potential port of £600,000.
I note 40MS is a Grade II listed house, and sits on a large plot, with various outbuildings and 
stables. Mrs C and Mr C told Clydesdale they intended to use the balance of the net 
proceeds of sale to refurbish the house. The mortgage would be paid from the income Mrs C 
earned from her business. Mr C is stated on the application form to be unemployed.
The repayment strategy given on the application form was that Mrs C and Mr C intended to 
downsize to the outbuildings that [they] intend to convert on the land  beside the 
residential purchase. Hence [they] intend to sell the residential property for £1.2 million and 
release the £600K and this will be sufficient to then reimburse the outbuildings. (This would, 
of course, require the property title to be split, if Mrs C and Mr C were intending to keep the 
outbuildings and sell only the house.) 
Clydesdale declined the application on the basis of affordability. Clydesdale was also 
concerned that the amount of work that Mrs C and Mr C were intending to carry out was far 
more than general refurbishment. As a result, the bank considered this to be a development 
project, which was outside its criteria for residential lending. Clydesdale also noted that the 
intended repayment vehicle was also a development project. 
Clydesdale wasnt able to agree to port the mortgage interest rate product. As a result, the 
mortgage was redeemed in December 2021, and an ERC of just over £25,000 was paid.
On 28 March 2022 Mrs C complained to Clydesdale, asking for a refund of the ERC. In its 
final response letter, Clydesdale explained that the application had failed its lending criteria, 
and that, after reviewing this, the bank wasnt able to change the outcome. However, as a 
gesture of goodwill Clydesdale agreed to reimburse 10% of the ERC, which amounted to 
£2,520.18.
Unhappy with Clydesdales response, Mrs C and Mr C brought their complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened. He thought the complaint should be upheld. 
This was because he thought Clydesdale should have allowed the mortgage to be ported at 
the same LTV as the LTV on the mortgaged property (so about 38%, which would be 
£243,200). He noted Clydesdale had never explained to Mrs C and Mr C that the mortgage 
could be ported at the same LTV, and so they werent able to make an informed choice 
about whether or not to go ahead with their purchase on that basis.
The investigator thought Clydesdale should reimburse Mrs C and Mr C the difference in ERC 
theyd have paid if theyd ported a mortgage of £243,000.
Mrs C replied to say that she believes she is entitled to a full refund of the entire ERC. Mrs C 
also said that Clydesdale discriminated against her because she is self-employed and that it 
is her income alone that is used for mortgage purposes. Mrs C said she didnt think a man 
would have been asked the same questions about his wifes income as she was asked 
about Mr Cs income.
Mrs C also said that the new property they had wanted to buy was £640,000, and they had 
wanted to reduce the mortgage to £416,000, at a 65% LTV. Theyd intended to downsize to 
the new property, pay cash for their next home and buy a second property in London, which 
is why they wanted to port the mortgage. Mrs C said that the property needed renovating. 
The intention was to renovate this and then either rent it out, sell it or potentially use it 
themselves. But because they werent able to port the mortgage, it wasnt possible to buy 
the property. Theyd have invested £225,000 in the purchase, and could have done so and 
still kept over £1 million in the bank. Mrs C doesnt therefore understand Clydesdales 
decision.
Clydesdale didnt agree with the investigators findings, reiterating its concerns about 
affordability, and that the developmental purpose of the loan was outside lending criteria.
Provisional decision and responses: On 9 January 2023 I issued a provisional decision in 
which I reached the following conclusions.
First, its important to note that there appears to be a discrepancy in the evidence. 
The application presented to Clydesdale in December 2021 was for a port of 
£600,000 at a 50% LTV onto the new property 40MS, that they were purchasing for 
£1.2 million. That is the application Clydesdale considered and rejected.However, Mrs C told us that the purchase price was £640,000, with a port of 
£416,000 at a 65% LTV. That cannot have been for 40MS, because the sale 
brochure for that property (still available online) shows it to have been marketed in 
excess of £1.3 million, and it appears that Mrs C and Mr C had agreed to buy it for 
£1.2 million. There is no application in Clydesdales file for a port of £416,000 on a 
purchase of £640,000, nor any other documentation to support Mrs Cs contention 
that the application was for this amount.
I also note that the broker referred to transitional provisions in relation to porting in 
an email to Mrs C. There are regulations in place that have flowed from the FCAs 
Mortgage Market Review (MMR) which took place after the financial crash in 2008. 
This has led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential 
mortgages are regulated. MMR regulations have brought about requirements for 
stricter lending assessments, aimed at protecting consumers and encouraging 
mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to 
their mortgages might have difficulties with this if they had passed tests under the old 
rules but wouldnt under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules to address this. 
The rules are contained in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB).
MCOB says a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability assessment if a 
borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is no additional 
borrowing (other than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the mortgage 
that is material to affordability.
There are also transitional arrangements which say that a lender need not carry out 
an affordability assessment if (amongst other things) the borrower has an existing 
mortgage taken out before 26 April 2014, and is applying to vary that mortgage or 
replace it with a new one.   
Mrs C and Mr Cs mortgage was taken out after 26 April 2014, and so is not subject 
to the transitional provisions. As a result, Im satisfied Clydesdale was entitled to 
carry out an affordability assessment, notwithstanding that the mortgage requested 
was lower than the existing mortgage. 
This is because there was a material change to affordability, in that Clydesdale was 
being asked to consider an application for a LTV of 50%. Although the mortgage had 
(in 2016) been at a 65% LTV, by December 2021 it was at a 38% LTV. If Clydesdale 
was to agree to increase this to 50%, there was more risk to the bank in the event of 
default.
Clydesdale has also explained that the reason why it wasnt able to proceed with the 
application was due to a substantial reduction in Mrs Cs income, which was also a 
change that was material to affordability. On the application for the mortgage in 2016 
Mrs Cs gross income was stated to be approximately £148,500 per annum. 
But by the time of the application in December 2021, Mrs Cs gross income had 
reduced to about £33,500. Mrs C has explained that her business was affected by 
the pandemic, and clarified that she was reinventing the business, and writing a 
book. The business had received bounce-back finance from the government, which 
Ms C was using to redevelop her business. 
However, Clydesdale was, I find, justified in having concerns about the level of 
income, as this was insufficient to service the requested mortgage of £600,000. Im also satisfied Clydesdale was allowed to ask Mrs C about Mr Cs income. I 
appreciate Mrs C considers this to be intrusive and thinks that it was discriminatory. 
Her argument is that the bank would not ask a man about his wifes income on a 
mortgage application. I dont agree; where one party is taking the lead on a mortgage 
application (and it appears Mrs C was the party dealing with Clydesdale here), the 
lender will ask about the finances of all applicants. The banks enquiries would be the 
same if a man had been making the application on behalf of himself and his wife or 
partner.
The investigator said that Clydesdale could have offered a mortgage at a 38% LTV, 
which would have meant that the bank could have lent Mrs C and Mr C about 
£243,000, based on a purchase price of £640,000 (which is what Mrs C told the 
investigator was the intended purchase price). But, as noted above, that isnt the 
application Clydesdale was asked to consider. The application was for 40MS at 
£1.2 million, and a 38% LTV would have been £456,000. In response to the 
investigator, Clydesdale said that a mortgage of £243,000 wouldnt have met its 
affordability criteria, so I am satisfied a mortgage of £456,000 wouldnt have been 
affordable either.
The increase in LTV for the application on 40MS meant that, in addition to the 
concerns around affordability, there was an increase in risk to Clydesdale. The bank 
also had concerns about the amount of work Mrs C and Mr C were intending to do on 
the property, and about the stated repayment strategy of moving into outbuildings, 
selling 40MS (which would, by that time, have been refurbished), paying off the 
£600,000 mortgage and using the proceeds of sale to renovate the outbuildings. (I 
note here that if the outbuildings formed part of the legal title to 40MS, they could not 
be retained by Mrs C and Mr C if they sold 40MS, without splitting the title.)
In all the circumstances, therefore, based on the available evidence, I am not 
persuaded Clydesdale acted unfairly or unreasonably when it declined the 
application. There is nothing in Clydesdales documentation to suggest Mrs C or 
Mr C ever applied for a mortgage of £456,000 on a purchase at £640,000. On the 
basis of the application for a mortgage of £600,000 for a purchase of £1.2 million, Im 
unable to find Clydesdale has done anything wrong when it rejected this application. 
The concerns about affordability were legitimate, the risk to the bank was increasing 
due to a higher LTV and the repayment strategy was unsuitable.
Mrs C responded to say that Clydesdale had funded refurbishment projects she and Mr C 
had undertaken in the past, including the property they were selling.  Mrs C also said that 
there were two separate conversations with Clydesdale; the first was relating to a property in 
London that theyd wanted to purchase with a port of 65% LTV, but Clydesdale declined this. 
After speaking to the mortgage broker, he said leave it with me, I will see if there is anything 
I can do..
Clydesdale was asked for its comments on this. The bank clarified that there had been only 
one mortgage application, for a loan of £600,000. The bank noted that, when requesting a 
redemption figure, on 7 December 2021 Mrs C and Mr Cs solicitors had confirmed that 
completion of the sale was on 17 December 2021. 
The letter said Our clients have asked us to inform you that they believe the outstanding 
mortgage is in the region of £840K and they borrowed 65% LTV. They plan on porting the 
mortgage and borrowing £416,000 in connection with the proposed purchase of a flat in 
London.However, Clydesdale says that by the time the bank was asked to consider the application, 
Mrs C and Mr C had changed their minds about the property they wanted to buy. Clydesdale 
also provided call recordings it had been able to retrieve from its system.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive reviewed the complaint from the outset, Ive revisited my provisional decision 
and Ive considered the further points made by Mrs C and Clydesdale.
Ive listened to the various telephone calls between Mrs C and Clydesdale which the bank 
has now provided. On 9 December 2021 there was a call to set up an appointment with a 
mortgage adviser. Mrs C seemed surprised that she would need to go through an application 
process, but Im satisfied that this is standard industry practice.
Initially Mrs C talked about buying the property in London. She was made aware that shed 
need to have her accounts and financial information to hand when she spoke to the 
mortgage adviser. Mrs C explained that the sale of their current home was about to 
complete, and she and Mr C were going to be renting a property. Theyd initially wanted to 
buy the rented property but it transpired that the landlord didnt have title and so they werent 
able to go ahead with that. 
The call with the mortgage adviser took place on 13 December 2021. At the start of the call 
Mrs C explained that the initial plan of buying the property in London had changed, because 
theyd seen 40MS and decided to go with that property instead. Mrs C also explained that 
this was going to be a large project, involving renovating half the property, selling that after 
splitting the title, and then renovating the other half of the property. This was the application 
Clydesdale was asked to consider, with the increased LTV as detailed in the provisional 
decision.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that there was no application to port to a London flat on a 
like-for-like basis. In addition, the LTV Clydesdale was prepared to consider if there was to 
be a like-for-like port was not the LTV at the time the mortgage was originally taken out; it 
was the LTV at the time of the request to port. As I explained above, the new mortgage on 
40MS was for an increased LTV, which came with an increased risk to Clydesdale. 
Given this, it was reasonable for the bank to consider affordability. Because Mrs Cs income 
had dwindled substantially as a result of the pandemic, and because Mrs C had decided to 
change her business model and write a book, Im satisfied the bank was justified in its 
concerns about affordability.
Clydesdale also had concerns about the amount of work that Mrs C and Mr C intended to 
carry out on 40MS, as this appeared to be more than simply home improvements. The bank 
thought that it was being asked to provide residential mortgage funding for what was 
essentially property development. I note that during one call with Clydesdale Mrs C 
explained that Mr C worked exclusively on renovating property, which they would then sell 
and move on to the next project. Mrs C also said how successful she and Mr C had been at 
this, and said this is almost our business now. 
So I think that, taking into account that Mrs C and Mr C were intending to carry out 
substantial work over and above general home improvements on part of 40MS before splitting the title and selling half the property, the banks concerns about being asked to fund 
property development  particularly given the amount of equity Mrs C and Mr C were 
intending to retain from their sale  were reasonable and justified.
It is clear from the phone calls after the application was declined that Mrs C was upset and 
angry that Clydesdale wouldnt agree the application. But in all the circumstances, and for all 
the reasons given in my provisional decision, and after reconsidering the matter following the 
parties responses to that provisional decision, Im unable to find that Clydesdale has done 
anything wrong. There is therefore no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to order 
Clydesdale to refund the ERC Mrs C and Mr C paid on redeeming their mortgage with 
Clydesdale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman