DRN-2879561
The complaint
Mr W has complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) damaged his 
car when they provided him with help after he claimed on his roadside assistance policy. 
Ive referred to UKI throughout this decision for ease, although Mr W actually dealt with UKIs 
roadside assistance company.
What happened
Mr Ws car wouldnt start on 20 April 2020, so he called UKI for assistance. They sent out a 
roadside recovery man. He couldnt get the car started, so he arranged for a technician to 
come and check the car. In the meantime, Mrs W was able to start the car, so Mr W called 
UKI to cancel the technician. UKI said it would be best for the technician to come and check 
the car anyway, so Mr W agreed to let this happen. The technician came later the same day. 
He told Mr W hed checked the car and it was fine and left. The next morning Mr W couldnt 
start the car. He consulted an independent mechanic and eventually called UKI again on 24 
April. UKI sent out another technician, but he couldnt start the car. Mr W eventually 
arranged for the car to go to a specialist garage. They said there was a problem with the 
electrics and they had to carry out repairs which cost over £1,000. 
Mr W thought the technician who visited on 20 April carried out some sort of reset and this 
caused the damage to the electrical system of his car. He complained to UKI. They didnt 
deal with his complaint very well and paid Mr W £100 in compensation for this, but they 
wouldnt accept their technician caused the damage to his car. 
Mr W complained to us. One of our investigators originally upheld his complaint. This was 
because he felt it was most likely that something UKIs technician did caused the damage to 
Mr Ws car. But when UKI came back with some further evidence, he changed his mind and 
decided the new evidence meant it was unlikely UKIs technician caused the problem. And 
he rejected Mr Ws complaint. 
Mr W asked for an ombudsmans decision and the case was referred to me. Ive spoken to 
him and clarified the sequence of events surrounding the damage to his car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr W is convinced that something UKIs technician did on 20 April caused the 
problem with his car, but I dont think the evidence in support of this argument is strong 
enough for me to be satisfied this is what happened. 
Although Mr W has said the technician told him hed done a software reset. And it does 
seem UKI later confirmed hed done some sort of reset, UKIs notes just say he boosted the 
battery. This usually involves surge protection and would not involve a software reset. There 
is a photograph showing the car running linked to the technicians report of 20 April. This 
suggests to me that the car was running before he left. It wouldnt make sense for him to 
have taken this photograph before he started checking the car, although I appreciate it is 
possible he could have done. But I think it is most likely that he took it after hed finished 
looking at the car to show it was running at this point. 
The fact the next day the car wouldnt start again suggests to me there was some sort of 
intermittent fault, as the car wouldnt start when the roadside recovery man attended 
originally, but then did start when Mrs W tried it shortly after hed left.
I appreciate a specialist garage has said that there was a problem with the Footwell Module 
and this can be caused by incorrect powering or charging. But from what UKI have said it 
can also be caused by low voltage on the battery or it is something that can just go wrong. I 
appreciate Mr W had a further problem with the electric window and this could be linked to 
the original problem. But this doesnt necessarily show that something UKIs technician did 
caused a problem with Mr Ws car. Particularly, as UKI were originally called because the 
car wouldnt start and the roadside recovery man couldnt start it. 
I am also mindful of the fact that after the second technician visited from UKI, Mr W arranged 
for an independent mechanic to take his car away to check it. The mechanic has said he 
bump started the car to drive it at certain points in the journey to his garage and on his way 
to deliver it back to Mr W. And UKIs job sheets suggest he drove it 13 miles in taking the car 
to his garage and delivering it back. And Mr W also arranged for the mechanic to take the 
car to the specialist garage. And the invoice Mr W has provided from this garage suggests 
the car was driven a further 28 miles in the period between it being delivered back to Mr W 
and it arriving at the specialist garage. Its obviously difficult to know what the mechanic did 
and I am not suggesting he caused any damage. But the extra mileage and how the car was 
started to enable it to be driven makes it much more difficult for me to conclude it was most 
likely to be something UKIs technician did that caused the problem with Mr Ws car.  
In summary, I dont know what caused the problem with Mr Ws car. It seems to me it could 
have been an intermittent fault, which eventually became permanent or something someone 
did in an attempt to start the car. But I just dont think theres sufficient evidence for me to 
conclude it was something UKIs technician did that caused the problem. Therefore, I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable for me to uphold Mr Ws complaint and make UKI cover 
the cost of the repairs to his car. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman