DRN-3459895
The complaint
Mr P complains about U K Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under his home insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr P has a home insurance policy underwritten by UKI, which covers his buildings and 
contents amongst other things.
He made a claim in June 2021 after a fire in the house next door caused damage to his 
property.
Mr P says he was surprised to be told about the limits on his cover. Particularly those 
relating to his contents  limited to £50,000 cover  and to alternative accommodation costs 
 limited to £40,000.
He was concerned that neither would be enough to cover his losses and/or accommodation 
costs.
He says that hes been paying a premium which is too high given the cover limits and that he 
could have paid a much lower premium if hed looked for cover on-line (including from UKI).
He says the high premiums are partly due to the fact there was a subsidence claim relating 
to his property before he bought it  and he was misled about what effect that might have.
And he says he was given different information about the cover he had on the different 
occasions he rang UKI to make enquiries.
Mr P complained to UKI but they didnt uphold his complaint. They said the cover limits were 
clear when the policy was sold to Mr P and when it was renewed. They said the part of the 
premium relating to buildings cover had been coming down each year since the subsidence 
claim. 
They agreed there had been some confusion in one phone call about how the policy limits 
relating to contents and personal possessions applied to Mr Ps claim, but this was after 
Mr P had made the claim and had no effect at all on either the claim itself or Mr Ps original 
decision to purchase the policy and/or to renew it.
Mr P wasnt happy with this outcome, so he brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think UKI had done anything wrong when it came to the limits on 
cover or the premiums charged. 
But she said there was some confusion in the information provided to Mr P about the 
interaction between contents and personal possessions cover limits, as UKI had admitted. 
And there were some delays and lack of urgency on UKIs part when it came to the 
arrangements for alternative accommodation. 
And for those reasons she suggested UKI should pay £250 compensation to Mr P for his 
trouble and upset.
UKI disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should be very clear about one thing from the outset. Mr P received UKIs final response to 
his complaint on 14 July 2021 (just over a month after the fire which led to the claim). He 
brought his complaint to us on 10 August 2021.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute resolution rules - which govern the way our 
service operates  say that we cant look into a complaint (unless the business consents) if 
the financial business concerned hasnt already had a chance to look into the complaint 
themselves. 
I understand that Mr P believes he might have some issues with the eventual settlement of 
the contents claim  which hadnt been settled at the time the original complaint was brought 
and so wasnt an issue at that point. 
If Mr P wishes to make a further complaint about UKIs actions after 14 July 2021, he can 
make another complaint to UKI - and then to us, if he isnt satisfied with UKIs response.
The important point to make for now, is that in this decision I can only look only at what 
happened up to 14 July 2021.
I agree with our investigator that UKI did nothing wrong in terms of the sale and renewal of 
the policy or in the calculation of the premiums. Ill explain why.
The limits on cover in Mr Ps policy relating to contents and to alternative accommodation 
are clearly set out in the policy documents sent to Mr P when he bought the policy and on 
each occasion that he renewed it. 
And on each occasion, Mr P was very clearly reminded that he should check the information 
hed provided and ensure that the cover he was buying was suitable and sufficient for his 
needs.
So, Im satisfied UKI did everything they possibly could to ensure Mr P was aware of the 
cover hed bought. 
We also have several recordings of calls Mr P made to UKI at the point of renewal in one 
particular year. Mr P and/or his wife made at least four calls to UKI before he renewed the 
policy. He was essentially looking for a reduction in the premium to be charged.
Mr P asks the same or very similar questions in each of those calls  usually aimed at 
getting the price reduced. He says on two of the calls that a valuable item (or items) is 
mistakenly recorded twice. Its explained to Mr P that its recorded under both contents and 
personal possessions, so its covered if damaged or lost at home and outside the home. He 
asks on three occasions what home emergency cover is and why he might need it.
More importantly perhaps, on each call hes reminded to check the cover is sufficient for his 
needs and hes clearly asked whether theres anything in the information he provided thats inaccurate or has changed since the took out the policy or last renewed it.
So, again, Im satisfied that UKI did everything they reasonably could be expected to do to 
ensure Mr P was aware of the cover he had and that it met his current needs. 
Weve also seen the calculations of Mr Ps premium over the years hes had the policy. Its 
no surprise that the premiums are affected by the previous subsidence claim at the property 
(before Mr P owned it). And I can see from the annual calculations that the buildings element 
of the premium has reduced each year. Again, this is as one might expect as the subsidence 
claim recedes into the past.
UKI are entitled to decide what factors they take into account when setting their premiums. 
Its clear that Mr Ps premiums have been calculated using the usual algorithm. Hes not 
been treated differently to any other customer or in any way singled out for unfair treatment.
Mr P says he could have bought insurance at a much cheaper price (including from UKI as a 
new customer), but he also says that when he checked prices on-line he didnt include any 
information about the previous subsidence claim. So, the fact he found cheaper prices is 
unsurprising  and doesnt indicate UKI were treating him in any way unfairly.
Mr P could have tested the market using the actual information hed have been required to 
disclose  including the previous subsidence claim. And he could have used a different 
insurer if their prices had been cheaper and/or the cover more extensive. 
Mr P says he didnt because he was told hed have to stay with UKI because theyd covered 
the previous owners subsidence claim. Thats not strictly true  and in any case Mr P 
doesnt allege that he was told this by UKI. It appears from what Mr P told UKI that the 
misleading information came from the previous owner of the property.
So, Im satisfied UKI have not treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably in the way theyve set 
the premium for his policy.
Our investigator nonetheless upheld the complaint on the basis that there was some 
confusion in one call between Mr P and UKI about how the policy limits for contents and 
personal possessions interacted - and because there were delays around the arrangement 
of alternative accommodation.
I dont think the confusion in the phone call accounted for a large part of £250 compensation 
our investigator suggested. In any case, as UKI said in their final response to Mr P, that call 
came after the policy had been bought and renewed (several times) and after the claim. It 
had no impact on the claim. The confusion was soon resolved. And it certainly had no 
bearing on Mr Ps decisions about whether to take the cover and/or renew it - or his thinking 
about how much cover he needed.
I had my doubts about the supposed delays in sorting the alternative accommodation. It 
seems to me that Mr P and his family were in alternative accommodation reasonably quickly. 
And that UKI acted swiftly to issue a one-off lump sum payment at the outset so that Mr P 
could sign up for a six-month lease on a property hed found.
Rather than issue a provisional decision, to allow further comment or evidence to be 
provided by either party, I asked both parties for their views on this particular issue. I took 
that course of action because this is a relatively small element of the complaint  which is 
mainly about the sale and pricing of the policy and the limits included in it. And because I 
wanted the parties comments to specifically address that particular issue, which was the 
only point on which I disagreed with our investigators view.UKI responded and pointed out the alternative accommodation was sorted out reasonably 
quickly  and according to the wishes of Mr P and his family, who had sourced the property 
they wished to rent. They also said it wasnt clear that alternative accommodation was 
justified in this case given that all services at the property were unaffected by the fire, but 
theyd agreed it essentially as a result of giving their customer the benefit of the doubt.
I have to say, once UKI had agreed it, no matter why or how, they were under an obligation 
to provide alternative accommodation quickly and effectively.
However, Mr P responded to say hed never had an issue with the speed at which the 
payment for alternative accommodation was provided. 
Taking all of that into account, Im not going to require UKI to make any compensation 
payment to Mr P. The payment our investigator envisaged isnt justified on the basis of the 
further enquiries weve made about the alternative accommodation. And the slightly 
confused call (made after the claim and long after Mr Ps purchase and renewal of the 
policy) is adequately covered, in my opinion, by the apology UKI made to Mr P in their final 
response to his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman