DRN-2224382
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy about the way Highway Insurance Company Limiteds agent handled his 
claim for a damaged windscreen under his motor insurance policy. For the sake of ease of 
reading I will refer to Highways agent as A.
What happened
Mr C contacted A on 8 July 2019 to say he had a damaged windscreen. He was told the
replacement windscreen would be fitted at a local dealership on 15 July. He told A he had a
holiday booked and paid for and needed his car on 16 July for this. He took his car to the
main dealer on 13 July, so it was there for the windscreen to be fitted on 15 July. He was
later advised the windscreen that had been ordered had arrived damaged and that another
would have to be ordered. And he was told that because of his holiday this could not be
fitted until 22 July. Mr C explained again to A that he needed his car roadworthy on 16 July
and they told him they had a suitable windscreen at their depot just over an hours drive from
the dealership, which they thought they could get there for fitting first thing on the morning of
15 July.
Mr C was a little concerned about how the event seemed to be unfolding, so he asked the
dealership if they might be able to help. They told him they could order a windscreen for him
and carry out the replacement on 15 July if needed. But just after 12pm A called Mr C and
told him they could get the windscreen from their depot to the dealership and fit on 16 July.
In view of this Mr C didnt order a new windscreen through the dealership. Mr C accepted
the windscreen being fitted on 16 July on the basis he could delay his departure for his 
holiday until midday.
Mr C told the dealership what had been arranged. And they then told him the process for
fitting the windscreen and calibrating it meant his car would not be ready until much later in
the day on 16 July. This meant delaying his holiday until midday was not an option. And by
this time it was too late to get the dealership to order a windscreen in time for it to be fitted
on 15 July.
A suggested to Mr C it was alright for him to drive his car with a cracked windscreen, but Mr
C found out from the dealership this wasnt the case and he should not be driving it.
In the end Mr C felt he had no option but to hire a car and go on his holiday. He then ordered
the windscreen from the dealership, so it was fitted in time for his return. Mr C complained to
Highway and asked them to cover his hire car costs. They agreed to waive the £75 excess in
view of the problems hed had, but they wouldnt cover his hire car costs and explained why
these werent covered under his policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 August 2020 in which I said that because As failings 
led to Mr C having no real option but to hire a car so he could go on his holiday, Highway 
should pay his hire charges plus interest. I also said that because Highway had waived his 
£75 excess it had done enough to compensate him for distress and inconvenience.
 
I gave both parties a month to come back with any further comments. Highway havent come 
back. Mr C has come back to say hes happy with my provisional decision in principle, but 
that he did end up paying a £100 excess, as it was deducted when Highway reimbursed 
what he paid his dealership for the replacement windscreen. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Highway havent responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to alter my view 
that they should cover Mr Cs hire car costs. This is because if A had dealt with the matter 
properly and explained to Mr C it would take six hours to fit and calibrate his new windscreen 
he would have been able to get his dealership to order one and do it the day before he 
needed to go on his holiday. So, I think it was As fault he had to hire a car instead and this 
means Highway should cover this cost. 
I hadnt appreciated Highway deducted a £100 excess when they reimbursed Mr C for his 
new windscreen. This seems very odd, as theyd agree to waive his excess in light of the 
problems Mr C had had. And it seems whoever agreed this didnt let the claim settlement 
team know. So I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for Highway to pay Mr C a further 
£100 to cover his excess as compensation for distress and inconvenience. I appreciate this 
is more than the £75 I suggested in my provisional decision, but Mr C only had to pay an 
excess, as he was left with no real option other than to get his dealership to fit the 
windscreen.
 
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, Ive decided Highway 
should cover Mr Cs hire costs plus interest and reimburse his excess to put things right.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require Highway Insurance Company Limited to reimburse Mr 
Cs hire costs, which were £332.77, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date he 
paid these to the date they pay him this amount1. I also require Highway Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr C a further £100 to reimburse his excess.
Highway Insurance Company Limited should do this within 28 days of us telling it Mr C has 
accepted my final decision. If they pay later than this they should add simple interest to the 
£100 reimbursement for the excess as well at a rate of 8% per year simple, from the date of 
my decision to the date it makes payment. 
1 If Highway considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mr C how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr C a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman