DRN-2815553
The complaint
Mr A complains RAC Financial Services Ltd didnt include home start, and free battery 
replacement, in his roadside assistance policy when they should have.
What happened
In March 2021 I issued my provisional decision. In it, I set out what had happened, and what 
I thought about that.
Mr A bought a car, and alongside this bought an RAC warranty which included breakdown 
cover in it  but didnt include home cover, or battery cover. He says he joined as a new 
member, so as part of his paid package he believed these elements should be included in 
the cover he was provided. He asked RAC to add them to his membership, and when they 
wouldnt, he then raised a complaint.
RAC said the home and battery cover were only included when someone had a paid 
membership. RAC explained Mr As membership was complimentary when he bought a new 
vehicle. They provided the battery terms to Mr A which said the free battery offer cant be 
used in conjunction with any other offer. And explained they couldnt get the home start 
terms because they needed to be in the office for this which they currently werent  but the 
same restrictions on terms applied. Overall then, they didnt agree to add the covers as they 
didnt think Mr As membership met the relevant terms of the offers. 
Mr A wasnt happy with this, so asked us to look into things. He reiterated his points that 
home cover is stated as standard on RACs website. And that the website also said new 
members, which he was, would get the battery cover too. Mr A said despite complaining to 
RAC about this, theyve failed to provide any evidence of what theyve said to him.
So, he asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so but found that Mr A would 
only be eligible for the home cover, and battery cover, if hed paid for the policy itself. And he 
found that Mr A had free cover included with the purchase of a car. So, he didnt recommend 
RAC added these two elements of cover to his policy.
Mr A didnt agree though. In summary, he said:
His cover wasnt free, he paid £300 for a warranty package with his new car, of which 
part of it was paid membership to RACs breakdown cover.
The missing home and battery cover have been referred to as offers, but as hes said 
multiple times the website said the battery cover was free for all new members. He 
said it cant be excluded from his policy because of the terms that say it cant be used 
in conjunction with any other offers.
He also said the same applies to the home cover, it says very clearly on the website 
its available to all members who get it by default.
Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the first and most important question to consider in this complaint is the status of 
Mr As membership with RAC. If it was indeed a paid membership as hes said, then some of 
his points may be accurate, but, if based on the information Ive got I determine it wasnt a 
paid membership  then overall it would seem RAC have acted correctly.
I felt I needed a bit more information to determine this, so I asked our investigator to speak 
to RAC and Mr A to get this. One of the pieces of information RAC provided was their 
introduction letter to Mr A. This says, in the first line, Welcome to your 12 months 
complimentary breakdown cover and the remainder of the letter talks about the cover being 
free. So, RAC have certainly treated Mr As cover as complimentary.
I also asked Mr A for evidence to demonstrate hed paid for the membership. Now generally 
here Id expect to be provided with a receipt, invoice or some other evidence to demonstrate 
Mr A has actually paid money towards the membership itself. 
The receipt Mr A has provided says the £300 cost is for Platinum Plus Maintenance & 
Repair. And the terms and conditions Mr A has provided say Labour and parts costs for 
included parts in the event of a breakdown which immobilises the vehicle, up to the repair 
value selected at time of Application and subject to the Maintenance and Repair Conditions.
So, I do see where Mr A is coming from. Its mentioned as part of the terms and conditions 
for the policy. Its not set out separately that its a different policy, theres no mention in what 
Mr A has provided to say its a free policy.
With that in mind, its not clear to me at this point why the home and battery covers wouldnt 
have been included in Mr As policy. I say that because theres no specific exclusion in the 
terms RAC have quoted for the battery cover  which theyve also said applies to the home 
cover  to exclude Mr As situation. Theyve not been able to provide terms for the home 
cover due to the current situation.
Overall then, its possible Mr A may be correct  and RAC should have added these covers 
to his policy. But, Im not sure I actually need to decide this for reasons Ill go on to explain.
I also wanted to understand if Mr A had made any claims, or attempted to make any claims, 
under the home or battery elements of the policy. RAC said Mr A hadnt  and he confirmed 
that.
One of the things I need to consider is whether someone has lost out financially as a result 
of the businesses actions. Here, RAC didnt offer cover which, as Ive said above, potentially 
they should have. But Mr A never made a claim on the policy  or from the information I 
have needed to try and make a claim. So, I cant reasonably say hes lost out by these 
covers not having been added to his policy.
Mr As 12-month membership ended in February 2021. So, overall then, I cant see a 
scenario in which Mr A has lost out  even if RAC have made an error here which, as Ive 
said above, I dont think I need to decide.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr A replied and said he didnt accept my provisional decision. He made a number of points, 
which Ive summarised in my own words:Mr A had concerns with me repeating what RAC had said  when I said RAC 
explained Mr As membership was complimentary. He wanted to make it clear the 
car dealer doesnt give complimentary cover and its only provided as part of the 
warranty package.
Mr A wanted it on record he disputed the findings our investigator came to.
In relation to me saying the welcome letter talks about the cover being free, and 
thats how theyve treated his cover  Mr A has said they did treat his cover as being 
provided as free. But, this is disputed and multiple errors in a letter doesnt mean its 
correct.
I said RAC hadnt been able to provide the cover for home start due to the current 
situation. Mr A disputes its due to the current situation and says its because theyve 
never been on the website. Hes asked me to ask them for proof they were on the 
website.
Mr A has said, in relation to my finding that he seemingly never had any need of the 
relevant covers, that its true he was asked about making a claim and said he never 
had need to. But, thats only because RAC refused to honour the cover, and he did in 
fact need to make several claims on the policy towards the end of the policy year.
As Mr A provided further information hed not sent in before, we asked RAC for their 
comments on this  and to provide additional clarification. Ive summarised in my own words 
the relevant elements for this decision:
In response to Mr A saying RACs letter had multiple errors in it, they confirmed the 
evidence provided meant the cover was free.
RAC explained the terms for offers of free cover are always the same  just the 
product itself changed. And, they only offer one free cover at a time which was free 
battery cover when Mr A activated his policy. So, free at home cover wasnt 
available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision above I understood Mr A hadnt made a claim, or ever needed to 
make a claim. Because of that, I didnt think I needed to decide whether the policy should or 
shouldnt have offered the home and battery covers Mr A said they should.
But, as Mr A has now told us he did have need to make a claim, I do now need to consider 
further whether the policy he had was one he bought  or was included free. If the policy was 
free, then he wouldnt be entitled to the additional cover.
So, Ive looked at the evidence again. RAC have pointed to a warranty leaflet, which Mr A 
was given with our investigators assessment, as evidence to say the cover was free. This 
warranty card says the cover is offered free when buying a vehicle at one of RACs warranty 
dealerships. The evidence Mr A has provided is he bought a maintenance repair package for 
£300 which included breakdown cover.
RAC have clarified that, although the information Mr A has provided shows breakdown cover 
included as part of a paid warranty product - it cant be upgraded to include anything else  
such as the free battery cover on offer. And, although Mr A had that, the cover he activated 
with them was the free cover.Overall based on all the information Ive seen Im persuaded Mr A was offered free cover 
when buying a new car and did activate it. I realise Mr A has said the dealer didnt offer free 
cover. But the warranty card says *12 months free RAC cover is provided following the 
purchase of a vehicle. Mr A did buy a new car, so it does seem as though the cover given 
to him was free and not paid for. 
RAC also sent out a welcome letter which talked about his complimentary cover. I appreciate 
Mr As point that just because theyve sent a letter saying this it doesnt make it true that the 
cover was free. But I think this adds weight to RACs argument the cover was free  because 
I also cant see why RAC would have sent Mr A letters saying hed activated his free cover if 
that wasnt the case. Mistakes can and do happen, but Ive not seen anything to suggest 
thats the situation here.
Taking everything into account then, Im persuaded that Mr A didnt pay for his cover with 
RAC  he had complimentary cover.
With that in mind, I then think RAC have acted fairly by not giving Mr A free battery (or at 
home) cover  as the offer does say its not available in conjunction with any other offers. I 
realise Mr A disagrees very strongly with this, but I think the terms of the offer are clear. And 
I think its reasonable to say as Mr A had free RAC cover, thatd count as an offer in itself  
so under the terms it cant be added to.
Ive thought about the evidence Mr A has provided to show breakdown cover was included in 
the warranty product he paid £300 for. RAC have said on this point this cover couldnt be 
upgraded to capture other products such as free battery cover because it was a different 
product that was underwritten by another company. Ive not seen anything to suggest thats 
incorrect and, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied it was the free cover Mr A 
had.
Overall then, Im satisfied Mr A did take out free cover with RAC, so wasnt entitled to the 
free battery cover.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman