DRN-4185371
The complaint
Mr B complains about how long Leeds Building Society took to refund £18,000.
What happened
Mr B says he paid £18,000 into his account but it was rejected as he had already used his 
yearly allowance. He says the refund took from about 7 February 2023 to 28 February 2023 
to return to his account. Mr B says he had no idea where his money was, and Leeds was 
unable to tell him what was going on. He says he was caused distress and inconvenience. 
Mr B would like appropriate compensation and says he made a number of visits to both his 
other bank and Leeds.
Leeds says it upheld Mr Bs complaint and has apologised. It says the problem was caused 
by a partner firm needing to carry out validation checks and so cant be responsible for that.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it and thought Leeds should 
pay £200 compensation as he was caused a significant level of distress for some time.
Leeds doesnt accept that view and says the other business was entitled to carry out those 
checks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint and think Leeds 
should pay Mr B £200 compensation.
Im satisfied that Leeds took Mr Bs payment and told him he could make it. That was 
incorrect advice as Mr B had exceeded his allowance for that tax year. There is also no 
dispute that Leeds then took from 7 February 2023 until the 28 February 2023 to refund what 
I think was a relatively large sum of money. I appreciate Leeds now says the delay was 
caused by a business partner, despite accepting responsibility for the mistake in the final 
response letter. But Im satisfied Leeds is responsible for the delay and is responsible in 
these circumstances for the actions of whoever it chooses to process payments.
I have no doubt Mr B was caused a significant level of distress and inconvenience and would 
have been worried for some three weeks where his money was. I accept what Mr B says 
that Leeds was unable to re-assure him about his concerns and was unable to explain what 
the problem was. I have made clear this was a large amount of money that took three weeks 
to return. I also accept that Mr B was caused inconvenience by attending both a Leeds 
branch and the branch of his other bank to check the position. So, Im satisfied this was not 
a simple mistake that had little consequence but a problem that meant not only repeated 
branch visits but also telephone calls to check on the return.
For those reasons I dont think £100 compensation is fair and reasonable or fairly considers 
what took place here or the time it took to sort out. Im satisfied that Leeds should pay £200 
compensation which I think is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Leeds should pay Mr B £200 compensation in total. I can see it has paid £100.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Leeds Building Society to pay a 
total of £200 compensation less any payments already made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman