DRN-3566270
The Complaint
Mrs and Mr R say that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money)1 didnt fairly or 
reasonably deal with a claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) made in 
relation to a holiday product they purchased.
Background to the Complaint
It looks like Mrs and Mr R bought a points-based timeshare (the Timeshare) from a
timeshare provider (the Supplier) in October 2005. And to help finance that purchase, they 
took a loan from GE Money on 27th of that month (the Credit Agreement)  which 
GE Money says (and evidences) ended in November 2006. 
Unhappy with what had happened in October 2005, Mrs and Mr R  using a professional
representative (SL)  wrote to GE Money in April 2020 to complain about the sale of the 
Timeshare (the First Letter of Complaint). And in summary, it looks like that Letter alleged 
that the Supplier had misrepresented and mis-sold the Timeshare for a number of reasons. It 
also alleged that the lending by GE Money was unaffordable. 
On 1 July 2020, GE Money wrote to SL in answer to the allegations made in the First Letter 
of Complaint. When doing that, it grouped the allegations together and treated them as both 
claims under Section 75 and 140A of the CCA and a complaint. GE Money wasnt 
persuaded that Section 140A applied to the Credit Agreement. It thought that the claim for 
misrepresentation was made too late under the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA). And it also 
thought that some of the allegations were better dealt with by the Supplier.
On 13 October 2020, it then looks like Mrs and Mr R wrote to GE Money directly (the 
Second Letter of Complaint). And, again, that Letter appears to have alleged that the 
Supplier had misrepresented and mis-sold the Timeshare for a number of reasons while also 
alleging that the lending by GE Money was unaffordable.
GE Money responded to the Second Letter of Complaint on the 11th December that year and 
dealt with the allegations in much the same way it did in July that year. 
So, Mrs and Mr R referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service  using SL as 
their representative. 
The complaint was then looked at by an adjudicator. He didnt think that Section 140A of the 
CCA applied to the Credit Agreement given the dates it was likely to have started and 
ended. He thought that any claim under Section 75 of the CCA had been made too late 
under the LA and he couldnt see a reason to extend the relevant time limit in keeping with 
those permitted by the LA. And as he concluded that the Financial Ombudsman Service 
didnt have the jurisdiction to consider GE Moneys decision to lend to Mrs and Mr R, he 
went on to reject the complaint on its merits.
Mrs and Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. So, he gave both sides until 
1 This is the business named on the relevant credit agreement as the creditor.
14 June 2022 to add to what had already been said and/or provided. 
GE Money didnt add anything, but Mrs and Mr R did. Their subsequent submissions 
focused largely on why they thought the Timeshare had been mis-sold. However, they did 
say they didnt realise that they had suffered a loss until 2020 when they tried to relinquish 
the Timeshare and see a return on their investment without success.
As the deadline given to both sides by the adjudicator has now been and gone, the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I dont think theres a reason to uphold it as far as the relevant merits 
of it are concerned.
But before I get to the merits, Ill set out what I cant consider as part of this Final Decision.
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt free to deal with every complaint it receives. Its
bound by rules that set out the types of complaints it can look at. Those rules are set out in
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (the FCA) Handbook under the Dispute Resolution Rules
(DISP).
Lending money under a regulated credit agreement of the kind in question wasnt an activity 
covered by the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction in October 2005. So, for that 
reason, and in keeping with what the adjudicator said in his assessment, I dont think I can 
consider, in its own right, GE Moneys decision to lend to Mrs and Mr R.
The Merits of this Complaint
Section 75 of the CCA: Misrepresentation
Under the relevant provisions of the LA, a claimant has a period of six years to make a claim 
for misrepresentation  starting from the date on which the cause of action accrued, which is 
the point at which a claimant had everything they needed to make a legal claim. 
As Mrs and Mr R say that they entered into an agreement to purchase the Timeshare from 
the Supplier in October 2005 because of misrepresentations that they suggest they relied 
on, they had six years from when they entered into the purchase and credit agreements to 
make that claim as it was when they borrowed the money to help finance the purchase in 
question that they suffered a loss.
Mrs and Mr R entered into the Credit Agreement on 27 October 2005 but didnt claim against 
GE Money for misrepresentation until April 2020. So, that claim is likely to have fallen 
outside of the relevant time limit set out in the LA. And as I cant see a reason why that time 
limit should be extended in line with the relevant provisions of the LA, I think its likely that 
GE Money had and has a defence to the claim.
Section 140A of the CCA: Unfair Relationship
If a credit agreement started before 6 April 2007, its possible to make a claim under
Section 140A of the CCA in relation to that credit agreement provided it ended after 6 April 
2008.When GE Money answered the allegations put to it by SL and Mrs and Mr R, it pointed out 
that a claim under Section 140A couldnt be made as that provision didnt apply to the Credit 
Agreement given the date it ended. That was also the conclusion reached by the adjudicator 
when he assessed this complaint  which Mrs and Mr R havent disputed. And as Ive said 
above, GE Money says and evidences that the Credit Agreement ended in November 2006. 
So, I also find it unlikely that a claim under Section 140A could have been made by 
Mrs and Mr R. 
Conclusion
Ultimately, its for the courts to decide whether or not the claim for misrepresentation has 
expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information available, such a claim is 
likely to have been made too late. And as Section 140A doesnt apply to the Credit 
Agreement, Im not persuaded that GE Money needs to do anything to put things right in this 
complaint.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint insofar as it relates to claims by 
Mrs and Mr R under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman