DRN-2934875
The complaint
Mr H complains Oplo PL Ltd lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr H took out a loan with Oplo, then trading under a different name, for £2000 to be repaid 
over a period of 36 months. The monthly repayment was £83.16, and the total cost of the 
borrowing was £2,993.76. Shortly afterwards Mr H became unable to make contractual 
repayments towards his debts and entered into a debt management plan with a third-party 
organisation.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service after being unable to resolve the matter with Oplo. 
In summary, he says Oplo should not have lent to him because he had already accrued a 
large amount of debt which he could not afford to fund a gambling problem. And, had Oplo 
conducted more thorough checks, his true circumstances would have been revealed and 
Oplo should have declined the loan.
An investigator at our service upheld Mr Hs complaint. In summary they found:
At the time Mr H applied for the loan, aside from his mortgage, he owed a large 
amount of debt relative to his income. In addition to other borrowing, he had taken 
out two personal loans shortly before the Oplo loan - a loan for £1500 in December 
2019, and a loan for £9000 in January 2020. And he had also utilized most of the 
available credit on his credit cards.
Mr H told Oplo the loan was for home improvements. But given the large amount of 
debt he had accrued over a short time with different lenders, Oplo should have 
conducted further checks to independently verify the lending was affordable and 
sustainable. 
The information on Mr Hs credit file signaled he was becoming dependent on 
borrowing. He was only making minimum repayments on his credit cards and was 
close to his credit card limits. And he quickly took out further borrowing after repaying 
previous lending, which indicated a noticeable reliance on credit.
Had Oplo performed further checks to independently verify Mr Hs actual spending 
and income, it would have come to light that his previous lending was used to fund 
gambling, and his outgoings were much greater than he had indicated. At this point, it 
would have been clear to Oplo that it should not have lent to him.
The lack of missed payments or county court judgements on Mr Hs credit file wasnt 
enough to conclude Mr H could sustainably afford further borrowing. Not enough time 
had passed to show that he could sustainably repay his existing debt commitments.
Oplo disagreed with the investigators findings and it asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. As a result, the complaint has been given to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Our services approach to complaints about irresponsible/unaffordable lending is set out on 
our website, and I have applied it to this complaint. In summary, a lender must ensure 
lending is affordable, and it needs to take reasonable steps to be satisfied the borrower can 
make repayments sustainably without having to resort to further borrowing. 
The rules which govern lending require a lender to undertake reasonable and proportionate 
checks based on the individual circumstances of the potential borrower. And, even where 
reasonable and proportionate checks show a loan looks affordable, a lender should also 
consider whether a borrower can repay a loan in a sustainable way or if there is another 
reason why lending would be irresponsible.
Oplo performed an income and expenditure with Mr H which showed a £692.92 surplus. Its 
already established Mr H hadnt declared the large amount of spending he put towards 
gambling, and he wasnt being truthful about the purpose of the loan or previous loans, or 
how he paid off previous credit.
Oplo also performed a credit check and relied on there being no recent missed payments, 
defaults or county court judgements. It concluded that adding the loan to his overall 
indebtedness was affordable and sustainable.
I disagree Oplo performed enough reasonable and proportionate checks based on Mr Hs 
circumstances. There are a number of indicators which demonstrate it should not have been 
satisfied by the checks it did perform:
Mr H had taken out several loans within a short period of time which committed him 
to making repayments over a medium term. Consequently, at the time he applied for 
the loan his overall indebtedness was already very high compared to his annual 
income and a significant part of that income was put towards repaying unsecured 
debt.
Mr H had paid off previous loans only to quickly take out further borrowing with 
several different lenders. This is a common indicator that someone is or is becoming 
overly reliant on debt.
Mr H used up most of the available credit on his credit cards shortly prior to the loan. 
And he only made minimum repayments on those balances. This indicated that he 
may have been finding it difficult to make sustainable repayments towards paying off 
those balances, which wouldnt accord with someone who had a reasonable income 
surplus. 
I disagree the lack of missed payments, recent defaults or CCJs on Mr Hs credit file was 
sufficient to show he could sustainably repay further borrowing. Making minimum repayments is not a reliable indicator that someone can sustainably repay what they owe 
over a reasonable period of time. And the lack of missed payments or a CCJ doesnt mean 
that someone isnt struggling with the amount of debt they already have. 
Mr H gave an explanation on why he wanted the loan and what his previous borrowing was 
for. But I dont find this was enough for Oplo to be satisfied that he could sustainably repay 
the loan. Instead, given the above factors, I find Oplo ought to have performed further 
independent checks to verify Mr Hs financial situation was what he had told them, given how 
indebted he had become over a short amount of time.
Had Oplo conducted further checks it would have been clear that Mr Hs real financial 
situation was not what had been presented. Its evident a substantial part of his income was 
being spent on gambling, and that he was borrowing to fund further gambling. Clearly, once 
this would have been discovered, as a responsible lender, Oplo should not have agreed to 
the loan.
Putting things right
Mr H spent the loan funds and considering his circumstances I find he ought to repay the 
loan capital. But as the loan should not have been given to him, he should not have to pay 
interest or charges on what he borrowed. So, I direct Oplo to:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr H 
has made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Hs loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Oplo should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to deduct tax from this interest. Oplo should give Mr 
H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I have decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint and I direct Oplo PL Ltd to put things right in 
accordance with my instructions above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman