DRN-2798018
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold by Abbey 
National, in 1993. Santander UK Plc is now responsible for the sale so Ill refer mainly to 
Santander. 
Mr and Mrs M say they were mis-sold the PPI with their joint mortgage.
What happened
One of our adjudicators said the complaint about the policy being mis-sold should be upheld. 
Santander didnt agree with this and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint 
This sale was obviously from quite a few years ago. We dont have access to all the point of 
sale documentation, but Santander was able to search its computer records and weve also 
been able to refer to the PPIs policy rules, when considering what happened. 
It seems only Mr M was ever sold PPI cover, even though it was set up to protect a joint 
mortgage. This means he was covered against losing his job or becoming too ill to work. The 
PPI cost £21.55 per month and if successfully claimed on, it would have paid out up to £310 
per month.
From documents Ive seen, I think theres reliable evidence that Mr and Mrs M were probably 
told this type of cover was optional. However, this was an advised sale and Santander 
therefore had a duty to make sure the policy was also suitable for their circumstances. 
And I dont think it was suitable.
This is because the policy rules said that no claims would be met for a re-occurrence of any 
disability or illness for which you sought medical advice for in the 2 years prior to the start of 
the cover. This means Mr Ms pre-existing medical condition was excluded, in my view. He 
suffered from a condition which required regular and significant medical oversight and Ive 
seen evidence he visited doctors and hospitals many times, including in the period outlined 
above in the policy rules.
Nevertheless, Santander said pre-existing medical conditions would have been discussed 
during the sale process. It also said it wanted to see evidence that Mr Ms health was indeed 
relevant to the time period in question. 
Mr M produced what I consider to be comprehensive evidence showing the medical 
condition featured prominently in his life throughout the 1980s and 1990s. So its unfortunate 
that Santander seems not to have considered that evidence  and has merely repeated its 
position that his health would have been discussed during the sale.
However, as well as providing no evidence that Mr Ms health was discussed, Id say this 
really isnt the main point. In my view, theres clear evidence that a lifelong and significant 
health condition which Mr M suffered from, would have not been something he would have 
been able to make a claim for. Im satisfied that, despite being advised to buy the cover, it 
would have been excluded under the policy rules. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest this important matter was pointed out to Mr and Mrs M. 
Moreover, I find it implausible that if the pre-existing condition had been discussed  and 
pointed out that no claim could be made in respect of it  that Mr and Mrs M would have 
wanted to buy the cover. I think theyd have regarded the PPI and its limitations as a waste 
of money.
This policy was not suitable and was mis-sold.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr M and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if Mr M hadnt taken 
out PPI. It should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount they paid each month for the PPI for the entire policy 
length.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% .
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
and Mrs M got for the claim from the amount it owes. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr and Mrs M a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they for one.
My final decision
I uphold this mis-sale complaint. Santander UK Plc should compensate Mr and Mrs M as Ive 
described above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman