DRN-1632790
 
The complaint
 Mrs B has complained that Caversham Insurance Limited (Caversham) has declined a 
claim she made under her product insurance cover policy.
What happened
 Mrs B bought an i-pad in October 2019 under a hire purchase agreement. The agreement 
included product insurance cover with Caversham. 
In December 2019 Mrs B contacted the store she had arranged the hire purchase 
agreement with to let it know that the i-pad had been stolen. In this initial call the i-pad was 
recorded as having been stolen from a train. However, Mrs B later contacted Caversham in 
January 2020 to say this wasnt correct and the i-pad had actually been stolen from a hotel 
room she had been staying in. 
Caversham declined Mrs Bs claim on the basis that the information she had provided to it 
during the claim process had been inconsistent and she had delayed contacting the 
underwriter to report it stolen. It said that Mrs B contacted the store where she had signed 
the hire purchase agreement in the first instance and told a member of staff there that it had 
been stolen from a train. Some weeks later she contacted Caversham directly to start the 
insurance claim and told the representative she spoke to it had been stolen from a hotel 
room. Caversham has said that it is entitled to decline the claim under the terms of is policy 
for both the delay in contacting the underwriter and the inconsistencies in what Mrs B told 
the representative she spoke to in the store and what she told the underwriter directly. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Bs complaint already, she found that 
Caversham was entitled to decline the claim and so she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs B disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint and so its been passed to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not going to ask 
Caversham to do any more in relation to Mrs Bs claim and Id like to explain why.
Throughout her complaint Mrs B has been represented by a family member, Mr S. Mr S 
contacted our service to make the complaint on behalf of Mrs B and has provided 
information on her behalf. 
When Mr S first spoke to us, he explained that when Mrs B called the store she had 
arranged the hire purchase with to report the i-pad as having been stolen, she had been on 
a train with poor reception. He believed the person she spoke to recorded what she said 
incorrectly. 
He said that the police report provided to Caversham clearly states that the i-pad had been 
stolen from a hotel room and that it was unfair of the business to expected Mrs B to continue 
to pay each week under the hire purchase agreement for an item she no longer had. 
Mr S also told us that he had been using the i-pad for his university studies and was solely 
reliant on it to complete his degree. He asked that Caversham both honour the claim and 
pay an additional £9,000 compensation to cover the cost of his university fees as he would 
be unable to complete his studies without access to the i-pad. He also confirmed that he and 
Mrs B dont live in the same city.
Looking at the terms and conditions of the policy I can see that it says
Cover applies only where the hire purchase goods are kept in your premises in accordance 
with the hire purchase agreement and while they are in transit, and in your custody
Portable electronic items temporarily removed from the premises are covered but only if 
they in your custody.
It also states that
You must comply with all of the obligations imposed upon you under the hire purchase 
agreement, including providing us at all times with honest, complete and accurate 
information.
You must notify the policy in the case of theft and submit a claim form and the police crime 
numberas soon as possible after the theft or damage. 
Following from what Mr S told us about how he was completely dependent on the i-pad for 
his studies and would be unable to finish his degree without it, I find it reasonable to assume 
that Mr S had sole use of the i-pad for the majority of the time. And he has also explained he 
and Mrs B live in different parts of the UK. So, it seems to me that the terms of the policy 
were broken as soon as Mr S took sole custody of the device. I say this because Mrs B was 
the person named on the hire purchase agreement and the i-pad was registered at her 
address. So she was the only person insured to have the device under the policy. 
Even if this wasnt the case and Mr S didnt have permanent use of the i-pad the theft 
occurred on 27 December 2019 and wasnt reported to the underwriter until 14 January 2020 
which would exclude the claim on the basis Mrs B didnt contact Caversham as soon as 
possible after the theft or damage. Therefore, Caversham is entitled to decline the claim 
under this exclusion.
Finally, in relation to whether the device was taken from a train or a hotel room. Mrs B and 
Mr S have not been consistent in the information they have provided to Caversham in 
relation to how or where the device was stolen. So I think the underwriter is also entitled to 
decline the claim based on the exclusion relating to providing us at all times with honest, 
complete and accurate information. 
Therefore, I dont think Caversham has behaved unfairly or unreasonably by declining 
Mrs Bs claim and I wont be asking it to do any more in relation to her complaint. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Caversham 
Insurance Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman