DRN-3817549
The complaint
Ms C complains that AXA XL Insurance Company UK Limited (hereafter AXA XL) treated 
her second fall as a second personal accident claim, rather than a continuation of an original 
claim.
What happened
Ms C made a successful personal accident claim following an accident in January 2021  
shed been dog walking as part of her business and had fallen over, injuring her shoulder. 
Unfortunately Ms C had another fall in late March 2021 whilst dog walking, so contacted 
AXA XL and explained it had worsened her shoulder injury. 
AXA XL said the second fall would need to be treated as a second claim, but Ms C 
disagreed and complained. She said AXA XL had previously told her that any worsening of 
her injury would be considered the same claim, and not a new one. 
AXA XL explained Ms Cs shoulder was made worse due to a separate incident and needed 
to be considered as a new claim in line with the relevant policy terms. It apologised if that 
had been unclear or thered been a misunderstanding following the conversation Ms C had 
previously had with it. But, it did not uphold her complaint. 
Ms C referred her complaint to this service and in doing so raised new concerns too  about 
AXA XL declining to renew the policy. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think AXA XL had declined the 
claim unreasonably. They also explained Ms C would need to raise her concerns about the 
declined renewal to AXA XL in the first instance, because that complaint point didnt appear 
to have been raised with it before. 
Ms C disagreed. She said there was no new injury following the second fall, rather, the 
second fall had made the pain of the original injury worse. She said shed been told any 
worsening would be a continuous claim and not a new one. And that if she knew it would 
affect her getting future insurance she would not have risked it.  
So, the matter is now for me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Though I realise Ms C will be disappointed by this, I will not be upholding her complaint. I 
dont think it was unreasonable of AXA XL to treat the second fall as a second claim and will 
explain why. 
AXA XL has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly, and not reject them 
unreasonably. The terms and conditions of the policy in this complaint set out the following: 
To be eligible for benefit, the Insured Person must make a claim for a covered Benefit 
within the Claim Time Limit. Any subsequent claims by that Insured Person for further 
covered Benefit arising out of the same Accident will be deemed to have been made within 
the Claim Time Limit. 
They also define the word Accident as meaning:
Accident shall mean a sudden, unexpected, unusual, specific event which occurs at an 
identifiable time and place.
Here, AXA XL says that although Ms Cs shoulder injury was made worse by a second fall, 
the second fall constituted a separate accident and so could not be deemed a continuation 
of her first claim..
I dont think that position is unfair. I appreciate Ms C says she wouldnt have fallen the 
second time were it not for the injury following the first fall. But while Ms C injure her 
shoulder as a result of the first fall, that injury was only worsened because of the second  
and separate  fall. 
So, in view of the policy terms that applied Im not persuaded it was unreasonable of AXA XL 
to treat Ms Cs second fall as a separate accident and in turn a separate claim.
Ms C has explained that AXA XL told her that any worsening of her shoulder injury would be 
considered a continuation of her claim. While I dont doubt Ms Cs understanding of matters 
here, AXA XL has since apologised for any misunderstanding. I think it was right of AXA XL 
to do this. But an apology being warranted doesnt automatically mean that AXA XL should 
now act outside of the policy terms and treat the second fall as a continuation claim. So I will 
not be directing it to do so. 
I am aware that Ms C has additional concerns about matters relating to the renewal (or lack 
thereof) of her policy, but as our investigator rightly explained these concerns dont appear to 
have been raised with AXA XL yet. It would not be right for me to address them here first 
because of that. And so I will not be making a finding on them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman