DRN-4005798
The complaint
Mrs W complains that HSBC Life (UK) unfairly stopped her group income protection benefit. 
What happened
Mrs W benefits from a group income protection policy, underwritten by HSBC Life and 
provided by her employer. She became absent from work in January 2022 following a 
cancer diagnosis. And after undergoing related surgery in February 2022 a group income 
protection claim was made for her in April 2022.
HSBC Life accepted Mrs W was incapacitated by her cancer diagnosis and surgery. But it 
only agreed to pay her claim until the end of September 2022. And it said the available 
medical evidence indicated she should have been in a position to return to work by then. 
Mrs W complained about that decision and said she was still unfit for work. She explained 
she was suffering from a number of symptoms post-operatively (abdominal, bowel, liver, and 
joint problems for example). She said shed been referred to specialists for further 
investigations too, and both her GP and Occupational Health advisor had confirmed she 
wasnt fit for work.
HSBC Life acknowledged Mrs W had reported problems following surgery. But it didnt think 
they alone should have impacted her ability to make a gradual, supportive, return. So it 
maintained its position and Mrs W brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think HSBC Life had done enough to demonstrate that Mrs W was no 
longer incapacitated in line with the policy terms. They upheld her complaint and 
recommended; HSBC Life reinstated the claim, paid backdated benefit with interest, and 
paid £200 for distress and inconvenience too. 
Mrs W agreed with that recommendation, but HSBC Life did not. It reiterated its position 
regarding ongoing incapacity not being demonstrated, and so as no agreement between the 
parties was reached Mrs Ws complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W needed to satisfy an own occupation definition of incapacity. Looking at the relevant 
policy documentation I can see that meant an employee being, unable, by reason of 
illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation. I can 
also see that material and substantial duties were cited as those, normally required for, 
or form a significant and integral part of your occupation which cannot be reasonably omitted 
or modified by you or your employer.
HSBC Life had a responsibility to handle Mrs Ws claim both promptly and fairly and to not 
reject it unreasonably. Given it had accepted the claim it was also for it to show (through 
available medical evidence) that Mrs W no longer met the relevant policy terms. However, 
Im not persuaded HSBC Life did that on this occasion and as such have reached the same 
outcome as the investigator before me. Ill now explain why. 
Without listing every piece of medical evidence made available I note: 
In April 2022 Mrs Ws GP records showed she had steatosis of liver, her liver function 
tests were improving, and thered been no sign of metastases on both her ultrasound 
and MRI. They also showed she was awaiting a podiatry review regarding heel pain. 
In June 2022 a letter from Mrs Ws Consultant in Obstetrics and Gynaecology 
confirmed shed made a good recovery from her surgery. The consultant noted Mrs 
Ws liver functions tests had been a bit deranged and she was complaining of some 
alteration to her bowel habits. But they didnt think that could be ascribed to their 
surgery, they noted their examination was unremarkable, and they confirmed theyd 
see Mrs W in six months. 
In June 2022 Mr Ws GP records showed theyd continue to observe her reported 
joint aches for now until her abdominal symptoms were further investigated. 
In July 2022 Mrs Ws GP also wrote a letter to confirm theyd last reviewed her in 
June 2022. They noted Mrs W was suffering from abdominal bloating and discomfort, 
altered bowel habits, raised liver enzymes and steatosis of liver. They said the liver 
and bowel symptoms were affecting her functioning, and confirmed she was awaiting 
a gastroenterology appointment to investigate the liver tests and bowel symptoms.
In July 2022 HSBC Lifes CMO said Mrs W had undergone a pelvic MRI which 
showed no evidence of any abnormality. They said her liver function tests had been 
stable on serial testing, her gastrointestinal symptoms didnt seem to be frequent, 
and her heel discomfort was typically felt while sleeping. The CMO said Mrs W had 
some joint aches but without limitation on mobility or sleep, and her symptoms in the 
situation shouldnt prevent her from returning to work. 
In September 2022 HSBC Lifes CMO said given it had been so long since her 
surgery, Mrs Ws lingering symptoms were probably not related to it. They said her 
symptoms could be a functional issue rather than an origin of organic alteration. But 
they also said HSBC Life would greatly benefit from a gastroenterologists 
examination for differential diagnosis. They said they were still not certain that her 
symptoms should keep her from returning to work, they acknowledged they may be a 
little painful or uncomfortable, and they also said it was possible that Mrs W lacked 
the drive and willingness to return to work. 
HSBC Life chose not to wait for further specialist input before ceasing benefit. That was 
despite Mrs W having already been referred for it, and its own CMO commenting on such 
input being of great benefit too. HSBC Life says it didnt think it necessary to wait for the 
above, given the medical evidence contained limited detail of impact on ability to work and 
its CMO wasnt certain Mrs Ws symptoms should prevent a return either. But the onus here 
was on it to demonstrate that the relevant policy terms were no longer satisfied. 
I can appreciate the position HSBC Life decided to take here, but I am also mindful that Mrs 
W was still awaiting further specialist input. Her consultant had said her reported symptoms 
were unlikely related to her surgery too. Her GP had said they were unable to add anything 
else without that specialist input. And, HSBC Lifes own CMO had said theyd greatly benefit 
from such input too. So, in all the circumstances I think the decision to cease benefit was a 
little premature on this occasion. I cant fairly conclude that HSBC Life demonstrated that Mrs W no longer satisfied the 
relevant policy terms because of that. As such I agree that the claim should be reinstated. I 
would however like to reassure HSBC Life that this complaint was somewhat finely 
balanced, and Mrs W should of course remain aware that HSBC Life will be entitled to 
review her claim again. 
The nature of needing to make an income protection claim means that the circumstances 
surrounding it are likely to have caused the individual some amount of distress and 
inconvenience. It would not be right of me to award compensation for that of course. But 
here, I do think HSBC Lifes actions had an additional impact on Mrs W (additional worry 
about finances when her claim was ceased, and upset caused by its premature decline for 
example) during what was an already difficult time for her. £200 represents a fair and 
proportionate reflection of that impact, so I agree that should be paid too. 
Putting things right
For all of the reasons given above HSBC Life should put things right by:
Reinstating the claim and paying any backdated benefit due. Interest at a simple rate 
of 8% per annum should be calculated and added to these backdated benefit 
payments, from the date they were originally due to the date of settlement. 
Paying £200 compensation
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. HSBC Life (UK) should put things right in the 
way I have set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman