DRN-3842369
The complaint
S complains that TSB Bank plc may have made a mistake when exchanging funds for it.
What happened
S took cash into a TSB branch and asked for it to be exchanged to different denominations. 
TSB say he asked for £880 and that thats what they gave him. But, on counting the money 
hed brought in, they said it was only £830  so they debited his account by the difference of 
£50.
S wasnt happy with that, saying there was insufficient proof to show he owed the difference, 
but TSB maintained their view and so the complaint was brought to our service.
An investigator here didnt think TSB had done anything wrong. They said, on balance, there 
was insufficient evidence to show that TSB had treated S unfairly. S didnt agree, saying 
TSB hadnt followed procedures and had withheld evidence from it. S said it doesnt need 
the money but that it is the principle of the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint S, but Im not upholding its complaint. While I appreciate not all 
potential evidence is available, I think there is sufficient to say TSB acted fairly. To put it 
another way, I dont find there to be sufficient for me to say they did anything wrong either. 
While I appreciate S doesnt agree its fair, we consider cases on the balance of probability.
S say they believe TSB may have made a mistake and that there is possibly some form of 
cover-up theyve done to protect their staff. I consider this to be very unlikely because Id 
expect a bank to operate in a fair manner when dealing with their customers.
Thats not to say misconduct wont ever happen, but for the sake of £50 I just dont see a 
staff member  nor their colleagues, given several have been involved  would take such a 
risk for such little, if any, gain. For example, S says it was told the mistake mustve 
happened on another account, if that was correct then I dont see why that account wouldnt 
have been corrected instead.
I appreciate that CCTV footage isnt available, and that stills (or even the footage itself) 
would be unlikely to show how much cash S had brought into the branch  after all, there 
were coins involved. But TSB have provided statements and contemporaneous notes which 
support what they have said.
They include a statement that S was provided with £880 before all of his coins had been 
counted, and that he had left the branch before that process was completed. TSB say they 
identified the discrepancy shortly after, so they were able to balance the tills by debiting Ss 
account. Its clear that Ss version of events differs, in that they say they spoke to another 
staff member while the coins were being counted. 
I appreciate it would be difficult for S to prove how much money they arrived at, and left, the 
branch with but without anything more persuasive I cant uphold this complaint. The 
transaction that took place wasnt a deposit and withdrawal, merely an exchange of cash in 
different denominations.
That means the only records available are the tills balancing after the correction. And that 
combined with the contemporaneous notes are sufficient to persuade me that its unlikely to 
have been a mistake by TSB.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman