DRN-2791456
The complaint
Mr J complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank, wont refund to him 
the money that he paid for two visas for travel to another country.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr J and to Tesco Bank on 29 March 
2021. In that provisional decision I set out what had happened as follows:
Mr J used his Tesco Bank credit card in February 2020 to pay £56.86 for two visas 
for travel to another country. The visas were valid for 90 days between May and 
October 2020 but a few days after the electronic visas had been issued, the issuing 
country announced that visas would no longer be required for travel. Mr J claimed a 
refund from Tesco Bank of the £56.86 that hed paid for the visas.
It said that there was no right for it to dispute the transaction under the chargeback 
rules and that, as the value of the visas was below £100, it wouldnt be able to raise a 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Mr J wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He believed that 
a chargeback ought to have been raised because the goods or services hadnt been 
delivered to Mr J and that it wouldve been upheld. He recommended that Tesco 
Bank should refund to Mr J the sum of £56.86, with interest, and the sum of £75 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Tesco Bank has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says 
the visas were valid when they were issued to Mr J and, when he made the 
purchase, they were a requirement for travel, regardless of the date they could be 
used from. It says that for a chargeback to have been successful it would need to 
consider whether the service was made unavailable to Mr J and that if a chargeback 
had been processed, it would have expected the issuer to have challenged the 
dispute.
And I set out my provisional findings as follows:
The cost of the two visas was £56.86 and, because the price of each visa was less 
than £100, section 75 doesnt apply to this purchase. Tesco Bank says that it 
considered Mr Js claim under the chargeback rules but there was no right for it to 
dispute the transaction under the applicable scheme rules.
Theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made. But if 
the right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules  and 
if theres a reasonable prospect of success  I consider it to be good practice for a 
chargeback claim to be made.
Its clear that Mr J received no benefit from the visas that he purchased as the need 
for them was removed by the issuing country a few days after hed bought them. But 
the visas were a requirement for travel at the time that they were issued and Mr J did 
receive the two electronic visas that hed paid for.
Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr J has contacted the issuer of the visas for a 
refund of the money that he paid for them and Im not persuaded that there was a 
valid reason under the applicable scheme rules for a chargeback claim to be made. 
Nor am I persuaded that there was a reasonable prospect of a chargeback claim 
being successful.
For these reasons, I dont consider that Tesco Bank acted incorrectly by not making 
a chargeback claim for the £56.86 that Mr J had paid for the visas. I sympathise with 
Mr J because he paid £56.86 for visas that he had no benefit from, but I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Tesco Bank 
to refund to him that £56.86, to pay him any other compensation or to take any other 
action in response to his complaint.
Mr J says that he was mis-led as to the fact that he was required to have a visa for the dates 
of travel when it turns out he wasnt. He says that the supplier could only provide a visa to 
allow lawful entry to the country if the visa was required on the day of travel  but the 
requirement for a visa was not in place on the day of travel. He says that he contacted the 
supplier but was told that it wouldn't be issuing a refund  but a refund is due either from the 
supplier or from Tesco Bank and that, if he doesnt receive a refund, he will be taking further 
action. He says that he also contacted the supplier by e-mail but the e-mail was returned 
undelivered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. Its clear 
that Mr J feels very strongly that he should receive a refund but I dont agree that it would be 
fair or reasonable for me to require Tesco Bank to refund the £56.86 to him in these 
circumstances.
A visa was required for travel to the country at the time that the visas were bought by Mr J. 
That requirement was removed a few days later so at the time of travel he wouldnt have 
needed a visa. But Mr J did receive the two electronic visas that hed paid for and which 
were valid at the time that they were issued for travel to that country for his dates of travel. 
Its clear that Mr J would have received no benefit from those visas because the visas were 
no longer required by the intended dates of travel. But Im not persuaded that there was a 
valid reason under the applicable scheme rules for Tesco Bank to make a chargeback claim 
to the supplier or that there was a reasonable prospect of a chargeback claim being 
successful in these circumstances. 
I dont consider that Tesco Bank acted incorrectly by not making a chargeback claim for the 
£56.86 that Mr J had paid for the visas and I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me 
to require it to refund to him that £56.86, to pay him any other compensation or to take any 
other action in response to his complaint.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman