DRN-3144635
The complaint
Mr R complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited isnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr R entered into an agreement with Moneybarn to finance the purchase of a used car on 13 
August 2020 for £9,378. On 18 April 2021 the car broke down and it has been discovered 
that the turbo has failed and the car requires extensive repairs. 
Mr R complained to Moneybarn as the car had failed 7 months into his agreement and after 
he had covered around 7,000 miles. Mr R says that he shouldnt be responsible for the cost 
of repairs so soon after buying the car. Moneybarn rejected Mr Rs complaint because it said 
there was no evidence the fault with the turbo was present at the point of sale and in any 
event, this was a wear and tear item. Mr R brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. They 
didnt think there was enough evidence to say that the turbo fault was there or developing at 
the point of sale given the time that Mr R had been driving the car and the miles he had been 
able to cover. 
Mr R didnt agree and replied to say in summary that the dealership was at fault and he 
shouldnt be responsible for expensive repairs 8 months into his agreement.
So, the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn, as the supplier of the car, is responsible for ensuring that it is of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr R - whether or not it was of satisfactory quality at that time 
will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the price 
that was paid for it.
The car that was supplied to Mr R was seven years old, had been driven for 78,000 miles 
and had a price of £9,378. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but 
exactly how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors. Clearly, it can be 
reasonable to expect an older car to have more faults and require replacement of items 
more often than a brand-new car.
There is no evidence that there were any issues with the car until the breakdown in April 
2021. The turbo has clearly failed and this has resulted in some engine damage. 
Theres clearly a fault now with the turbo but Ive seen no evidence to show that this fault 
was present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr R. Mr R was able to use the car 
for over 7 months and drove around 7,000 miles in it before the car has failed. I accept the 
point that Mr R makes that this is a short time into his agreement but a used car will develop 
faults and require repairs and that does not mean the car was faulty at the point of supply. 
Im not persuaded that the issues the car has now were present or developing when the car 
was supplied to Mr R.
I sympathise with Mr R for the issues that hes had with the car and for the repairs that it now 
needs  but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him.
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Moneybarn to allow Mr R to reject the car, to pay for any repairs to it, to pay any 
compensation to him or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman