DRN-1250545
 
The complaint
Ms M has complained about loans granted to her by Elevate Credit International Limited 
trading as Sunny (Sunny or the lender).  Ms M says that Sunny was irresponsible to lend 
to her because it would have seen that the loans were unaffordable for her had it carried out 
proper checks.
Ms M has brought her complaint to this Service through a claims management company. For 
simplicity, I will refer to Ms M throughout this decision. 
What happened
Sunny agreed 12 loans for Ms M from August 2016 to June 2018. The loans were all 
instalment loans to be repaid over six months and ranged in value from £50 to £600. The 
below table sets out some information Sunny has provided about these loans (with numbers 
rounded to the nearest pound). As the table shows many of the loans ran concurrently and I 
understand the last two were still outstanding when Ms M brought her complaint to this 
Service. Sunny has confirmed that loan 12 has since been paid.
Loan Start date End date Principal (£)Highest 
monthly 
repayment (£)
1 16/08/2016 25/08/2016 100 28
2 26/08/2016 02/01/2017 600 190
3 30/11/2016 02/01/2017 200 65
4 01/02/2017 11/04/2017 600 192
5 21/03/2017 30/03/2017 50 14
6 09/04/2017 11/04/2017 100 31
7 01/07/2017 17/07/2017 600 197
8 03/09/2017 22/02/2018 600 192
9 11/11/2017 22/02/2018 100 30
10 14/03/2018 10/12/2018 600 180
11 01/05/2018 Outstanding 150 49
12 14/06/2018 08/10/2019 100 30
 
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Ms complaint in part and recommended that Sunny refund all of 
the interest and charges she paid on loans 6 to 12 because they found that Ms Ms pattern 
of borrowing by loan 6 showed that it wasnt likely she was managing to make her 
repayments sustainably.Sunny disagreed with this recommendation but offered to refund interest and charges on 
loans 10, 11 and 12 because, it said  we recognise that the manner in which Ms [M] used 
our products may have indicated she was not, when looking at her usage overall, using the 
credit for short term borrowing needs. At the point at which her usage extended beyond 18 
months, it is possible that she may have started to become reliant on the credit. As a result, 
from this point in time the lending to her may not have been sustainable. We therefore agree 
to partially uphold her complaint from loan 10 onwards.
Ms M didnt accept this offer and so the complaint has come to me, as an ombudsman, for 
review and final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Ive followed that 
approach here. 
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Ms M took out her loans. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook said that for all loans 
Sunny needed to check that Ms M could afford to meet her repayments in a sustainable 
manner. This meant Ms M being able to meet her repayments out of her normal income 
without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks Sunny needed to carry out in order 
to reasonably assess whether Ms M would be able to meet her repayments sustainably. But 
the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Sunny says it asked Ms M for information about her income and expenses each time she 
applied for a loan. The lender recorded Ms Ms monthly income as around £1,750 when she 
first applied, which increased to £1,950 for her last four loans. It recorded Ms Ms monthly 
expenses, which included credit commitments, as ranging from approximately £725 to 
£1,340 and estimated that she was left with a minimum amount of around £440 a month to 
meet her loan repayments throughout the time she borrowed from it.Sunny also said that it used information from third party credit reference agencies to ensure 
the loans were affordable for Ms M and to check her credit history. It hasnt provided the 
results of these checks but it has provided a summary which states that Ms M didnt have 
more than two outstanding loans from other short term providers when she first applied to it, 
and didnt have more than four for later loans. The summary also states that there were no 
bankruptcies, debt management plans or recent county court judgements recorded on her 
credit file. The summary does show that around the time she applied for her third loan (and 
again for her eight loan onwards) that Ms M had recently defaulted on existing credit. It 
doesnt, however, show the amount of any existing debt or how much she was paying 
towards this. 
Ms M repaid her first loan within two weeks and took out her second the next day. This was 
for the significantly larger amount of £600. Ms M borrowed her third loan a few months later, 
and when she repaid loans 2 and 3, she took out a fourth loan (again for £600) the following 
month, and supplemented it the month after. 
The loan repayments for these first five loans didnt take up such a significant proportion of 
Ms Ms monthly income that Id consider this alone might render the lending irresponsible, 
even considering the combined repayments. And it seems from the information Ms M gave 
Sunny about her expenses that she had enough disposable income to meet the loan 
repayments each month, while meeting her existing commitments. 
Sunny said that it didnt find anything in its checks to suggest that it ought to have looked 
further into Ms Ms financial situation before agreeing to lend to her and, from what Ive seen, 
that seems to be the case. Ive noted that Sunnys summary showed a recent default on Ms 
Ms credit file before she took out her third loan but, given this loan was for a lower amount 
than loan 2 and that it was relatively early on in their lending relationship, on balance I dont 
think it was unreasonable of Sunny to lend on this occasion. 
I think Sunnys checks were proportionate for Ms Ms earlier loans but when shed repaid 
and borrowed again a few times I think Sunny ought to have looked into her finances in more 
detail before lending to her again and verified the information she was providing.
Ms M has provided her bank statements and I can see from these that around that time of 
loan 6 she was borrowing from at least four other short term lenders, managing three credit 
card debts and a large secured loan. I think its likely Sunny would have learnt this and, as a 
responsible lender, would have declined to lend to her because she was likely to have 
problems repaying further credit. 
Sunny offered to refund the interest and charges Ms M paid on loans 10, 11 and 12 because 
it said that the manner in which Ms M borrowed  may have indicated she was not using its 
loans for short term borrowing needs. I agree that it was irresponsible to have agreed these 
loans but I also think Sunny should have stopped lending to Ms M before then, specifically 
when she asked for her sixth loan. 
As Ive explained, had Sunny carried out a proportionate check here it was likely to decline 
her loan. I also think Sunny ought to have realised at that point that Ms M was not managing 
to meet her repayments sustainably. This loan was for £100  shed first borrowed this 
amount about eight months earlier and it seems to me she hadnt managed to make any 
inroads into her debt in this time. Ms Ms pattern of taking out further loans when she repaid 
previous loans and taking out loans concurrently had been demonstrated by that point. This 
pattern suggests to me that she couldnt repay her debt without needing to borrow again, 
that she wasnt managing to meet her repayments sustainably and had an ongoing need for 
additional income. In thinking about the pattern of lending, I have considered that there was a gap of almost 
three months before Ms M took out loan 7. However, given shed been indebted to Sunny for 
about eight months before this gap, I am still of the view that it wasnt responsible of Sunny 
to have continued to lend to her. In addition, I think a proportionate check would have shown 
her finances hadnt improved.
In summary, I think Ms M lost out when Sunny agreed loan 6 and went on to agree more 
loans for her because these loans unfairly prolonged her indebtedness and allowed her to 
take expensive credit intended for short term use over an extended period. The number of 
loans and length of time she borrowed over was likely to be seen negatively by other 
lenders, potentially keeping her in the market for high cost loans.
Putting things right
As Ive explained above, I find that Sunny was irresponsible to have agreed further credit for 
Ms M from and including her sixth loan taken out on the 9 April 2017. In order to put things 
right for her, Sunny should:
a. refund all interest and charges Ms M paid on loans 6  to 10 and loan 12; and
b. pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to 
the dates of settlement; and
 
I understand that there is still a balance remaining on loan 11. For this loan Sunny should:
c. remove any interest and charges included in this balance; and
d. treat any payments Ms M has made towards this loan as payments towards the 
original capital borrowed; and
e. refund any payments she made above these amounts along with 8% simple* interest 
per annum from the dates the overpayments arose to the date this complaint is 
settled; 
f. if a capital shortfall remains, Sunny can use the refund calculated in a) and b) above 
to offset this. 
 
Sunny should remove all information about loans 6 to 12 from Ms Ms credit file, once 
settled, because any information recorded about them is adverse.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Ms Ms complaint about Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) in part and it should put things right for her as Ive 
outlined. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman