DRN-3438809
The complaint
Ms V is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc havent refunded money she says she 
lost as a result of a scam. 
Ms V is being represented by her solicitor, but for ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to Ms V in 
my decision. 
What happened
In 2015 Ms V became aware, through a member of her family, of a successful trader. Ms V 
remembers being told about the success of the trader, who was working for a merchant at 
the time, by the family member. So, Ms V decided to reach out to the trader to seek out 
advice on her pension and investments. 
After having discussions with the trader Ms V decided to invest a total of £43,000 for a fixed 
term of twelve months, where upon the end of the term her initial investment and any profits 
would be paid to her. At the end of the twelve months, Ms V started to contact the trader but 
didnt receive any news on her investment until 2017 when the trader said that his business 
partner had betrayed him and had stolen his and Ms Vs money. 
After further discussions and a meeting at Ms Vs house the trader agreed to a settlement 
agreement to repay Ms V. The trader made a total of £10,700 in repayments to Ms V from 
September 2018 to March 2021. After speaking with her family, Ms V reviewed the 
correspondence with the trader and the payments she made. She says she saw that the 
payments were made to the traders personal account instead of the business the trader said 
he worked for. So, she contacted the Financial Ombudsman. 
This service contacted NatWest who initially said they didnt think it was a scam because a 
repayment plan had been arranged. It then later said that due to the passage of time it was 
unlikely the money was available in the traders personal account. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that Ms V had been a 
victim of a scam and the payments she made shouldve been considered as unusual by 
NatWest. But even if NatWest had contacted her to discuss the payments, this wouldve 
unlikely stopped the scam. Thats because the investigator said Ms V wouldve most likely 
contacted the trader to ask why the payments were being sent to his personal account 
instead of a business account and wouldve been given an explanation she wouldve trusted. 
So, the investigator said its likely the payments wouldve still been made by Ms V. 
Ms V disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said that it was common 
ground that Ms V was the victim of a scam and NatWest had failed to ask any questions 
about the payments she made. She said that due to the length of time she had been a 
customer of NatWest she trusted the bank to manage her money with reasonable care and 
skill. She added that if NatWest had asked her questions about the payments and why they 
were being made she wouldve taken it very seriously and wouldve listened to any advice 
from the bank over what she was told by the trader. And because NatWest failed to ask any 
questions the complaint should be upheld. 
Ms V said that because NatWest didnt ask the receiving bank for any of the money back, it 
was only a matter of conjecture as to what wouldve most likely happened if the receiving 
bank had been asked to return her money. 
I considered the complaint, but I didnt think that the trader was most likely operating a scam. 
I shared this with Ms V along with my reasons. 
Ms V disagreed. She said the trader was operating a scam. And that the reason a 
repayment plan was arranged and put in place was because the trader was still trying to gain 
her trust with perhaps a view to further exploiting her. She added that the trader wasnt 
reported to the police because of the trust between them and that reporting it to the police 
wouldnt have helped because the trader wouldve most likely disappeared.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Im sorry to hear that Ms V has lost her money. I 
know she feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, 
so Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered this because if Im not satisfied this was a scam then I cant 
consider whether Natwest shouldve done more to stop and discuss the payments with Ms V 
at the time they were made. Having done so, Im not persuaded that at the time the relevant 
trader or merchant were operating a scam. I say this because Im not satisfied that at the 
beginning of the investment the intention was there to deceive Ms V and take all her money. 
The services being offered may have been high risk and I accept Ms Vs testimony that the 
trader gained her trust. But that doesnt mean the trader was operating a scam.
Ive considered all the evidence Ms V has provided which includes the trader asking for the 
money to be sent to his personal account in an e-mail to Ms V and that a repayment plan 
was agreed and signed so that Ms V could receive her money back. Overall, I think the 
repayment plan could be argued as persuasive evidence that the intention at the beginning 
was to fulfil the investment with Ms V but that a third party took the money that was due to be invested. For me, the loss of the money doesnt automatically mean there was an 
intention (by the trader) to scam Ms V right from the beginning. It could equally be argued 
that the money was lost due to poor investment decisions or as the trader said, a third party 
stole the money from him. 
Ms V says the repayment plan shouldnt be taken at face value here and could easily have 
been the trader trying to gain Ms Vs trust. Im afraid that  on balance - I dont agree. This 
certainly isnt the usual actions taken by someone who has scammed a member of the 
public out of their money but rather the actions of someone who perhaps made an 
investment decision with a lack of judgement on someone elses behalf. 
Money that is taken by a scammer is normally transferred away very quickly and the 
scammer will often disappear and not make contact ever again. Here it seems the trader met 
with Ms V after the money had been lost (albeit sometime later) and not only agreed a 
repayment plan but actually stuck to it for a number of years  making over £10,000 in 
repayments to Ms V with one payment made for £2,000. Its not the usual action of a 
scammer to meet with their victim after they have taken all their money, and then to agree 
and stick to a repayment plan. 
Ms V says her life savings were taken by the trader and that perhaps the trader was trying to 
continue to keep her trust to take more of her money. But Ms V had already invested her life 
savings with the trader. So, I find it unlikely the trader, if operating a scam, would take such a 
risk as to meet with Ms V in the hope of perhaps getting more money from her. 
Ive also considered that the trader was working with a merchant at the time, neither of 
whom have appeared on any watchlists with the industry regulator the Financial Conduct 
Authority. This matter was also not reported to the police after the scam had taken place and 
after the trader stopped making repayments. Im afraid I dont find it very persuasive that one 
of the reasons to not report the trader to the police or action fraud was because Ms V trusted 
the trader and at the same time didnt want him to stop responding to her or disappear. She 
may have trusted the trader to make the repayments due to the relationship they built up but 
that doesnt satisfy me that the trader was operating a scam. 
So, although I understand the various points Ms V has raised about this issue and what she 
considers were failings on NatWests part, I cant consider whether her transactions were 
unusual or uncharacteristic unless first of all Im satisfied that this was actually a scam  
rather than a poorly executed high risk investment. And although banks have obligations to 
be alert to fraud and scams, there is no obligation to protect against bad bargains or to 
provide investment advice. 
Ms V has mentioned the industry standards and best practice surrounding fraud and scams. 
Ive considered this but as Ive concluded the trader wasnt operating a scam, the obligation 
for NatWest to intervene isnt triggered. Even if the payments Ms V made did represent an 
increase in spending compared to her historical account use. But, to be clear, because on 
balance I dont think there was fraud here, I dont think NatWest shouldve done more to 
prevent the transactions. 
It follows that I dont think NatWests refusal to request any of the money back from the 
receiving bank was unreasonable here. Im afraid unless Natwest is satisfied this is a scam, 
it doesnt have to contact and make that request. Thats because its obligations to request 
the return of Ms Vs money is only triggered in the event that a scam has taken place.  Here 
the claim wasnt raised with Natwest until 2021. Thats a long time after the payments were 
made  so the chances of Ms Vs money being available to refund are extremely unlikely 
anyway. So, I dont think Natwest not requesting the money back when the claim was raised means 
Ms V wasnt treated fairly. 
Im sorry to hear Ms V lost her funds here. But in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont 
think NatWest have acted unfairly. So, Im not going to tell them to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman