DRN-1427159
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with a replacement carpet supplied to him following a claim on his home 
contents insurance underwritten by Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G).
What happened
Mr M spilled wax on his carpet which stained it. L&G replaced the carpet during February 
2019. Mr M says he noticed a mark on the new carpet straightaway after fitting, about a yard 
in front of a settee in his lounge. Mr M said the mark was different in shade to the rest of 
carpet, roughly circular and about six inches in diameter. 
Mr M contacted the carpet fitter, the manufacturer and a local carpet retailer (P) to come and 
look at the carpet. P did not provide a report but told Mr M the mark was not caused by 
footfall.
The carpets manufacturer sent an assessor (C) who reported that the shaded patches 
within the lounge are only slight and appear in front of one settee and that there was some 
pile compression and tuft deflection in these areas due to usage on site and appears to be 
where the feet and heels extend. C said that the shading is characteristic of the yarn type 
and product and has been brought about by usage. C concluded that the shading is not a 
defect of either the yarn or construction of the carpet. 
Mr M complained to L&G and it referred the matter to its carpet specialist (R).
Mr M questioned the accuracy of Cs report because he said C told him the pile was running 
the wrong way to the rest of the carpet. And Mr M said hed had his own inspector out who 
had found a fault with the carpet.  
R inspected Mr Ms carpet and identified some shading. It said Local shading/tracking is not 
evidence of a manufacturing fault. It noted shading on the carpet in the doorway to the 
kitchen and in the walkway to and from the kitchen. 
L&G responded to Mr Ms complaint saying none of the reports found fault with the carpet. 
L&G invited Mr M to provide any evidence he had of a manufacturing fault, which it said it 
would review. 
Mr M called L&G and disputed the findings of Rs and Cs reports. He said that the area of 
shading in front of the sofa isnt a high traffic area. 
Mr M commissioned a carpet cleaning firm - S - to carry out an assessment of the carpet. S 
reported on the shading and said that to say the amount of wear and tear the carpet had 
been subjected to since being put down is excessive or even above average, would be 
false. 
Mr M sent the report to L&G, but it didnt change its decision. Mr M was unhappy about this 
and also wanted to log a second complaint because of the time it took L&G to read the 
report hed sent. 
L&G referred the matter to its technical department after Mr M pointed out there was no 
shading in the hallway which was a high traffic area. L&G said Ss report didnt confirm there 
was a manufacturing fault but that the shading was more a feature of the carpet than a fault. 
L&G said it wouldnt change its decision but paid Mr M £50 compensation for the time it took 
to review his report. 
Mr M brought the complaint to us. He said it was absurd for L&G to say the shading was due 
to wear as he is the only one in the house, no-one stands or walks where the shading is and 
there are no similar marks on the hallway carpet. He said he was unhappy that L&G didnt 
send anyone round and didnt make any kind of gesture. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint because hed not seen any evidence that the 
carpet was faulty. Mr M didnt agree and said there wasnt excessive wear and the marks 
were there from the day the carpet was laid. Mr M said L&G had caused delays and asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
Mr M declined to provide further photos and said he was confident that the carpet fitter would 
fix the issue with the stair carpet and so did not want to pursue this further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Claims settlement - Contents section of Mr Ms policy booklet says that L&G:
..will at our option:
i) Replace as new;
ii) Pay the cost to us of replacing as new;
iii) Repair; or
iv) Pay the cost to us to repair;
Any items of contents
L&G replaced Mr Ms carpet, but he is unhappy because of the shading on the replacement. 
Mr Ms policy says L&G will Replace as new, so its reasonable for him to expect the 
replacement not to be faulty. So Ive considered whether the replacement carpet provided by 
L&G was defective.  
It is not in dispute that there is shading on the carpet in front of the sofa. But neither Cs nor 
Rs report say that this is due to a fault or defect with the carpet. And whilst Ss report says 
there isnt any reason why the area in front of the sofa would show differently, I think this 
means that S couldnt say the shading was down to a manufacturing fault either. Ss report 
also says that there are areas naturally slightly different in shade, due to the foot traffic, but 
these changes can be expected in the bedding-in process of the carpet post-fitting.
Ive looked at what the reports say was the cause of the shading. C said the carpets yarn 
reflects light differently depending on whether the light is from the yarns tips or sides, which 
is a characteristic of the carpet. Rs report says that the shading in front of the sofa is caused 
by resting feet. S said shading occurs in traffic areas and is part of the bedding-in process of 
the carpet.
But Mr M says that the shading was present when the carpet was laid and so couldnt be 
down to usage. Mr M has not provided any evidence to show the state of the carpet on the day it was laid and he contacted the carpet fitter and manufacturer to discuss the shading 
after the carpet had been down for a few weeks. So I cant say on balance that the shading 
was present from the day the carpet was laid. 
Ive reviewed the photos provided by R and I can see similar shading on the carpet in the 
hallway and into the kitchen doorway. Ss report says the hallway carpet and the carpet into 
the kitchen doorway exhibit the same shading as that in front of the sofa. So, I am satisfied 
that shading is present in the carpet in the hallway and the kitchen doorway and that this is 
similar to the shading in front or Mr Ms sofa.
Given all of the above, I dont think the shading on the carpet in front of Mr Ms sofa is a 
manufacturing fault. I think the shading in front of the sofa is because the yarn has been 
compressed by resting feet. And I think that this type of shading is a normal characteristic of 
the carpet.
But Mr M said that Cs report didnt cover what it told him about the pile running the wrong 
way but I dont think C was suggesting there was a fault with the carpet.
Mr M feels that L&G told him that the shading was down to excessive wear which Mr M felt 
was untrue because Ss report said that it would be false to say the wear and tear to the 
carpet is excessive or even above average. But I cant see any evidence that L&G said ever 
said to Mr M that the wear was excessive. L&G mentioned tracking, movement, high traffic 
areas, usage and footfall, but I dont think these are the same as excessive wear. And Ss 
report said  whilst also saying the carpet had not been subjected to excessive wear  that 
the shading was part of the bedding in process. 
I can see there was a delay in L&G responding to Mr M after he sent it Ss report. L&G paid 
Mr M £50 for his trouble and upset, which I think is sufficient.  But because I dont think there 
is a fault with carpet replaced by L&G, Ill not be instructing L&G to do anything more than 
this. 
Mr M said to us he was unhappy because it took L&G until June 2019 to send someone out 
to inspect his carpet when he first reported the issue in March 2019. I am unable to consider 
this as part of this decision, because Mr M does not appear to have raised this point with 
L&G.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman