DRN-4205492
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the way QIC Europe Limited (QIC) handled their claim for 
two escapes of water.
Mr and Mrs A had buildings and contents insurance in joint names. For ease of reading, Ill 
refer mainly to Mr A throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr A claimed under his policy for a bathroom leak which also damaged his kitchen. QIC 
accepted the claim and carried out repairs. A few weeks after the repairs were completed, 
Mr A suffered another leak. This time, the leak was from the kitchen and originated from the 
area where QIC had been working.
Mr A made two complaints to QIC. 
1. QIC didnt include his damaged kitchen floor tiles in the first claim.
2. QIC caused the second leak by completing a faulty repair, so it should cover the 
repair cost within the first claim. Mr A didnt agree it should start a second claim.
QIC didnt uphold either of Mr As complaints, so he brought the matter to us.
The circumstances of Mr As claim are not in dispute, so I wont repeat the detail here. 
Instead, Ill focus on summarising the key issues, giving my reasons.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
First escape of water
Mr A said QIC incorrectly declined cover for the broken kitchen floor tiles. QIC said its 
surveyor didnt note any problems with the tiles until a later visit. Therefore, QIC believes the 
tile damage was due to wear and tear or accidental damage rather than caused by the first 
escape of water.
QICs evidence simply shows that the surveyor didnt note anything. But its not 
unreasonable to think that the floor tiles couldve cracked as part of the drying process, as 
explained by the expert surveyor. If that was the case, then the tiles would be part of the 
same overall claim, even if not evident until the repairs started.
However, subsequent events mean this issue of complaint has become irrelevant. QIC has 
agreed cover for the kitchen floor tiles as part of the second escape of water, so this issue of 
complaint will naturally be resolved.
Second escape of water
Mr A complains that QIC incorrectly treated the second escape of water as a new claim. He 
believes its contractors poor workmanship, or an equipment fault caused the replaced 
isolator valve to fail. QIC believes the escape of water was caused by water freezing in the 
pipe and it should, therefore, be classed as a second claim under the policy.
Ive considered this issue carefully and, on balance, Im not persuaded by QICs evidence 
that low temperatures caused the valve to crack. My reasons are as follows:
QIC provided evidence that the temperature was -3.6 Celsius on the day the pipe 
leaked. While that is undoubtedly below freezing, it was the outside temperature. I 
think its more likely than not that Mr As home was warmer than that inside, and 
therefore unlikely that the pipe under his kitchen sink, enclosed in a cupboard, would 
be the same low temperature. 
Although QIC provided evidence of an increase in claims for frozen pipes due to 
sudden low temperatures, I note the dates referred to in the article it provided were 
some ten days after Mr As claim.
QICs contractor fitted the valve and I understand they used the type considered to 
be good practice. Therefore, its reasonable to expect the valve to withstand 
temperatures commonly experienced during winter months. 
The valve cracked a matter of weeks after it was fitted. This suggests there couldve 
been a problem with the valve itself, or that it wasnt fitted correctly, such that the 
fluctuation in temperature had a greater effect than would otherwise be the case.
So, I think its more likely than not that the valve cracked because, for whatever reason, it 
wasn't fit for purpose, and Im not persuaded by QICs suggestion that the second escape of 
water was an unrelated claim. Therefore, QIC should handle all aspects of Mr As escape of 
water incidents as a single claim. If he has already paid the second excess fee, QIC should 
refund it.
Our investigator recommended that QIC pay £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr A. In light of the evidence of avoidable delays and 
disagreement over aspects of the first leak which werent included in the repair list, Im 
satisfied thats a fair and reasonable sum.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs As 
complaint, and QIC Europe Limited must:
Treat the two leaks as one claim, including the kitchen floor tiles.
Only charge one excess fee. If Mr A has already paid two, QIC should refund one of 
the fees.
Pay Mr and Mrs A £150 compensation for the shortfalls in service and avoidable 
inconvenience identified.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman