DRN-3430049
The complaint
Mr T complains Santander UK Plc unreasonably refused him consent to let the property 
over which his residential mortgage is secured. He says this led to a loss of rental income.
What happened
In 2015 Santander offered Mr T a residential mortgage of around £615,000 with a term of 25 
years and a fixed interest rate product for a period of five years.
In around July 2020 Mr T applied on-line for a new fixed term interest rate product. He 
said no restriction on letting the property was mentioned when he applied. And when 
Santander then refused consent to let, he complained.
Santander didnt uphold his complaint. They said hed indicated, when he applied on-line, 
he wasnt planning to move within the next six months, and the application process had 
continued based on that answer. Mr T felt the question didnt apply to him since he wasnt 
living in the property. Santander explained the deal Mr T was applying for was only 
available on the basis he occupied the property, so the question was relevant to him. And 
since hed taken the deal, they wouldnt agree to him letting the property initially. 
Santander said he could reapply for consent to let when he was three months into the 
product term. Santander later gave Mr T consent to let in November 2020.
Mr T wasnt happy with Santanders response to his complaint, so he brought it to this 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Broadly, she didnt agree with Mr T 
that Santander had failed to make clear in documents and on its website that taking out a 
new fixed interest rate product would affect getting consent to let. And she said consent to 
let was at Santanders discretion under the terms of his mortgage in any event. Mr T felt 
Santander had given conflicting information during the complaint. He wasnt happy with our 
investigators view. So, I considered everything afresh and recently issued a provisional 
decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons Ill explain, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Since my reasons 
differ in some respects to our investigators, Im issuing a provisional decision to give the 
parties the chance to comment before I come to a final decision.
I acknowledge Mr Ts strength of feeling about whats happened. Hes made some detailed 
arguments about the meaning of wording used in Santanders on-line application process 
for fixed term interest rate products and information published on their website. And hes 
raised issues about the legal construction of the mortgage contract. I havent set out all his 
points here or everything Santander has said. I dont intend to be discourteous. It simply 
reflects the informal nature of this service. Id like to reassure Mr T and Santander Ive 
reviewed everything theyve told this service in reaching my provisional conclusions.
Mr T got a letter from Santander in July 2020 letting him know his current mortgage deal 
was ending and explaining how to arrange a new interest rate product. The letter advised 
Mr T to get in touch with Santander if he was planning to make any changes to his 
mortgage, other than arranging a new interest rate, in case they impacted the rates 
available to him.
By this time Mr T wasnt living in the property and hed been trying to sell it. In July 2020, 
he decided to let the property for a year. I understand this was because of the impact the 
coronavirus pandemic had had on the property market.
Before taking steps to let the property, Mr T went through Santanders on-line process to 
apply for a new interest rate deal. He didnt think any of the changes to the mortgage 
Santander had highlighted as potentially affecting the deal he might be eligible for  either 
in the July 2020 letter or as part of the on-line application process - applied to him.
When Mr T then asked Santander for consent to let, they initially refused and said he could 
apply again in three months time. They said if Mr T had told them before hed applied for 
the new deal that he was planning to let the property, they would have discussed offering 
him other interest rates or moving to a buy to let mortgage. Mr T says Santanders refusal 
meant he had to decline an offer hed received in August 2020 to let the property. He 
calculates hes lost £12,425 in rent as a result and thinks Santander should reimburse him 
for that.
Mr T says Santander failed to tell him about their consent to let policy in a way that 
was clear, fair and not misleading. He doesnt accept Santanders argument he should 
have indicated during the on-line application that he was moving home or considering 
moving home within the next six months. He says that question assumed he was living 
at the property, which he wasnt. Mr T felt the process was unclear.
Mr T relies on information on Santanders website to support his arguments. For 
example, he says consent to let is discussed as part of managing a mortgage rather 
than as a change to the mortgage. And he says when he applied for the new product, 
the website didnt mention that consent to let would depend on a customer having 
transferred to a new deal over three months ago.
Having thought carefully about what the parties have said, I think there are two main issues 
I need to consider here:
1) Did Santander set out in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading, before 
Mr T applied to switch his interest rate product, that they may not give consent 
to let?
2) Did Santander unreasonably refuse to consider Mr Ts application for consent to 
let in August 2020?
Ill consider each issue in turn.
Did Santander set out in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading, 
before Mr T applied to switch his interest rate product, that they may not 
give consent to let?
The starting point here is the terms and conditions of Mr Ts mortgage.The mortgage offer Santander made to Mr T in July 2015 was for a residential mortgage. It 
set out at Part C, details of conditions that were a term of Mr Ts mortgage. In particular, 
the offer said that:
The mortgage was provided on the basis at least 40% of the property would 
be usedas a dwelling by Mr T or a related person.
Mr T must occupy the whole of the property on completion and throughout the 
mortgage, free from any tenancies or third party rights of occupation unless 
Santander agreed otherwise elsewhere in the mortgage terms and conditions  
which they didnt here - or separately in writing. If Mr T wanted to let the property, 
he needed Santanders written consent which they could give at their discretion on 
terms they considered  appropriate.
I think the offer was clear, fair and not misleading and Mr T should have understood from 
it that he or a related person should occupy the property; he would need Santanders 
written consent if he wanted to let the property; and Santander had discretion about 
whether or not to give their consent.
The letter Mr T received from Santander in July 2020 said he should ring them to discuss 
his plans if he was thinking of making any changes to his mortgage. It set out a list of 
possible changes  but not an exclusive list - that might impact the new deals available to 
him. And it recommended he call Santander to discuss his plans so they could let him 
know. Similar information appeared when Mr T made the on-line application.
Ive thought about the information Mr T saw on Santanders website when he made the 
application for the interest rate product. Mr T says he took a screenshot when he was 
putting his complaint together to bring to this service. At the time it said a customer may be 
able to let their property if theyd had their mortgage for six months and werent in arrears.
Santander say the website changed in around 2019 to add that any new deal the 
customer had taken out had to be over three months old.
Mr Ts provided detailed information about this issue and Santander have provided only a 
brief explanation. On balance, I think its more likely than not that, when Mr T made his 
application for the interest rate product, Santanders website didnt mention theyd only 
consider a consent to let application after a customer had had a new deal for three 
months.
However, I dont think that makes a difference to Mr Ts position. He received Santanders 
interest rate offer after hed been through the on-line application process. The offer 
attached Santanders general mortgage conditions. They contained similar information to 
the terms set out in the 2015 offer. They said, amongst other things:
Mr T agreed to occupy the whole of the property as his main residence;
He must not let the property unless the offer allowed it  which it didnt  or he 
later let the property with Santanders consent; and
Santander should not unreasonably refuse consent.
Again, I think the information was clear, fair and not misleading even though it wasnt 
as prominent as it had been in the 2015 offer.
I acknowledge the letter and the on-line process Mr T went through didnt specifically 
mention that letting the property might be a change that affected the interest rate deals available to him. I accept the information on Santanders website treats consent to let as 
part of managing a mortgage rather than a change. And Ive said Santanders website 
probably didnt mention a customer might be able to let their property only after a new deal 
had been in place for three months.
But, considering all the information available to Mr T, I think Santander did enough to put 
him on notice that his plan to let the property out might not succeed, as it was always 
subject to their consent. Mr T had been hoping to sell the property and, when that didnt 
happen, he planned to change its use by letting it. Mr T risked breaching the terms of his 
mortgage if he or a related person didnt occupy the property. I think he understood that.   
Mr T knew he needed consent to let, as he applied for it shortly after taking out the new 
interest rate product.
Arguably Mr T was already in breach of the mortgage conditions as he was no longer living 
in the property. That was a change he ought to have notified Santander about even before 
they wrote to him in July 2020. I think he ought to have realised when he got the letter, if 
not before, that there had been a change in his circumstances that he should tell 
Santander about, given the terms of the mortgage.
Bearing everything in mind, on balance, I would have expected Mr T to contact Santander 
to discuss his plans with them. He could have done that by making a phone call.
Did Santander unreasonably refuse to consider Mr Ts application within 
the three month period?
Mr T argues Santander failed to consider his application because their policy was not to 
give consent to let within three months of taking a new fixed interest rate deal. He says 
relying on the policy amounts to an unreasonable refusal to give consent in breach of the 
terms of the mortgage.
Santander declined Mr Ts application on grounds hed recently transferred to a new 
product that was for residential mortgages. They said if hed made them aware he was 
intending to let the property when he was taking the new product, they would have offered 
him products from their buy to let range.
Mr T argues Santanders policy behind their decision was to disincentivise borrowers from 
applying for a new fixed interest rate and then immediately applying for consent to let. But 
since he didnt know that was the policy when he applied, it wasnt fair for Santander to 
apply it.
I wouldnt expect Santander to have published their policy on their website or as part of 
the on-line application process, as its commercially sensitive information. But theyve 
explained it to this service, and Im satisfied they havent applied it unfairly to Mr T. Theres 
no evidence Santander have treated other customers in a similar position to Mr Ts 
differently. And Mr T was aware from information Santander gave him, and which I 
discussed above, that consent to let was at Santanders discretion.
I dont think Santander has breached the terms of Mr Ts mortgage contract. He argues 
terms should be implied to that contract that Santander should use their discretion  that 
is, actively consider consent to let applications - and act reasonably when doing so. Ive 
mentioned the offer for the new product said Santander shouldnt unreasonably refuse 
consent to let. Detailed consideration of how the mortgage contract should be interpreted 
is more suited to the courts. But, looking at the facts and considering things on the basis 
of whats fair and reasonable, as I must, I think Santander did consider Mr Ts application 
and acted reasonably at the time in declining it based on their policy.Finally, I note the interest rate product Mr T took out was a tracker mortgage. There 
werent any penalties for ending the deal early. Once Mr T knew he wouldnt get consent 
to let, it was open to him to discuss his plans to let the property with Santander and agree 
suitable borrowing arrangements with them. In the end Santander gave him consent to let. 
So, hes benefiting from a lower rate than he might otherwise have been able to agree if 
hed spoken to them at the outset.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I appreciate it will be disappointing for Mr T, I dont 
intend to uphold his complaint.
My provisional decision
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Developments
Santander didnt have any comments to make on my provisional decision. Mr T has provided 
detailed comments which Ill address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr T would like me to respond to each of the comments hes made. But the 
Financial Ombudsman provides an informal dispute resolution service. And I wont be 
addressing the points Mr Ts made individually or in the format hed prefer. I will, however, 
comment more broadly, by reference to the headings Mr T has used, having thought 
carefully about everything hes said.
Comments on the Importance of the Change to the Santander Website
Mr Ts disputed what the website said when he made his application, although its not clear 
he referred to the website at the time he made the application for the fixed rate product. 
Ive accepted it was more likely than not that, when Mr T applied for the product switch, 
Santanders website didnt mention a customer might be able to let their property only after 
a new deal had been in place for three months. So, whilst I understand Mr T feels 
Santander misrepresented the position on their website, I dont think its necessary to look 
into that issue any further. 
I thought about the website information in reaching my provisional decision as to whether it 
was fair and reasonable for Santander not to agree Mr Ts application. Even though I think 
the website probably didnt mention the three months, it didnt suggest either that an 
application would be approved, just that it might be. So, even if Mr T had seen the 
information at the time, it wouldnt have given him any more certainty about whether an 
application would succeed than he had already.
Mr T questioned my comment that I wouldnt expect Santander to publish their policies on 
grounds they are commercially sensitive. He said they had published their policy  albeit 
incorrectly  in relation to when theyd consider consent to let applications. 
To clarify, Santander - like other banks - have criteria sitting behind their policies which are 
determined by their commercial and risk appetite and policy choices, as well as the regulatory environment in which they operate. They are confidential and commercially 
sensitive. Santanders decisions about what they publish may differ from other lenders. 
So, whilst Santanders website sets out their broad policy, I wouldnt expect the detail of how 
they apply that policy to be publicly available. Just because Santander didnt publish the 
reasons behind their consent to let policy, or set out the policy in full, doesnt mean it isnt fair 
for them to apply the policy. As Ive said, what was available on-line did not say Santander 
would give consent to let, just that they might. 
Factual Corrections and Evidential Clarifications
Mr Ts unclear about whether he saw the terms and conditions of the mortgage attached to 
the product switch offer. He says the offer he received from Santander after hed made his 
on-line application was an emailed, password-protected link to the Santander website and 
the email itself didnt attach terms and conditions. Santanders provided a copy of the offer 
which included the terms and conditions. The covering letter made clear they formed part of 
the contract Mr T was entering into and said, Its very important that you and all other 
parties to the mortgage read all of the information provided. I think Mr T probably saw the 
terms and conditions. But he could have asked for a copy if they werent made available to 
him at the time.
Although the requirement for Mr T to occupy the property himself wasnt set out in the offer 
itself, as it had been in the 2015 mortgage offer - which is why I said it was less prominent in 
2020 - it was clearly set out in the terms and conditions. 
In any event, Mr Ts accepted consent to let was never certain and was aware Santander 
might withhold consent to let if they had a reasonable reason to do so. That reinforces my 
view that, knowing what he did, Mr T ought reasonably to have contacted Santander to 
discuss his circumstances before going ahead with the product switch. 
Mr Ts unhappy I mentioned possible breaches by him of the mortgage terms and conditions 
since Santander hadnt previously raised them. I acknowledge Mr T was trying to make the 
best of his difficult situation. But I think its fair to point out that Mr T ought to have contacted 
Santander to let them know about his situation given the terms and conditions of his 
mortgage. Its right for me to look at the whole picture in reaching a decision about whats 
fair and reasonable to both parties. 
Mr T says he told Santander about his change of address and they ought to have realised 
from that he was no longer living at the mortgaged property. He says the July 2020 letter 
didnt ask if his circumstances had changed.
Santanders records suggest Mr T updated his contact details in October 2020. I 
acknowledge Santander wrote to Mr T at an alternative address in July 2020 which supports 
his evidence that he told them sooner. Its not clear, though, whether Mr T told Santander he 
was no longer using the mortgaged property as his residence.  I dont think they would 
necessarily have known that, even if hed asked them to write to a different address earlier 
than October 2020. 
I explained in my provisional decision why I think, bearing in mind all of the information Mr T 
had available to him, he ought to have contacted Santander to discuss his circumstances by 
phone  even if the July 2020 letter didnt specifically ask if his circumstances had changed. 
I dont think the issue of when Santander knew or ought to have known Mr T was no longer 
living in the mortgaged property affects that.
I acknowledge Mr T approached Santander to discuss his options to let the property after his 
application was declined. Ill address that below. Comments on the Draft [Provisional] Decision
Mr T says Ive misstated his complaint. He says it isnt whether Santander set out in a way 
that was clear, fair and not misleading, before he applied to switch his interest rate product, 
that they may not give consent to let, but that the on-line process did not tell him that, by 
accepting the new mortgage rate, his rights in relation to letting the property could be 
affected. Mr T says the appropriate question to ask is, Was Santanders instruction to Mr T 
to use the Santander telephone line, rather than the online service, clear, fair and not 
misleading? And, if so, when was that message received by Mr T?
Ive considered Mr Ts arguments carefully. However the question is put, I think its 
appropriate to look at the July 2020 letter and application process in context rather than 
looking at them in isolation. Mr Ts acknowledged he needed consent to let. Although hes 
also said his right to consent to let was impacted by what happened, I dont think thats 
correct, since consent to let was at Santanders discretion  Mr T didnt have a right to be 
given consent to let. I still think, on balance, for the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision, that Mr T had enough clear information to put him on notice he should check things 
with Santander before switching. 
Mr T doesnt agree with the second question I asked. He says there are two appropriate 
questions: Did Santander consider Mr Ts application for consent to let; and, If Santander 
did consider Mr Ts application for consent to let, did Santander act unreasonably in 
declining it?
I addressed both those issues in my provisional decision. 
Mr Ts questioned my conclusion that Santander considered his application. To clarify, they 
considered it to the extent of deciding it fell outside their policy and hed need to apply later. 
I thought about whether Santander had applied their policy fairly and provisionally decided 
they had. Ive explained above the grounds on which Santander keep their criteria 
confidential. And since they are confidential, I havent set them out in my decision.
Mr T says declining consent was unreasonable because, in summary, he suffered a loss of 
income as a result, granting consent would have had no financial consequences for 
Santander, he didnt know about the policy and Santander failed to offer him a solution that 
allowed him to accept the tenancy offer hed received.
I acknowledge Mr T missed out on rental income. Ive already considered Mr Ts argument 
he didnt know about the policy. And Ill consider Mr Ts concern Santander failed to offer a 
solution below.
As to the financial consequences of consent to let for Santander, where a borrower lets a 
property, it increases the lenders risk of enforcing its security should the need arise. If the 
borrower fails to pay, and it becomes necessary to take possession, that becomes 
potentially more difficult and more costly if the property is tenanted. Its reasonable for 
lenders to consider the basis on which and the price at which they will lend before agreeing 
a property may be let. So, its fair that Santander has restrictions on when it will allow 
consent to let and on what basis. 
Mitigation
I acknowledge Mr T spoke to Santander about his options after theyd refused him consent 
to let. He says they gave him no alternative but to apply for consent once three months had 
passed and they wouldnt consider switching his mortgage to buy to let (BTL) terms then. He doesnt remember the reason for that. And I acknowledge Mr T approached a broker to 
see if he could get BTL terms with another lender but was told applications were taking 
several months, due to backlogs resulting from the coronavirus pandemic. 
It's unfortunate Mr T couldnt find suitable borrowing arrangements with Santander or 
elsewhere that allowed him to let the property straight away. But I dont think that affects 
the outcome of his complaint about whether Santanders refusal to allow consent to let was 
fair and reasonable.
Ive carefully considered everything Mr T has said. Whilst I understand hell be 
disappointed, Im satisfied Santander provided information that was sufficiently clear to put 
Mr T on notice he should discuss his situation with them before applying for the new rate, 
and that they treated him fairly and reasonably in line with the terms of his mortgage and 
their consent to let policy. Bearing everything in mind, I dont uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman