DRN-3590365
The complaint
Mrs J says the advice given and the arrangements made by Pi Financial Ltd (PFL), to switch 
her personal pension into an Intelligent Money Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP), with a 
discretionary fund management (DFM) arrangement with Mayfair Capital Ltd (MCL) and the 
resulting investments, was unsuitable.
Mrs J is represented by CP Financial Claims (CPFC).
Pi Financial is represented by Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP (RPC).
What happened
Mrs J received advice from a firm called M&S Financial Solutions Limited. At the time of 
the events complained about it was an appointed representative (AR) of PFL. As principal, 
PFL is responsible for the acts and omissions of its agent. To keep things simple, Ill just 
refer to PFL in my decision.
Mrs J says she was introduced to PFL after it had provided advice to her husband about 
his pension arrangements. She said she had a few small pots and wanted them 
consolidated. During March 2017 it gathered information about her objectives, 
circumstances and attitude to risk. It also made contact with her then personal pension 
provider to gather data on her existing provision.
Mrs Js objectives were recorded in the following terms:
-When discussing your financial needs, aims and goals, we identified that you had 
not kept track of your pensions and would now like to know how they are invested, 
opportunities in the market today in terms of diversifying how your pension assets 
are held. You wanted to invest some monies in more exciting asset classes. 
-We also considered the importance of having my ongoing service commitment 
and keeping your pension on track to meet your needs, aims and goals which is 
a fundamental part of the service we provide.
-You have no plans to pay into your pension, however, you do have a company 
final salary pension which should be of significance.
-You are looking to retire on a minimum income of £1,200 in your bank a month. 
As it stands, even with state pension at age 67, your pot will quickly run out, 
most likely in your mid-70s. The good news is given that you hold other 
investments and with your other pension this gives you scope to be more 
adventurous with the new pension scheme in hope for a better return.
-Your husband has completed a similar exercise and you wish to pursue the idea 
of investing via a broker. Although the pension pot is not large you wish to give 
it a good shot to make some decent returns You were not previously aware this 
sort of service would be available to you.
PFL produced a suitability report for Mrs J dated 7 August 2017. In summary 
it recommended she should:
- Switch her existing Old Mutual Wealth (OMW) personal pension into an 
Intelligent Money SIPP.
- Invest the funds in line with her assessed balanced attitude to risk through a 
DFM arrangement with MCL.
Mrs J accepted PFLs recommendations and the switch went ahead, with about £40,700 
moving from her OMW plan into her new SIPP on 5 October 2017. PFL were paid fees 
of around £1,930 for the initial advice and the first year of its ongoing service on 6 
October 2017. Aside from SIPP fees, the balance was paid to MCL on 13 October 2017 
for investing.
In September 2020, on behalf of Mrs J, CPFC raised several concerns with PFL about what 
had happened to her pension arrangements in 2017. It said the advice to move from her 
existing pension had been unsuitable. She had a low appetite for risk and capacity for loss. 
It said the investments made with her pension funds had been inappropriate. It said Mrs J 
had incurred unnecessary costs as a result of the transaction. And that she had suffered 
significant financial detriment as a result of its actions.
PFL refuted Mrs Js complaint. It said her former pension provided poor performance and 
service; the contract lacked flexibility. It said given her knowledge, experience and appetite 
for risk, the switch to the SIPP with an active management arrangement had been suitable. 
It noted that as she was a member of a defined benefit (DB) scheme and had other assets, 
using her personal pension fund in the way it recommended was appropriate.
The Investigator reviewed Mrs Js complaint and upheld it. She had concerns about the 
advice PFL provided, in particular in relation to matters such as costs of the new 
arrangement and disclosure of these; the risk appetite assessment; and fund 
management.
PFL disagreed with the Investigators findings and conclusions. It maintained its advice had 
been suitable. It also said MCL had a direct relationship with Mrs J and that it was 
responsible for all investment advice given to her. It noted her accusation that her funds 
had been placed in in unregulated and high-risk investments and that these were now 
valueless. It argues in this situation the chain of causation had been broken by MCL failing 
to adhere to the original agreement between the parties.
As both parties didnt agree with the Investigators view, Mrs Js complaint was passed to 
me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision in June. PFL, through its 
representative, provided further evidence and arguments in support of its case. Im grateful 
for its submission which Ive carefully considered. Where new material issues have been 
raised, Ive dealt with them in this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, 
my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mrs Js case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by PFL for Mrs J. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G 
in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence.
- Principle 3 - which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control 
its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of it s 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at 
the relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like PFL. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mrs Js complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment 
business carried on for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business 
includes arranging (bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the 
advice was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information 
regarding: the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to 
the advice; their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at 
their circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those 
wants or needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the 
switch?
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in Mrs Js best interests to make 
the advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made 
between her former pensions and the recommended new arrangement.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted 
four key issues it thought should be focussed on:
-Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive 
than their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good 
reason? This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a 
guaranteed annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their 
recorded attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a 
need for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in 
place.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about 
SIPPs. For example, in April 2014 it issued an industry alert which said:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, 
then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be 
held within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as 
it will not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Further, when considering the use of a DFM, the regulator has made clear that 
amongst other matters, firms need to take into account issues such as:
- Likely cost: do the overall costs justify the potential for improved performance?
- Size of funds under management: once a consumer has a moderately-sized fund, 
they may benefit from a model portfolio which is rebalanced automatically by a 
DFM ranging all the way up to bespoke arrangements for clients with larger funds.
- Investors knowledge and experience: FCA has said the adviser needed a 
reasonable belief that the investor could understand the nature of the risks of 
the underlying investments the DFM might make.
- Level of disclosure: whether the benefits vs costs of the arrangement were 
explained to the investor in terms they were likely to (or appeared to) understand.
Its also relevant to consider whether a particular DFM was appropriate. The approach 
each firm takes to managing funds and interacting with the adviser and investor is 
different. So different DFMs might be suitable for clients in different situations. Several 
factors are relevant in this case.
The conduct of proper due diligence. If an adviser relied only on prepared literature, 
weaknesses in the DIMs operations may have been overlooked. Features that an 
adviser should consider in their due diligence include:
- Variation in cost structures between DFMs - some charge per transaction they 
make, in addition to an annual charge.
- What was the DFMs typical investment philosophy (in terms of assets they 
preferred), whether this was a model portfolio or not? Would those assets be 
appropriate?
- Whilst past performance cant be relied upon, it can provide an indication of the 
degree of success the DFM might have in future. If it didnt have a track record this 
would reasonably have increased the enquiries the adviser should have made.
The regulator was clear there was a positive obligation on the adviser to carry out this 
research, rather than supplying the DFM with a risk rating and hoping all will be right in the end. They were recommending a DFM as a solution to their clients needs and that 
meant looking under the bonnet.
Also, how the DFM will specifically invest this investors funds. Did the adviser obtain a 
current breakdown of assets in any proposed model portfolio, and the DFMs guidelines 
as to how it manages those assets? How did the adviser ensure that its attitude to risk 
scale mapped appropriately across to the DFMs? And if the DFMs mandate wasnt 
sufficiently limited, did it agree appropriate restrictions on what it was and wasnt allowed 
to invest in?
If there was no specific agreement between the adviser and the DFM, how could it be 
sure that the DFM had accepted responsibility for risk-mapping the advisers score to its 
portfolios?
What instructions did the adviser give the DFM on the attitude to risk or model portfolio 
to use? Did the adviser effectively give the fund manager freedom to do as it thought 
appropriate? If this has happened the adviser will have a responsibility for what 
subsequently  particularly given their obligations to act in the clients best interests.
Was the DFMs initial asset selection broadly consistent with its mandate? What 
due diligence did the adviser carry out at the beginning? Did the DFM fail to get the 
asset allocation right from the outset, or did things gradually wander off course?
If the DFM departed from the mandate, did the adviser react to this? Regulatory guidance 
and industry best practice required the adviser to monitor the DFMs ongoing performance, 
having agreed a schedule for information to be exchanged between them. Could any 
losses caused by the DFM have been avoided by the advisers actions?
Did PFL meet the regulatory obligations it was bound by when advising Mrs J?
I dont think PFL met the requirements placed on it in this case. Ill explain why.
There are several documents relating to PFLs transaction with Mrs J that are important 
to my consideration, these include the fact-find, risk appetite questionnaire, pension 
replacement contract form and the suitability report.
PFL recorded that Mrs J was 51 at the time of the advice. She was married and had one 
dependent child. She worked full time as a financial controller earning £30,000. Her 
husband earned around £17,000. Details of their monthly household expenditure was scant 
 with the record suggesting this was £800.
No liabilities were recorded for Mrs and Mr J. They owned their home, which was said to be 
worth £180,000. She also had £30,000 in an ISA. Mrs J was said to have some experience 
of investments but that her knowledge was limited. Shed never previously received 
financial advice.
Mrs J anticipated retiring at 65. Her OMW personal pension had a transfer value of around 
£40,700. She wasnt totally dependent on this provision. For example, she was a member of 
a DB scheme  although details about how significant this was to her retirement planning 
wasnt captured. Its also recorded that she thought a net monthly pension of about £1,200 
would be required.
There are some basic problems here with the information PFL has provided. For example, 
the suitability report seems to imply the £1,200 pension income requirement is for Mrs J. 
But there is an adviser file note which suggests its a household target. Theres output from a retirement modeller which indicates the £1,200 figure was gross not net. The advisers 
note also suggests he was working to a retirement age for her of 67, not 65. These 
inconsistencies cause obvious problems.
At a basic level, I cant see evidence of modelling carried out by PFL which shows how the 
advice it gave Mrs J in 2017, came together to deliver her income requirements in 
retirement. 
What was the value of her deferred defined DB pension likely to be when she retired? In 
responding to my provisional decision, RPC says shed been asked to obtain that 
information but had never done so. It needed the information in order to deliver robust 
advice, so why didnt it seek her authority to liaise with her DB provider? Why did it go 
ahead without this information? RPCs response on these matters is inadequate.
We asked Mrs J about her DB pension. She told us:
I have no problem sharing details of my employers salary scheme, but want to stress that at 
the time this was arranged I didn't have many details on it myself, so it had absolutely no 
bearing on this as the IFA and pension people had no details on it.
It is calculated on length of service and salary, and I have recently found out that I can draw 
it at aged 60 if I'm still employed (obviously with a reduction for reduced service). If I leave 
the business I cannot draw until I am 65 (again with a reduction for reduced service). At the 
moment the amount I will receive at aged 60 (if I retire early) will be around £16k per annum.
PFL didnt have the information it needed to understand what returns Mrs J needed to 
achieve with her personal pension, in order to meet the stated objective for her / her 
households income in retirement. Indeed, it seems possible that her DB benefits together 
with her state pension entitlement wouldve already been sufficient to meet her retirement 
income requirements (as recorded by PFL).
This seems to be confirmed by a statement Mrs J chose on the risk assessment 
questionnaire she completed. From four statements describing her other pension 
provisions, she selected the one which said she had sufficient pension and savings to 
provide an income equivalent to two thirds of her anticipated pre-retirement salary. I 
should make clear however, such a limited tick box exercise based on her own perception 
of the situation is clearly not a substitute for rigorous financial and retirement planning.
I think such analysis wouldve been important to her being able to take an informed 
decision about what to do with her personal pension. Instead PFL seems to have 
focussed on this element of her provision and when it might run out, in isolation from her 
other pensions.
PFLs role wasnt simply to facilitate what Mrs J wanted. She mayve wanted to invest in 
more exciting or interesting assets. But of course planning for an income in retirement is 
a serious, complicated and some might say mundane matter. She mayve been attracted 
to using a DFM arrangement because thats what her husband was doing. But PFL knew 
his circumstances, experience and needs were different to hers. She mayve wanted to 
improve the growth prospects of her personal pension. But did she need to, given her 
retirement income objective, and what exactly was the prospect on offer?
PFL was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mrs J 
about what was in her best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up 
over many years are to provide for a retirement income. So, these fundamental problems with PFLs approach undermined any rationale for the 
switch of Mrs Js personal pension.
PFL recommended Mrs J switch her OMW personal pension into an Intelligent Money 
SIPP, with a DFM arrangement with MCL and to invest in balanced risk assets. There are 
a number of other significant weaknesses with its advice.
Charges
PFL charged Mrs J £1,546 for its initial advice, that was 4% of her fund value.
In its suitability report dated 7 August 2017, PFL noted the charges for her SIPP and the 
underlying funds were likely to be higher than those Mrs J was being charged by OMW 
but that she believed these would be recovered by higher growth. PFL needed to be clear 
about the costs. I thought it was being ambiguous. 
In responding to my provisional decision RPC argues PFL was clear in its suitability 
report and the Pension Replacement Contract form what charges Mrs J would incur. I 
disagree. While the cost to switch appears reasonably clear, arguably the more important 
analysis of what ongoing costs would be, and the effect of these on any returns her new 
arrangements might achieve, wasnt transparent.
Mrs J was being charged a total of about £100 a year (0.25% of her fund value) by OMW. 
The new arrangement would mean shed pay about £536 each year (including ongoing 
advice fees, a service it said was appropriate in her situation). This is a substantial uplift 
and doesnt even include costs related to the DFMs activities.
RPC says Mrs J opted for the arrangements recommended by PFL because she wanted 
the opportunity to improve the performance of her pension funds. But it wasnt for her to 
be the judge in terms of the prospects for improved investment returns under MCLs 
management  PFL needed to provide its assessment.
PFL provided analysis showing the performance of Mrs Js existing personal pensions. 
Over the previous five years her OMW plan had achieved growth of 24%. Over the 
previous three years growth was 8.4%. In order to exceed the drag of increased costs and 
then provide an improved return on investment, there needed to be a reasonable prospect 
of significant performance improvement under the new arrangements.
But Ive not seen what yield PFL was targeting with its recommendation. Indeed, the fund 
manager it proposed was only established in 2016 and became regulated in April 2017. So, 
it seems there couldnt have been any historical performance data to show whether any 
projections available were realistic.
PFL hasnt done enough to satisfy me there was a clear potential for Mrs J to be better off, 
compared to her then existing personal pension, as a result of its recommendations, given 
the fees and charges she was incurring and the nature of the investment strategy it was 
recommending.
Risk
Mrs J completed a risk appetite assessment. PFL said she was a balanced investor. It 
went on to describe this in the following terms:
Balanced investors typically have moderate levels of knowledge about investment 
matters and will pay some attention to keeping up to date with investment matters. They may have some experience of investment, including investing in products containing 
riskier assets such as equities and bonds.
In general, balanced investors understand that they have to take investment risk in order 
to be able to meet their long-term goals. They are likely to be willing to take risk with part 
of their available assets.
Balanced investors will usually be able to make up their minds on investment 
matters relatively quickly, but do still suffer from some feelings of regret when their 
investment decisions turn out badly.
With the other assets in the background, you said your capacity for loss on this 
investment is about a third and if it was higher than this then you would retire later and 
rely more upon your husband. You have sufficient accessible funds in case of an 
emergency. You are accepting of risk and realise you have to take risk to achieve 
potential growth.
Id start by noting that Mrs Js existing OMW personal pension as invested was assessed as 
being in line with her balanced appetite for risk. So, PFL wasnt proposing a change in 
exposure in terms of overall investment risk.
I think the assessment PFL conducted of Mrs Js risk appetite was a reasonable starting 
point. Mrs J wasnt a novice in investment matters and she understood that to gain 
better returns she had to take some risks. She wanted to take some risk. She had a 15 
year horizon. She wanted returns in excess of inflation over the medium term.
In responding to my provisional decision, RPC advanced a case that suggested Mrs J had 
significant experience of investments. It said:
the Mayfair Capital application to open a SIPP (signed by Mrs J on 11 October 2017) 
provides that Mrs J traded between 3 to 40 collective investments, bonds and Major Shares 
each year, with an average trade size of £5,000, by an advisory service for 10 yearsMrs J 
also had shares (such as Alternative Investment Market shares and mall Cap Shares, Illiquid 
Shares & Equity Placings), which she traded less than 3 times a year with an average trade 
size of £5,000. Mrs J therefore had previous investment experience
The SIPP application also provided that there were not any type of products, investment or 
markets that Mrs J did not want to invest in, and that she understood the risks associated 
with her choice of products. She also stated that she did not have a limit (i) to the maximum 
monetary value that she was prepared to risk on any individual trade, (ii) the maximum 
number of Advisory Only trades with Mayfair on a monthly basis and (iii) the maximum 
number of Discretionary Only trades with Mayfair on a monthly basis.
The information gathered by PFL about her knowledge and experience presents a 
somewhat different picture. From 13 products that were set out for her, she identified 
experience of using a building society account; a regular savings vehicle such as an 
endowment or friendly society bonds; and regular/single premium personal pension 
contracts.
She went on to detail that she had £30,000 savings in her building society. That she paid 
£30 a month into an endowment policy. And that shed made regular contributions to a 
pension, and then had moved her accumulated contributions as a single premium.
The Investigator asked Mrs J to explain the contradictions between what shed told PFL at 
the outset about her investment experience and what had later been recorded on her SIPP 
application. She is adamant that the PFL fact-find was accurate. She couldnt explain how MCL had captured the information shown on her application, but did note shed been 
asked to sign a number of forms and couldnt recall all details. 
Ive thought carefully about this matter. Firstly, I note that the MCL application asked Mrs J 
about her overall understanding of general financial and economic affairs. The options 
were none; limited; good; and extensive. Mrs J recorded she had limited understanding. 
Further, I place more weight on the information PFL gathered in preparation for its advice, 
than the information gathered by MCL after the switch of her funds had been given effect. 
Thats because the information captured by PFL was itemised and clear. Mrs J also went 
on to provide details about the products shed used. On the other hand, the information as 
presented from the MCL form brigades products together. Its not clear exactly what she 
was confirming about her experience.
On balance, I dont think Mrs J was particularly knowledgeable about investment and 
pension matters. Of course, thats why she sought professional advice from PFL. In this 
context I note certain of her responses to the risk questionnaire that are at odds with the 
assessment it made.
For example, given the choice between four portfolios, with one being the most stable and 
four being the most volatile, Mrs J selected number two. She also said shed be concerned 
if the value of her investments fell by more than 10% in a year. And that shed ask the 
adviser to shift assets into less volatile investments. While shed consider increasing her 
risk exposure to secure higher returns, shed only do so with 25% of her fund.
I wouldve expected PFL to have got to the bottom of some of the tensions between Mrs Js 
responses to different questions. I cant see that happened. Rather, it appears to have 
relied on a number that dropped out of the assessment without further scrutiny. In doing so 
it wasnt treating her with due care and skill.
In its suitability report, PFL explained to Mrs J that her funds would be invested in a 
balanced portfolio. It set out the typical assets that she might hold in this, including 
global equities (48%), government bonds (20%), corporate bonds (15%), smaller 
equities (15%) and cash (2%). It said:
This is a guideline to which Mayfair Capital Ltd will invest within, an exact portfolio will be 
drafted upon a discussion with yourself to gain an understanding of your current financial 
situation and investment objectives before working with you to maximise performance 
within the boundaries of your appetite for risk. There could be additional costs as this will 
depend on the underlying investments.
Its a problem for PFL that it didnt have a handle on the investments Mrs J would be 
making in her new SIPP. The regulator required that it took a close interest in where Mrs 
Js funds would be placed. Generic descriptions about the sort of investments her pension 
might make wasnt sufficient. If the underlying investment wasnt suitable, then the advice 
wasnt suitable.
PFL said it chose MCL as fund manager for Mrs J because:
At Mayfair Capital Ltd they recognise that each of their clients' requirements are different, 
which is why they allocate a dedicated Investment Manager to be your personal point of 
contact. Your manager will seek to gain an understanding of your current financial 
situation and investment objectives before working with you to maximise performance 
within the boundaries of your appetite for risk.It doesnt appear as though PFL told Mrs J about the lack of performance data for 
MCL, given it was a relatively new entrant to the market. This added more risk into the 
mix. It shouldve been more fulsome about this. It shouldve set out why using this 
DFM was a better option than more established fund managers.
Mrs J wasnt investing all her pension assets. Her deferred membership of her DB scheme 
would remain intact. And it seems her husband had a reasonable pension provision, 
although theres nothing on her file about this. So, I do think she had some capacity for 
loss given her overall financial circumstances and how long she had to go until retirement. 
But this wasnt unbounded.
The problem for PFL, as Ive mentioned previously, is that we dont know how important 
her personal pension funds were with respect to achieving her objectives. Did she really 
need to expose her funds to the increased costs she was taking on in order to meet her 
retirement income objective? And the fund management arrangements really dont appear 
appropriate for her situation, as Ill now explore in more detail.
Ongoing fund management
Mrs J is said to have wanted her funds to be spread across a range of investment 
choices. She wanted her funds actively managed by an expert. Id note that the OMW 
personal pension she had was an actively managed portfolio. Its not clear she wouldve 
appreciated this from the suitability report PFL provided. Nor that she couldve chosen up 
to 100 funds from the 500 it had available. Its not clear these matters were explored 
effectively with her.
Mrs J hadnt used an adviser service before. And she hadnt been in a DFM arrangement 
previously. The concept was introduced by PFL. There was a duty of care on it to make 
sure the firm it was recommending was appropriate for her. But its not clear to me she 
wouldve had a clear idea about the added value being provided by MCL and PFL 
respectively. Yet she was paying a lot of money for both services.
PFL said of MCL:
At Mayfair Capital Ltd they have a different approach to investment services. Rather than 
slotting you into someone else's financial model, they custom build a service around you. 
The type of service you choose will be determined by how actively involved you want to be 
in the management of your investments and how confident you are with monitoring the 
balance of risk and reward yourself.
Their approach is to listen to our clients' needs then tailor an investment strategy that fits 
their investment objectives, knowledge, experience and financial resources. Inherent 
within our culture is the belief that an approachable and dependable relationship with all 
their clients will surpass their expectations for service and value. This is achieved by 
allocating each individual client their own qualified personal investment manager who 
centres the service around them.
Its difficult to understand how PFL could recommend MCL based on its different approach 
to investment services. I say this because MCL was registered with the FCA in April 2017, 
only a few months before PFL recommended it to Mrs J.
PFL has said its compliance director carried out due diligence into MCL. And that 
following the exercise it was accepted as one of its permitted investment houses.A key element of PFLs recommendation for Mrs J to switch her personal pension into the 
Intelligent Money SIPP appears to have been the expectation the DFM investment 
portfolio would perform better than her existing plan. If thats the case then it begs the 
question, on what that expectation was based upon?
MCL was a newly registered business. It had no track record of investment performance. 
Whilst past performance cant be relied upon, it can provide an indication of the degree of 
success the DFM might have in future. If it didnt have a track record this would 
reasonably have increased the enquiries PFL shouldve made.
Mrs J had limited investment experience, but she wasnt a sophisticated investor. She had 
a modest personal pension fund of around £40,700 which shed built up over several 
years.
PFL hasnt done enough to demonstrate that the recommendations it made to Mrs J to 
establish a SIPP, with a DFM facility, investing in vehicles she had no experience of, in a 
company with little track record, which also required its ongoing advice service, was 
suitable.
The arrangements PFL put in place were over-engineered, complicated, untested, 
relatively expensive and it wasnt clear they were reasonably likely to be able to produce 
better returns than her personal pension.
Where does PFLs liability end and MCLs begin?
In responding to the Investigators view PFL said:
Mayfair Capital (MC) had a direct relationship with [Mrs J] and are responsible for 
all investment advice given to [Mrs J].2
CPF Claims brought to the FOS [Mrs Js] original complaint I was advised to invest in an 
unsuitable portfolio by the DFM Firm, Mayfair Capital Ltd, which consisted of unregulated, 
high risk investments. These investment assets are now valueless. The complaint relates 
to the investment and should therefore correctly be directed to MC under DISP 1.7.
You may seek to evoke causation in placing total responsibility with this Firm but the 
causation chain has clearly been broken by MC failing to perform as originally agreed by 
all parties.
Firstly, Id note that Mrs Js complaint was made in much broader terms than PFL 
implies. Nevertheless, Ive considered the point it makes carefully.
Where a firm concludes that it may be jointly liable along with another firm for the 
investors loss then generally the firm that gave the first advice should review the whole 
period (including the period after the other firm became involved) and then seek to obtain 
redress from the other entity, as appropriate. But where a firm believes the causal link 
between the advice it gave and any ongoing loss has been broken, then the first firm may 
need only consider the period up to the second advice.
Ive already highlighted some failings in the approach PFL took with Mrs J given her 
circumstances and objectives. These are around basic rationale, charging, risk appetite 
assessment and fund management arrangements and therefore the overall proposition 
to switch.Regarding the role of the DFM it recommended, PFL has provided more information to show 
it undertook due diligence on MCL. But given it was a new provider, without a track record, 
its not clear why it recommended such a firm to Mrs J who had no experience of DFMs. And 
it hasnt done enough to show why she even needed such an arrangement given the size of 
her personal pension pot.
PFL didnt obtain a current detailed breakdown of assets to understand how Mrs Js funds 
would be invested. I cant see it was aware of how its assessment of risk mapped to 
MCLs approach. More generally, its not clear how the seemingly separate information 
gathering, assessments and processes of PFL and MCL were reconciled and areas of 
difference and contradiction examined.
Mrs J had signed up to an ongoing service from PFL for which it charged her 1% of the 
value of her fund in advance. In return it said she would receive an offer of an annual 
review and a 6-month interim desk-top review. It said this would encompass an assessment 
of her circumstances; a review of her objectives; a review of investment performance and 
holdings; valuations and investment commentary; and reassessment of risk profile and 
asset allocation. I think this makes clear it needed to be across MCLs approach and 
performance.
Indeed, PFL has provided a copy of one review that it carried out for Mrs J from around 
June 2018. In the letter it sent her it confirmed that the purpose of the review was to ensure 
that its recommendations remained fit for purpose. It noted what MCL had said about her 
portfolio performance to date:
There are two of eight positions on [Mrs Js] portfolio that are proving troublesome. 
Fresnillo, the mining company, is offside by some 17%, which in the grand scheme of 
things is not so worrying, and we have seen it start recovering a little over the past few 
weeks. We are not overly concerned about this position, as it is a long term play, therefore 
the short- term fluctuations we tend not to pay a significant amount of attention to. The 
other position which doesnt look good on the account is Equatorial Mining & Exploration 
plc. This is one of our high risk equities, which in the past three weeks has suspended 
trading and has displayed a share price of close to zero, i.e. a 100% loss on that position. 
However, this is for a very simple reason and should not cause the client concern. A 
separate company, ARQ Minerals Limited, has come in and bought 500,000,000 shares in 
an initial investment, being made to coincide with the heads of terms which will develop into 
an investment agreement during the course of the next 30 days. Until the discussions have 
taken place, the suspension of trading will remain, and if all goes as well as we are 
anticipating, this position on [Mrs Js] account could prove to be a high performer
Aside from confirming Mrs Js risk appetite remained balanced, PFL concluded in 
the following terms:
Based on the above, we do not see the need to make any changes to your current set 
up with Mayfair at this stage and will of course keep the existing portfolio under review 
going forward.
PFL needed to understand how Mrs Js SIPP funds would be invested from the outset. It 
was supposed to be regularly reviewing the DFMs approach and performance. From the 
documents available its clear it endorsed the investment strategy again in July 2018. And 
the pattern of investments appears consistent over time, with the last information available 
to me showing a breakdown of assets in July 2021.
So, given PFLs initial and ongoing role which has seen Mrs J switch her personal pension 
into a SIPP with her funds being invested through a DFM in funds that were said to be a match for her risk appetite, its fair and reasonable for it to provide compensation for any 
losses arising in this case. 
Of course, it is a matter for PFL if it wishes to pursue MCL for any acts and omissions which 
it believes gave rise to any element of the redress costs it now faces. 
Putting things right
RPC says its unclear whether Mrs J is pursuing a complaint against MCL. I agree that she 
cant benefit from double recovery of losses and compensation in respect of substantively 
the same case. As such, if Mrs J accepts this decision, shell need to give an undertaking to 
assign any rights she has to take action against MCL and any redress from it over to PFL.
Im upholding Mrs Js case. So, she needs to be returned to the position she wouldve 
been in now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures 
which I hold Pi Financial Ltd responsible for.
If PFL had provided suitable advice, I dont think Mrs J wouldve switched her personal 
pensions into a SIPP, nor taken on a DFM facility which invested her funds according to the 
arrangement it had agreed. I think its most likely her OMW plan wouldve remained 
invested with the same asset mix.
So, Pi Financial Ltd needs to provide redress as follows.
1. Calculate a notional loss Mrs J has suffered as a result of making the switch of her 
personal pension
PFL should obtain the notional value of Mrs Js previous personal pension with OMW, as at 
the date of calculation. So, as if it hadnt been transferred to the Intelligent Money SIPP. It 
will need to obtain the value of the plan as previously invested.
PFL should then find the current (actual) value of her SIPP, including investments and 
any cash held. Concerning the valuation here  the approach to be taken is set out in 
step 2.
The information Ive seen from July 2021 shows the value of her pot as about £33,800, 
with around £26,500 of this held in cash.
Im not aware Mrs J has made further contributions to her SIPP. Nor whether shes taken 
any benefits from it. After confirming the detailed position, then the value PFL obtains or 
the calculations it makes should assume these adjustments would still have occurred and 
on the same dates.
The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mrs 
Js former personal pension and the current value of her SIPP will be her basic financial 
loss that PFL needs to redress.
2.Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed
To close Mrs Js SIPP and avoid ongoing fees, the investments need to be crystallised.
If, at the date of settlement, any residual investment is illiquid (meaning it cant be readily 
sold on the open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, 
the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. PFL should 
take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance 
paid as above.
If PFL is unable to purchase the residual investment the actual value should be assumed 
to be nil for the purpose of calculation. It may wish to require that Mrs J provides an 
undertaking to pay it any amount she may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. PFL will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Had PFL done what it ought to have done then there wouldnt have been a SIPP. So, it 
wouldnt be fair if Mrs J continued to have to pay SIPP fees because of illiquid holdings 
preventing it from being closed. Ideally, PFL would take over any illiquid holdings, thus 
allowing the SIPP to be closed. But third parties are involved, and I cant tell them what 
to do.
So, to give certainty to all parties, if there are illiquid holdings and PFL is unable to buy 
them from the SIPP, then its fair that it should pay Mrs J an upfront lump sum equivalent to 
five years of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This gives a reasonable 
period to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
3. Pay an amount into Mrs Js pension pot so the value is increased by the loss 
calculated (resulting from 1 and 2) or pay her an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted 
for tax.
If compensation is paid into Mrs Js SIPP, payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief, so that she is in the same position as if shed stayed in her original 
personal pension scheme.
If paying compensation into Mrs Js SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and PFL takes on her investments, then it should 
pay her compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to 
allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mrs J hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from her plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% wouldve been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this. If Mrs J is a higher rate taxpayer, the notional allowance would 
reduce the amount payable accordingly.
PFL must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which this Service informs it 
that Mrs J accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If PFL considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it should tell Mrs J how much has been 
taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Further information
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by typing compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our 
website: www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mrs Js complaint, and I require Pi 
Financial Ltd to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman