DRN-3830538
The complaint
Mr P is complaining that Zurich Insurance PLC has declined a claim he made on his 
contents insurance policy.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to all parties so I wont set them out in detail. But, 
in summary, Mr P says his possession were damaged in a fire, so he contacted Zurich to 
claim on his contents insurance policy. Mr P is unhappy with the way Zurich handled the 
claim for the following reasons:
Zurich delayed making an emergency payment of £1,000 it said it would make;
Hes unhappy with the length of time it took Zurich to review the claim;
Zurich declined his claim and accused him of fraud.
Zurich offered £75 in compensation for the delay in making the payment, but it said Mr P had 
significantly exaggerated his claim to obtain money it says he wasnt entitled to. And it said it 
was entitled to decline the claim in full in these circumstances.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as she thought it was fair for Zurich to say Mr P 
had exaggerated the claim.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Mr Ps complaint in a lot less detail 
than he has presented it. Ive not commented on each and every point hes raised but, 
instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points I need to think about. I dont 
mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service. I 
assure Mr P, however, that I have read and considered everything hes provided.
I should also set out that its not this services role to say whether a claim is fraudulent or not 
 only a court can decide that  but our role is to assess whether Zurich has acted fairly and 
reasonably. 
Zurich has declined Mr Ps claim in full because it believes he has significantly exaggerated 
his losses. I think its decision to decline the claim in full is fair for the following reasons:
Under the terms of the insurance policy and case law, Zurich can decline a claim in its 
entirety where it can show a policyholder has looked to commit fraud and had the 
potential to financially benefit from the fraud.
Mr P has claimed to have lost over £25,000 in personal possessions, but he hasnt 
provided anything to substantiate his losses. Mr P says he bought these goods within the 
nine months preceding the fire. Given the alleged amount he spent, Zurich was entitled 
to expect him to provide evidence of the losses, but he didnt do so.
Zurich has given Mr P a number of reasonable options to substantiate his losses, but 
Mr P didnt provide anything to show his claim was valid.
Zurich spoke to the retailers who Mr P says he bought the goods from and they all said 
he hadnt bought furniture or goods from them.
The video of the property for when Mr P virtually showed the claims inspector around 
the property showed little furniture or goods in the property. Im satisfied Zurichs 
analysis of the video is fair.
Mr P says his landlord put the goods in a skip. But Zurich says it spoke with the landlord 
who said he only threw away a small number of goods.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Zurich had fair concerns about the validity of Mr Ps claim. I think 
it fairly and reasonably asked Mr P to verify the losses he was claiming, but he hasnt done 
so. For the reasons Ive set out above, I think it was fair for Zurich to say Mr P has looked to 
claim for losses he hasnt incurred  i.e. hes exaggerated the claim. The terms of the policy 
entitle Zurich to decline the claim in full in these circumstances. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Zurich to rely on this term in this case.
I note Mr P is unhappy Zurich delayed making the emergency payment. But, given Zurich 
was entitled to decline the claim in full, it wasnt required to make this payment. So I think its 
offer of £75 in compensation is more than fair and I dont think it needs to offer anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think Zurich Insurance PLCs 
compensation offer of £75 is fair compensation. It should pay this to Mr P directly if it hasnt 
already done so. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman