DRN-3038486
The complaint
Mr P complained that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr P took out a single loan from Likely Loans in November 2019. He borrowed £1,000 and 
he agreed to pay the loan by making 48 monthly instalments of £29.54.
As far as I am aware, the loan isnt yet repaid in full.
Mr P brought his complaint to us when he wasnt able to resolve it with Likely Loans. 
In summary, Mr P didnt think that Likely Loans had lent to him responsibly, taking account of 
the extent of his existing debt and his spending at the time on gambling.
  
Our investigator thought that information Likely Loans gathered about Mr Ps financial 
situation was enough for it to make a fair lending decision and that the information it saw 
wasnt enough for him to be able to say Likely Loans made an unreasonable lending 
decision.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators view. He mainly said that the amount of debt he had 
at the time meant Likely Loans shouldnt have lent to him and hed had a gambling problem. 
Mr P asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information Likely 
Loans relied on when it decided to lend to Mr P. 
Likely Loans asked Mr P about his pay and his housing costs and carried out some 
background checks on his income and credit history. It also took into account statistical 
information about what someone in Mr Ps position typically spent each month on basic 
essentials. 
Likely Loans recorded Mr Ps net monthly income as £1,748.11 per month. When looking at 
what he could afford, Likely Loans included an amount of £797.90 for his mortgage payment 
and other main living costs and allowed for Mr P spending £545 on his other existing credit. 
Likely Loans also allowed a £50 buffer to cover any unplanned spending or financial 
emergency. 
On these figures, after paying his Likely Loans loan, this meant that Mr P should still have 
had around £325 left to spend and available to cover other unexpected costs arising. Likely 
Loans said that Mr P had no adverse data shown on his credit file which would prevent 
lending, he was maintaining his credit and his priority bills were up to date. So Likely Loans 
felt this loan was affordable for Mr P.
But I dont think that Likely Loans properly took into account the information it was able to 
see on the credit checks it carried out when thinking about whether Mr P would be able to 
repay this loan in a way that was sustainable. 
Likely Loans could see from the information it had gathered that Mr P was already 
spending around 31% of his net monthly income on servicing his existing debt. I think 
that this was such a significant proportion of Mr Ps take home pay it was a clear 
indication that Mr P was, in reality, already experiencing financial difficulty. I think 
Likely Loans ought reasonably to have been aware that taking further, costly lending 
was unlikely to help Mr P. And bearing in mind that the loan purpose was unclear 
I think Likely Loans should have realised it was likely to add to Mr Ps overall 
indebtedness  potentially over the longer term, given that it saw the extent of his 
existing credit was more than £17,000. Someone earning the amount Mr P did was 
likely to take many years to clear this amount of debt out of his salary alone. 
I think all this information painted a picture of someone struggling to manage money 
problems effectively and it included clear warning signs that Mr P might be experiencing 
financial difficulty. 
Even if Mr P had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think Likely Loans had 
sufficient reason to think this wouldve improved his overall position sufficiently to achieve a 
significant and sustainable improvement in his financial situation  given his outstanding 
indebtedness overall. 
And based on all the information Likely Loans had gathered, I dont think it was reasonably 
able to say that the loan was likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr P.Ive explained why I think Likely Loans shouldve realised that this loan wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable for Mr P and Ive concluded that, based on the information it could 
already see, Likely Loans shouldnt have lent to him. 
Although it doesnt make a difference to my conclusions, unlike our investigator I also think 
Likely Loans provided this loan to Mr P without finding out information it shouldve done to 
check that it had a proper understanding of Mr Ps financial situation  given the discrepancy 
between what Mr P had said (or omitted to say) to Likely Loans and his apparent reliance on 
credit.
Likely Loans could, of course, decide for itself how to undertake proportionate checking. But 
Mr P has provided his bank statements from around the time of this loan and, in the absence 
of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable guide to Mr Ps finances at the time. So 
Ive looked through these to see what Likely Loans was likely to have found out about his 
overall financial situation had it carried out more in-depth checks. 
And had Likely Loans looked in more depth at Mr Ps finances it would likely have seen that 
he was facing serious problems managing his money.
The concerns Ive mentioned about this loan not being sustainably affordable are borne out 
by other information I've seen on bank statements Mr P sent to us showing that he had 
taken out at least three other loans totalling £1,600 with other providers of high cost credit 
during the previous month and another £1,000 loan just 3 days prior to Likely Loans 
providing this loan. 
I think, had Likely Loans done a proportionate check before providing this loan, it wouldve 
likely found this out  and also learned that Mr P was spending significantly on gambling 
transactions at that time. 
So it wouldve realised that the loan wouldnt be sustainable for him and it shouldnt have 
been provided. 
For all these reasons, Im planning on upholding this complaint.  
I would just mention that Mr Ps bank statements also show that Likely Loans 
underestimated his net monthly income. In the 3 months prior to Mr P taking out this loan his 
monthly salary was around £1,823. But this makes no overall difference to my view. 
Even if Likely Loans had used the correct figure when it assessed affordability it still 
shouldve realised that Mr P would be paying almost a third of his take home pay just on 
servicing debt alone  and bearing in mind he was signing up to make the loan repayments 
for the next four years, it shouldve realised this loan was unlikely to be sustainably 
affordable over the loan term.    
Like our investigator, I dont think Likely Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other 
way. 
So I think the steps I've set out below fairly and reasonably provide redress for his complaint. 
It appears that Mr P hasnt objected to what our investigator said about this so I dont think 
I need to say more. What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Both Mr P and Likely Loans confirmed they agree with what I've said in my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Likely Loans for responding so promptly to my provisional decision. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr P to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. 
But he has paid interest and charges on lending that should not have been provided to him. 
In line with this Services approach, Mr P shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed. 
If Likely Loans has sold outstanding debt it should buy it back if its able to do so and then 
take the following steps.
Otherwise, Likely Loans should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below.
 Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr P made 
as payments towards the capital.
 If reworking Mr Ps loan account results in him having effectively made payments above 
the original capital borrowed, then Likely Loans should refund these overpayments with 8% 
simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
 If an outstanding balance remains, then Likely Loans should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr P - bearing in mind the need to treat him positively and 
sympathetically in those discussions.
 Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Likely Loans 
should give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans 
to take the steps set out above to put things right for Mr P. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman