DRN-3430208
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) and their agent 
mis-sold him a fixed sum loan agreement in 2020. He is also unhappy about two conditional 
sale agreements he entered into with Santander in 2021. 
What happened
In October 2020, Mr W, using a credit broker (who Ill call C1), entered into a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Santander to acquire a car first registered in September 2019. I will refer to 
this car as Car1. The cash price of Car1 was around £25,748. The total amount payable 
was approximately £31,033. Mr W made an advance payment of around £4,000. There were 
48 monthly payments of around £327, followed by one payment of around £11,323.  
Later, on 13 October 2021, Mr W used Car1 as a part-exchange to acquire another car at a 
different dealership. I will refer to the second car as Car2. Mr W acquired Car2 by entering 
into a conditional sales agreement using a credit broker (who Ill call C2). Car2 had a cash 
price of around £41,610. The total amount payable was approximately £44,711. Mr W made 
an advance payment of around £26,550  this included the value given for part-exchanging 
Car1 and a deposit of £1,000. There were 60 monthly payments each around £303. 
Mr W was unhappy with Car2 because it didnt have a 360 degree camera, so shortly after, 
on 5 November 2021, he went back to where he acquired Car2 and used Car2 as part-
exchange to acquire a third car; which I will refer to as Car3. Mr W acquired Car3 by 
entering into a conditional sales agreement, which was brokered by C2. Car3 had a cash 
price of around £42,000. The total amount payable was approximately £45,358. Mr W made 
an advance payment of around £25,690. There were 60 monthly payments each around 
£328.   
Mr W is unhappy as he thinks that when he acquired Car1 he was entering into a conditional 
sales agreement and not a fixed sum loan agreement. So, he complained to Santander that 
the fixed sum loan agreement was mis-sold to him. He is also unhappy because when he 
was in the process of acquiring Car2, he said that the dealership told him that they would 
settle the outstanding amount of money owing on Car1. In addition, Mr W is unhappy that 
there is a £1,450 discrepancy between the part-exchange of Car2 against Car3. 
In December 2021, Santander wrote to Mr W and didnt think that the fixed sum loan 
agreement on Car1 had been mis-sold to him. In this correspondence, in summary, they said 
that at the time of signature the pages setting out the terms relating to the agreement were 
attached. Mr W by signing the agreement was entering into a legally binding contract, so it 
was important that he understood the agreement he was entering into and its terms and 
conditions before signing. In this correspondence they also said that Mr W had been given a 
Pre-contract Credit Information document, and had received a verbal explanation relating to 
certain aspects of the agreement, including the features that may have an adverse effect on 
him. They said that a copy of the explanation document was also given to him at the time, 
and he signed a Finance Suitability Questionnaire (FSQ) which said (in red) that the 
agreement had been switched to a personal loan. They said that within the FSQ there is a 
section called Personal Loan Agreement (Fixed Sum Loan); which provides a full 
explanation of this term. 
Regarding the money discrepancy between the part exchange of Car2 against Car3, 
Santander have said that they are unable to uphold his complaint because the discrepancy 
was due to Car2 having an additional keeper  Mr W. Hence it has been devalued.  
Mr W was unhappy with Santanders response, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think that the fixed sum loan agreement was mis-sold to Mr W. And 
she said that the £1,450 discrepancy between the part exchange of Car2 against Car3 was 
for depreciation of Car2. 
Mr W disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Where evidence is unclear or in 
dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  which is to say, what I consider 
most likely to have happened based on the evidence available and the surrounding 
circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mr W acquired Car1 under a fixed sum loan agreement, and Car2 and Car3 were acquired 
under conditional sale agreements. These are all regulated consumer credit agreements. 
Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of holding Santander responsible 
for any antecedent negotiations between Mr W and C1, who acted as Santanders agent 
when brokering the fixed sum loan agreement. And similarly, Santander are responsible for 
any antecedent negotiations between Mr W and C2. What this means is that anything C1 
and/or C2 said or did when arranging the finance agreements, I can consider against 
Santander.
One of Mr Ws complaint point is that when he was in the process of acquiring Car2, he said 
that the dealership told him that the outstanding amount of money owing on Car1s finance 
agreement would be settled. So, he doesnt think he should be responsible for paying the 
reminder, or a part of the remainder, of that fixed sum loan. But in this decision, Im not going 
to address this issue as it is dealt with separately under a different complaint.
Fixed sum loan agreement on Car1
When Mr W acquired Car1, in summary, he said he was mis-sold the fixed sum loan 
agreement as he thought that he was entering into a conditional sales agreement. To decide whether Mr W was mis-sold the fixed sum loan agreement in October 2020, Ive 
considered what he told our service, as well as the paperwork that is available from that 
time. I can see that the FSQ was completed and the recommendation was for Mr W to 
acquire Car1 using a 48-month personal contract plan. The FSQ says that this agreement 
was recommended, as it matched his planned change cycle and/or desired monthly budget. 
But then it goes on to say that Mr W declined the recommendation and had chosen a 
personal loan. The document further explains that a personal loan agreement (fixed sum 
loan) is secured against you, the consumer rather than the vehicle. You can settle the 
agreement early by repaying the required amount back to the finance company. As a 'Fixed 
Sum Loan' you do not have any rights to terminate the agreement early by handing the 
vehicle back to the Finance Company (under a Voluntary Termination through the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974). So, I think from this document most likely Mr W wouldve been aware that 
he was entering into a fixed sum loan; one that is secured against him and not the car. 
I know that Mr W questioned whether it was his signature on this document. It looks most 
likely that the signature was done electronically, so the signatures form maybe not be as 
exact as Mr Ws actual signature. But that is not for me to decide, because only a court can 
decide whether Santander can enforce the fixed sum loan agreement against Mr W. My role 
is to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances before me. So, Ive though 
carefully about all the wider circumstances. Mr W does appear to have thought he had 
entered into a finance agreement of some sort. So, whether he actually signed this 
document or not, he was expecting to be bound to an agreement where he would have to 
make payments for Car1. He also received the car and was making the monthly payments 
for it, so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to say he shouldnt be responsible for 
the amount owed to Santander under the agreement, including the remainder of the 
settlement. 
In addition, Ive also considered that at the top of the actual finance agreement, which Mr W 
entered into, it says in bold capital letters FIXED SUM LOAN AGREEMENT. So, I think 
most likely Mr W wouldve known that he was entering into a fixed sum loan and not a 
conditional sales agreement. Also, Santander have said that they contacted C, who said that 
they have a robust sales process in place, whereby they inform their customers of the 
finance acceptance and on what basis it was arranged. And when Mr W signed the fixed 
sum loan agreement, I can see that he confirmed that he had received a verbal explanation 
of features of the agreement that may make the credit unsuitable for particular types of use, 
the payment details, including a reminder to consider the affordability of the payments, the 
total amount payable, the features that may have an adverse effect on him, the default 
consequences, and right of withdrawal information. By signing the fixed sum loan 
agreement, Mr W has also confirmed that he received a written copy of the explanation 
document. So overall, I think most likely any of the above mentioned points wouldve raised 
flags for Mr W, if he did actually think at the time that he was entering into a different 
agreement instead of entering into a fixed sum loan. And I think, most likely, had this been 
the case, he wouldve questioned it at the time. 
Overall, taking all the circumstances of the complaint into account, Ive not seen enough 
evidence to be able to say that most likely the fixed sum loan agreement was mis-sold to 
him.
Money discrepancy between the part exchange of Car2 against Car3
Mr W questioned why there is an approximate £1,450 discrepancy between the part 
exchange of Car2 against Car3. Santander said that the discrepancy/loss between the part-
exchange of Car2 against Car3 is due to its depreciation, as the car has been devalued due 
to Car2 having an additional keeper. But Mr W is unhappy with this as he said that he notified the dealership within 14 days that he needed a car with a 360 degree camera. So, 
he believes that a full price shouldve been refunded for Car2 when he acquired Car3.
I think Mr W is trying to say that The Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and
Additional Charges) Regulations 2013 (CCR) entitled him to be allowed to returnCar2 as
it was a distance sale. From the information that has been submitted to our service I cant 
say that most likely this was a distance sale, among other things because Mr W visited the 
dealership when acquiring Car2. But either way, Car2 was acquired on credit, so the CCR 
would not apply in this case. CCR says that it doesnt apply to a contract, to the extent that it 
is for services of a banking, credit, insurance, personal pension, investment or payment 
nature. Mr W acquired the Car2 through a conditional sale agreement, so the contract he 
wouldve been looking to end was a regulated credit agreement. And the CCR specifically 
sets out that the regulations dont apply to credit agreements. The Consumer Credit Act 
1974 and the conditional sales agreement, gave Mr W the right to withdraw from the finance 
agreement within the first 14 days. But that doesnt mean he was able to withdraw from the 
car purchase itself. So, he didnt have an automatic right to hand Car2 back. 
Ive also considered if Mr W wouldve been allowed to reject the car because it didnt have 
the 360 degree camera. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 implies a term into the agreement 
that, among other things, the car must be as described and be of satisfactory quality. As the 
supplier and finance provider, Santander is responsible for the quality of the car they 
provided under the conditional sales agreement. But the model of the car (Car2) that Mr W 
acquired didnt come with the 360 degree camera installed, and ultimately, I havent seen 
anything to show that Mr W was told that Car2 came with the 360 degree camera. So, I cant 
say Car2 wasnt as described.
Ive also considered that Car2 wouldve most likely suffered some depreciation as the car 
had been devalued due to it having an additional keeper on its record. So, I cant say that it 
is unreasonable that it wouldve suffered some monetary depreciation. Also, Ive taken into 
consideration that the dealership did give Mr W a significant discount of £7,000 on Car3 and 
Mr W did acquire Car3 with much higher specifications; all of which he signed for and agreed 
to at the time. So overall, I cant say he was treated unfairly, and I think the dealership was 
reasonable in trying to accommodate his circumstances. 
Overall, I sympathise with Mr W but taking all the circumstances of the complaint into 
account, I dont think he has been treated unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman