DRN-3164484
The complaint
Mr L has complained that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd (CTI) unfairly declined part 
of his claim under a commercial property insurance policy.
Im aware that Mr L has representatives who have provided some comments on his behalf 
but, for ease, I will only refer to Mr L.
What happened
Mr L contacted CTI to report he had been burgled. CTI paid the part of the claim related to 
some money that was stolen, but declined the rest of the claim as it said there was no 
evidence of forcible and violent entry.
When Mr L complained, CTI maintained its decision to decline the majority of the claim. It 
said it had made the decision in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
So, Mr L complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
there was no evidence violence was used to gain entry, so he thought it was reasonable for 
CTI to decline part of the claim.
As Mr L didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that there was a burglary and Im aware that CTI paid part of 
the claim because the stolen money was covered under a different part of the policy. 
However, CTI declined part of the claim because it said there wasnt evidence of entry using 
force and violence. So, Ive considered whether that was reasonable.
The part of the claim that was declined was considered under the Contents part of the policy. 
This had an exclusion that said:
Theft Fraud or dishonesty
damage caused by theft or attempt thereat
(a) unless involving entry to or exit from the building at the premises by forcible and violent 
means or by violence or threat of violence to you or any of your employee
I dont think this is an unusual term and is common in policies. The policy doesnt define the 
words force and violence. This service would normally take forcible to mean the application 
of energy to an obstacle with a view to its removal, such as turning a door handle. Violence 
could be something like breaking down a door, but would generally be interpreted as a level 
of force over and above what would usually be necessary, even if no physical damage was 
caused. This could include using some kind of instrument to gain entry.
When Mr L first made the claim, he described what happened and said:
The window the burglars broke into was a bedroom window. The window was shut but not 
locked.
 
The window cannot be accessed from outside (even if open) unless you climbed on to the 
roof and dangled down from the window (video to be provided separately). 
 
To access the same window from the ground floor, you would need a long ladder. Though 
this poses a big risk to be spotted as we were working downstairs and we regularly go 
outside for fresh air.
Im aware that Mr L later explained that the window was left in a slightly open position but 
with the lock set.
CTI sent a loss adjuster to assess the claim. The loss adjuster found some marking to the 
window frame, but couldnt see how this caused the window to be forced open. The loss 
adjuster was of the view that if the property had been entered through the window there was 
no evidence that violence had been used to gain entry, as there would have been more 
damage. 
From what Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for CTI to question whether the window frame 
marks were evidence that violence was used to gain entry and to decide that it wasnt. Mr L 
has said the window was locked and that the indentation marks could only have been the 
result of some type of sharp tool or implement used by the burglars to apply pressure or 
leverage to open the window. The marks are near the window lock but I cant see how these 
helped to show this was how the window was opened, regardless of whether the window 
was locked or unlocked. No marks or damage were found on the lock or the window 
casement, which is what the loss adjuster would have expected to see. I cant see how the 
marks to the window frame were evidence that violence was used to enter the property. So, I 
think it was reasonable for CTI to conclude that violence hadnt been used and to decline 
part of the claim on that basis. As a result, I dont require CTI to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman