DRN-3491412
The complaint
Mr Js complaint concerns CMC Spreadbet Plcs trading applications. He believes theyre 
unfit for purpose and expose users to third party interference. 
What happened
Mr J has wide-ranging concerns about the way in which CMCs systems work and how this 
may have impacted his spread betting accounts. He feels that its prices have been 
deliberately delayed, and its applications and servers are open to external computers 
connecting to them. Further, hes also questioned whether spread betting should actually be 
considered gambling and regulated differently. In his complaint to CMC about these issues 
he requested a refund of all the deposits hed made to two accounts hed held with it, 
opened in 2008 and 2019. 
CMC strongly refuted all Mr Js claims, so he referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator reviewed the evidence but was unable to conclude that the complaint should be 
upheld. She said, in brief: 
She wasnt persuaded the evidence Mr J had provided showed his accounts had 
been hacked. She said that even if it could be demonstrated that thered been some 
sort of interference between Mr Js device and CMCs servers it was unlikely it could 
be shown that this was a result of an error or failure by CMC. 
Mr J had not provided specific example of irregularities  losses or withdrawals  that 
might indicate unauthorised access to his accounts. 
In the absence of such examples, an examination of Mr Js account activity showed, 
in addition to trading losses, only withdrawals by Mr J made in line with CMCs terms 
to a registered account, and the application of holding fees.
Although Mr J had concerns about how the alleged hacking might have affected 
other customers of CMC, she was unable to obtain general  potential commercially 
sensitive  information about other customers in respect of a complaint about the 
service provided specifically to Mr J.
It appeared that Mr Js concerns about potential hacking followed changes made by 
CMC to WTI oil contracts in April 2020 in response to the extreme volatility in oil price 
at that time. These changes reduced the price movement, which the investigator 
acknowledged couldve given the impression that the price was being delayed. But 
she was satisfied that wasnt the case and she was further satisfied that holding fees 
applied to Mr Js account in respect of the new product were correct.   
In general, she didnt consider CMC had acted incorrectly in relation to its regulatory 
responsibilities and that its terms explained it acted as a counterparty, setting its own 
prices while reflecting the underlying markets.  
Mr J didnt accept the investigators view. He reiterated his complaint and highlighted that his 
concerns had been raised with other agencies. He provided significant further evidence in 
the form of emails between him and CMC, and copies of several media articles on the 
subject of hacking. He said he felt expert external opinion would be required to properly 
examine the evidence.  
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so that matters been referred to 
me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I recognise Mr J will be very disappointed, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I should say first that I hope Mr J wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his 
complaint in the way I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, including the 
recent additional submissions, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it, but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it to reach the right outcome.
I appreciate Mr J feels that the nature of his complaint  dealing with very technical aspects 
of the functionality of CMCs systems  requires referral to external expert opinion. Ive 
considered this carefully, but in the context of my consideration of his complaint Ive 
concluded that it isnt necessary. I say this because the purpose of our service to is to 
resolve disputes between individual customers and businesses. To make a finding in Mr Js 
favour I would need to be persuaded that acts or omission on the part of CMC had caused 
him financial loss and/or pain, distress, or reputational damage. And Ive not seen thats the 
case. 
Ive noted the evidence Mr J has provided in the form of screen prints and seen, for 
example, where hes pointed to source code showing in the sign-in field of CMCs 
application. While this may be unusual, Ive not seen conclusively that its indicative of an 
error or failing on CMCs part. And, importantly, Ive also not seen that it has caused Mr J 
any loss. If there was a clear link between what Mr J has shown and a failed trade or an 
unauthorised withdrawal I might think differently. But in the absence of that sort of evidential 
trail, Im unable to conclude that CMC has acted incorrectly.   
Mr J has also raised concerns that the issues he feels are present within CMCs systems 
have a far-reaching impact on other customers. But as the investigator noted, Im looking 
only at what, if anything, CMC has done (or not done) that affects Mr J individually. He can 
raise his more general concerns with other parties that may be better placed to investigate 
them, and from what Ive seen, it appears this is something hes already started to do.
Overall, Ive not seen that CMC has deviated from its terms or acted outside its regulatory 
requirements. I note what Mr J has said about the nature of spread betting and I can 
understand his concerns. But its nevertheless the case that CMC is authorised and 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and it is those rules that its required to follow. 
In conclusion, Ive not found that CMC has acted incorrectly or unreasonably, so there are 
no grounds on which I can direct it to make a refund of Mr Js deposits or otherwise 
compensate him.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman