DRN-3891915
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled her claim under her contents 
insurance following damage to her diamond ring.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision, referencing the evidence where I 
think it will help to explain.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Mrs N will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint.
Theres no dispute that the diamond set into Mrs Ns gold ring suffered impact damage. AXA 
accepted her claim under the contents section of her policy, which specified the ring 
alongside one other item in an overall insured sum of £12,000.
AXAs final offer to settle Mrs Ns claim was to:
replace the diamond with one of at least the same size and quality;
set it into the ring;
return the damaged diamond to Mrs N with the repaired ring due to the sentimental 
value;
provide a professional valuation for insurance purposes, and
pay £150 compensation for the avoidable delays and lack of contact directly with Mrs 
Ns husband, Mr N.
As Mrs N was unhappy with the overall settlement offer, AXA also offered a cash settlement.
Looking at what Mrs N said, its clear that shes happy with the first three parts of AXAs 
offer. However, she wants AXA to pay for an independent valuation of the repaired ring 
using a jeweller of her choice. And she doesnt think £150 is enough given the distress, 
inconvenience and embarrassment she suffered at being unable to wear her ring during 
extended holidays, celebrations and family events. Also, Mrs N said the cash settlement 
offer wasnt a reasonable solution to her claim.
Independent valuation
The overriding issue here seems to be that Mrs N doesnt want a valuation completed by 
anyone who may have connections with AXAs preferred valuers. The company handling her 
claim on behalf of AXA arranges the valuations through what it describes as its sister 
company. 
Ive looked at the network of valuers available to AXA through this route, and I note that it is 
a professional jewellery valuation organisation. The jewellers work for various retailers but 
are members of this organisation. Ive also looked at the organisation of which Mrs Ns 
preferred valuer is a member, and it appears to operate in the same way.
What this tells me is that while AXA may have indirect connections with the organisation, the 
valuation would be completed by someone acting in their professional capacity as a member 
of the jewellery valuation organisation.
With all that said, even if the jeweller wasn't independent, Im satisfied that AXA made a fair 
offer to value the ring on repair. Thats because the policy only provides for the repair, and 
AXA has no obligation to provide a valuation. Providing AXA is replacing the diamond with 
one of at least the same size and quality as the original diamond, it has done what is 
required of it under the policy terms and conditions.
Value
Ive noted Mrs Ns concerns about the actual value of the ring after repair. She wants 
reassurance that the value will be equivalent to that of the ring before the damage, taking 
into consideration the changing nature of gold and diamond prices.
I understand the diamond is of sentimental value and I dont think Mrs N is expecting AXA to 
address that unquantifiable value. Im pleased to note that AXA has offered to return the 
damaged diamond to Mrs N after repairing her ring - it isnt required to do that under the 
policy.
But in terms of the market value, I fail to see how AXA can do anything other than replace 
the diamond on at least a like-for-like basis. If it replaces the damaged stone with one of 
equal size and quality, the value would likely be the same as the original undamaged stone.
If AXA completes the repair as offered, Mrs N will be in the same position as she was before 
her ring was damaged and the value will be subject to the same fluctuations as it was 
before. This is exactly what the policy provides for.
Therefore, I dont think AXA did anything wrong in respect of Mrs Ns complaint about the 
ring value. 
Cash settlement 
Because AXA offered to repair Mrs Ns ring, any cash offer it makes will reflect the discount 
it has with its network of jewellers/repairers. The policy makes that clear:
Contents 
Most insurance companies can get discounts on replacing items. This helps to control 
claim costs and therefore premiums charged. 
It is at our option that we will:
pay the cost of repair;
replace the item as new; or 
pay the cost of replacing the item as new. 
Where we can offer to repair or replace through our approved suppliers, but we 
agree to make a cash payment, the payment will not exceed the amount we would 
have paid the approved supplier.Therefore, I dont find it unreasonable that AXA offered Mrs N a cash settlement as an 
alternative to the repair. I can understand why she doesnt think its a viable option, but it is, 
nevertheless, in line with the terms of her policy. Im satisfied that AXAs offer was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Compensation
AXA paid Mrs N £150 compensation by way of apology for the avoidable delays and its 
failure to respond directly to her husband, Mr N. She thinks AXA should pay considerably 
more in recognition of the embarrassment, distress and inconvenience caused by her 
inability to wear the ring on a day-to-day basis, or for special occasions, extended holidays, 
and family events.
Ive looked at the timeline of events and I agree that the ring shouldve been repaired by 
now. However, I cant fairly say that AXA caused all the avoidable delays. Mrs N described 
32 weeks of delays, which includes time taken to receive the packing to submit the ring, and 
the time for AXA to issue a final response to Mr Ns proposed solution to the settlement.
The email evidence shows that Mrs N chased up replies from AXA, so I agree that she 
experienced unnecessary delays. But I also note in the account records that AXA tried to 
contact her on a number of occasions, without success. Further, on occasions, Mrs N said 
she couldnt respond until a month or so later because she was travelling. So, while the 
overall delay seems to be quite long, I find that both parties contributed to it. In recognition of 
its contribution to the delays, AXA paid £150 compensation to Mrs N. I understand shed 
have been disappointed at being unable to wear the ring which held such sentimental value, 
but I find its offer fair in the circumstances. The evidence doesnt persuade me that AXA 
should pay any more.
Overall, the evidence shows that AXA made a fair offer to repair Mrs Ns ring, and 
subsequent delays have come about because of her request for a valuation after the repair. 
But until AXA has completed the repair, there is little it can do anyway to address that 
request. I see no reason for AXA to guarantee a value providing it replaces the diamond on, 
at least, a like-for-like basis, putting Mrs N back in the position she was in before her ring 
was damaged.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman