DRN-2947715
The complaint
Mr H complains that QIC Europe Ltd undervalued his car when he claimed on his car 
insurance policy. Hes also complained about how his claim has been handled.  
What happened
The named driver on Mr Hs policy was involved in an accident, so Mr H claimed on his 
policy. QIC accepted the claim and said due to the damage caused his car would be 
deemed a total loss. Because of this QIC offered Mr H £6,900 as the market value of his car. 
Mr H didnt agree and complained, he said his car was worth closer to £15,000 as it was 
rare, he also provided adverts of similar cars for sale to support this. 
QIC reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it had used two trade guides to value 
his car and taken the higher of the two guides. QIC also said, as Mr Hs car had been a 
previous total loss it deducted 20% from this and came to the figure of £6,900. Mr H didnt 
agree with QIC and referred his complaint here, he also said QIC hadnt handled his claim 
properly as hed been pursued directly by the third party for the damage caused in the 
accident.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint and recommended it was upheld. She found 
that QIC hadnt considered the evidence Mr H had provided to show his car was rare and 
worth more. When she considered this, she thought a fairer way to value Mr Hs car was to 
take an average of the adverts and came to a figure of £12,147. She also found that when 
Mr H purchased the car in 2016, he wasnt aware of the previous total loss in 2004 and had 
paid the market rate for his car. Because of this our investigator didnt think it was fair to 
make a deduction for it being a previous total loss. She thought QICs payment of £150 
compensation to Mr H for its error, which meant hed been chased by the third parties 
solicitors, was fair. But she thought QIC should pay Mr H an additional £500 compensation 
for the remaining poor claim handling. 
Mr H accepted our investigators findings but QIC didnt. It said if Mr Hs car was worth more 
it wouldnt now been deemed a total loss and offered him £3,534.21 for cash in lieu of 
repairs. Mr H rejected this offer. Our investigator said QIC hadnt explained how it had come 
to this amount and, considering Mr H had paid more than that to only partly repair his car, 
she wasnt persuaded it was a fair amount. She maintained the fairest way to resolve the 
complaint was to increase the market value as explained in her initial assessment. 
QIC didnt agree and said the adverts were for saloon cars and Mr Hs was an estate so 
didnt think it was fair to base the valuation on them. Our investigator reviewed this and 
based her assessment on estate models instead and sent adverts for estate cars to QIC. 
She said upon doing this the fairest way to value Mr Hs car was to take the three which 
were closest in age and mileage and took the average of them. Our investigator explained 
this increased the value to £12,415. 
QIC didnt respond and as it hasnt accepted our investigators outcome the complaint has 
come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy say that if QIC deem his car a total loss, it will pay 
him the market value. It defines market value as The cost of replacing your car with one of 
the same make, model, specification and condition.
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to 
use the relevant trade guides. I normally find these persuasive as theyre based on 
nationwide research of sales prices. However, Im not satisfied that in this case the trade 
guides are the fairest way to value Mr Hs car. 
I say this because Mr Hs car is a 2003 model with a particular specification which Mr H has 
said limited numbers were sold in the UK. Hes also provided several adverts for similar cars 
to his which range from £9,000 to almost £18,000. These cars also have varying mileage 
from around 47,000 miles to almost 150,000 miles. At the time of the accident Mr Hs car 
had covered just over 110,000 miles, Ive looked at the three adverts with the closet mileage 
to Mr Hs car and they range from around £10,000 to £15,000. 
When Ive compared this to the three trade guides we use, the highest value they give is 
£9,733. On this guide I can also see the data points it uses to produce the value and its only 
based on two, one which is for a car with 75,000 miles and advertised for £15,495 and the 
other is for a car with 196,000 miles and advertised for £6,989. As there are very limited data 
points for Mr Hs car and they vary in mileage and price quite dramatically, Im more 
persuaded to rely on the adverts hes provided. 
As Ive said above, looking at the adverts Mr H has provided there are three which are for 
cars with similar mileage, age and specification as his. As these range from £9,995 to 
£15,000 a fair and reasonable value would be within these two figures. Our investigator 
recommended the average of £12,415, and for the reasons Ive given Im more persuaded 
that is a fair market value for his car. 
QIC has said the adverts Mr H has provided are for saloon cars and not estate cars like his, 
however Mr H has also provided adverts for estate cars and these are the ones Ive looked 
at. So, Im satisfied theyre adverts for cars similar to Mr Hs. 
QIC also said that if Mr Hs car was valued around this amount then it wouldnt be deemed a 
total loss and offered him £3,534.21 cash in lieu of repairs. It hasnt explained how it came to 
this amount and considering its lower than its previous offer, of £6,900 minus the salvage of 
£2,070, Im not persuaded its fair and reasonable to lower it. In addition, Mr H said hes 
spent over £5,000 repairing his car and its not fully repaired. There is also a repair estimate 
from QIC, which is done using an industry recognised system of calculating repair costs, 
which valued the repairs at over £15,000. 
Im therefore not satisfied the cash in lieu offer is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this. 
And considering the matter has been going on for over 18 months, the fair and reasonable 
outcome is to deem Mr Hs car a total loss and pay him the market value of £12,415. As Mr 
H has kept the car QIC are able to reduce this by the salvage amount of £2,070. QIC should 
also add 8% simple interest per year to the amount it pays Mr H to compensate him for not 
having the money. It should calculate this from the date of claim until the date it makes 
payment. I understand QIC also initially deducted 20% as Mr Hs car had been a previous total loss. 
This happened before Mr H bought his car and hes said he wasnt aware and paid market 
value as he had been lucky enough to find this car for sale. While its difficult to say what 
happened back in 2006, Im persuaded by Mr Hs comments and as he didnt buy the car at 
a reduced rate or was aware it had been a previous total loss, Im not persuaded its fair and 
reasonable to deduct 20% from his settlement. 
Mr H has had to spend a lot of time trying to explain to QIC about his car and QIC didnt 
consider the evidence he provided. Because of this hes had to partially repair a car which 
he cherished and has had the unnecessary distress and inconvenience of pursuing this for 
the best part of two years. To compensate Mr H for this unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience QIC should pay him an additional £500 compensation. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint. QIC Europe Ltd needs to pay Mr H 
£12,415 for the market value of his car, minus the salvage amount of £2,070 and any 
applicable excesses. QIC Europe Ltd needs to add 8% simple interest to what it pays, 
calculated from the date of claim until the date it pays. QIC Europe Ltd should also pay Mr H 
an additional £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman