DRN-1909334
The complaint
Ms B and Mr H are unhappy with the way ZAD Bulstrad Vienna Insurance Group handled a 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy and the settlement of that claim.
 
What happened
Ms B and Mr H are represented but Ill refer to all submissions as being made by them 
directly.
Ms B and Mr H took out a travel insurance policy in March 2019 to insure a trip booked for 
that month. During the sales process they declared that Ms B had two medical conditions. 
Unfortunately, Ms B became unwell during the holiday and was admitted to hospital. Ms B 
and Mr H are unhappy with the length of time it took for ZAD to cover the claim, and said the 
hospital wouldnt discharge her until cover was sorted out. They are also unhappy that ZAD 
have only agreed to pay a proportion of the claim, rather than the full bill. 
In their final response letter ZAD explained that Ms B hadnt declared two additional medical 
conditions and, had she done so, the cost of the policy would have been higher. So they 
agreed to pay a proportion of the claim which means Ms B and Mr H will need to pay the 
outstanding balance. Ms B and Mr H dont think this is fair because they say the two 
conditions which werent declared were unremarkable. They made a complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought that ZAD had acted in line with the relevant legislation when settling the claim on a 
proportionate basis as all the medical conditions should have been declared. So, she didnt 
think ZAD needed to do anything to put things right. 
Ms B and Mr H asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They want ZAD to pay all of 
the claim and said that ZAD hadnt progressed the claim as quickly as they should. They 
also said ZAD hadnt paid hospital benefit which they were entitled to under the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The non-disclosure of medical conditions
ZAD says Ms B and Mr H incorrectly answered medical questions which they were asked
when they bought their policy. This means the law set out in the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) is relevant and I think its fair and
reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of Ms B and Mr Hs claim.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act.
A qualifying misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to
misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that
of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered when deciding whether a
consumer has taken reasonable care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the
insurer were. 
Ms B and Mr H were asked several questions when taking out their policy in March 2019. 
These included the following;
Have you or anyone in your party been prescribed medication, received treatment or 
had a consultation with a doctor or hospital specialist for any medical condition within 
the past two years? 
Im satisfied a clear question was asked. 
ZAD says, in response to these questions, Ms B and Mr H should have told them about a 
benign breast lump and gallstones, in addition to the two medical conditions she did declare. 
In deciding whether I think Ms B and Mr H took reasonable care in answering these 
questions, Ive reviewed Ms Bs medical records and Ive also considered what she has told 
us about her medical history. I think Ms B and Mr H should have told ZAD about the benign 
breast lump and the gallstones in response to the questions they were asked. Ms B had a 
diagnosis of gallstones in July 2017 and a benign breast lump was investigated in December 
2017 (which was within the two years before they took out the policy). 
I appreciate that Ms H and Mr B thought the conditions unremarkable, but they were relevant 
to the questions the insurer was asking. Insurers price their policies on the basis of the level 
of risk medical conditions present  so not declaring this information impacted on that risk 
and on the price of the policy. Having taken all of the above into account, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for ZAD to conclude Ms B should have disclosed information about the 
gallstones and benign breast lump when answering the question Ive set out above. 
Therefore, I think Ms B and Mr H did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA  in 
relation to the gallstones and the benign breast lump.
As Ms B and Mr H made a qualifying misrepresentation, ZAD is entitled to apply the relevant
remedy available to it under CIDRA. This says that, in cases of careless misrepresentation, if 
the insurer would still have entered into the contract but would have charged a higher 
premium, then the insurer is entitled to reduce proportionately the amount to be paid on the 
claim.
Ms B and Mr H paid £47.70 for their insurance policy. ZAD has now provided evidence to 
show the premium it would have charged is £69.43. This means Ms B and Mr H have paid 
68.7% of the premium they should have so, in line with the remedy set out under CIDRA, 
ZAD should pay 68.7% of their claim.Claims handling
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that ZAD has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Mr H and Ms B say Ms B was effectively held hostage by the hospital and that ZAD didnt 
move things forward as quickly as they should have. 
Having reviewed the contact notes I think the claim was progressed at a reasonable pace 
and I dont think that ZADs actions were responsible for a delay in discharging Ms B. ZAD is 
entitled to validate the claim and they asked for information from Ms Bs GP to make sure 
that shed accurately declared her medical history. In order to do this they needed a consent 
form, which was sent to Ms B on 19 March 2019. It wasnt sent back until 21 March and I 
can see that ZAD reminded Mr H and Ms B about the consent form during calls and emails 
during this time. So I dont think ZAD delayed in getting information from the GP. 
I can also see that ZAD offered the option for Ms B and Mr H to pay and claim to ensure 
that Ms B could be discharged. And they spoke with the hospital to try and help Mr H and 
Ms B with the hospital billing issue. Once the consent form was received ZAD were proactive 
about getting information from the GP, which was received on 22 March. This was promptly 
reviewed and was referred to the underwriter due to the misrepresentation in relation to the 
medical conditions. 
I think the decision about proportionate cover was made within a reasonable timescale. ZAD 
spoke with Ms B and also double checked with the GP about the medical conditions before 
offering a proportionate settlement. I note that Ms B was discharged on the 21 March and 
had completed her hospital treatment. So I dont think this impacted on her ability to access 
treatment or medical attention as she was stable and recovering by this point in time. 
Ms B and Mr H also say that they havent been paid hospital benefit which is payable for 
each complete 24 hours a policyholder is in hospital. Ms B was in hospital for approximately 
three days. However, ZAD says Ms B and Mr H didnt claim for this and they are now out of 
time to do so. Ms B and Mr H, in response to this information, said that the insurer should 
have pointed out what they could claim for. ZAD has provided a copy of the letter sent with 
the blank claim form. I note that this form includes a section of questions about claiming for 
hospital benefit. So I think Ms B and Mr H had the opportunity to claim for this if they wanted 
to.   
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman