DRN-3673640
The complaint
Mr N complains on behalf of Mrs Y that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) 
unfairly withdrew her credit facilities, following a Covid payment holiday.
What happened
Mr N says his wife had been a long-standing customer of Shop Direct but in March 2020 
they both lost their jobs as a result of the Covid pandemic. Mr N says in June 2020 Shop 
Direct agreed a payment holiday for initially three months and then further extended this for 
a further three months. Mr N says he contacted Shop Direct in early January 2021 and after 
having the account reassessed it confirmed the account could continue to operate as before, 
with the existing facilities in place. 
Mr N says after a failed attempt to make a transaction on the account in February 2021, he 
contacted Shop Direct who informed him the account had been reassessed and the facility 
to trade had been removed. Mr N says he couldnt understand why this was the case given 
the account had been assessed in the previous month, and a large payment had recently 
paid into the account. 
Mr N says he believed the Covid payment holiday was to help customers and Shop Direct 
havent here. Mr N says he wants Shop direct to pay his wife compensation for the trouble 
and upset this has caused.  
Shop Direct says as the account was reassessed in February 2021 and it decided to 
withdraw the credit facility and did so as a responsible lender. Shop Direct accept it didnt 
provide good service when failing to remove the block on Mrs Ys account in January 2021 
and paid £25 by way of apology. 
Mrs Y wasnt happy with Shop Directs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt Shop Direct were entitled to review the credit facilities of its customers and 
its not for this service to tell it otherwise. The investigator accepted Shop Direct hadnt 
provided the service he would have expected but felt the compensation offered was fair. 
Mrs Y didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision.
I can see it would be upsetting for Mrs Y to learn her credit facilities had been withdrawn by 
Shop Direct, having been a customer of theirs for many years. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Shop Direct acted reasonably when it 
withdrew Mrs Ys credit facility following an assessment in February 2021.
Mrs Ys complaint centres around the fact despite having been a loyal and long-standing 
customer of Shop Direct, it took away her ability to trade on her account without notice or 
good reason. Mrs Y says she only had issues while the Covid pandemic was affecting her 
family and thought finance companies like Shop Direct were there to help her in those 
circumstances, but in fact it has made matters worse. 
The first thing to say here is Shop Direct have shown Mrs Y forbearance when it provided a 
Covid payment holiday or account freeze as they refer. From the information I have seen 
Shop Direct provided an initial Covid payment holiday from early June 2020 until mid-August 
2020 and a further three-month payment freeze following a second request in late 
September 2020.
That arrangement falls in line with the guidance set by the Financial Conduct Authority in 
April 2020 and businesses like Shop Direct could agree up to a maximum of two, three-
month payment holidays subject to application. Having said that Mr N on his wifes behalf, 
disputed when the second payment holiday was to end, Mrs Y and he believed it was three 
months ending in December 2020, while Shop Direct have told this service it ended in mid-
November 2020. 
I can see from the statements provided by Shop Direct a notice was issued to Mrs Y as she 
had missed December 2020s payment on her Shop Direct account but this issue seemed to 
have been adequately resolved when Mr N raised a complaint about this and the fees 
charged were refunded. 
What happened next appears Shop Direct undertook an account assessment, following the 
expiry of the account freeze/payment holiday. In a telephone conversation in early January 
2021 Mr N and his wife were informed the account block had been removed and the existing 
credit facilities were now back in place. But when Mrs Y attempted to use her account, she 
couldnt, and it was only then she discovered her account credit facility had been withdrawn.
While I accept Shop Direct have the right to withdraw any credit facility for its customers 
following an assessment, where I do have an issue is Shop Direct not providing any notice of 
this in writing  to Mrs Y other than in its final response letter in February 2021.
I did request a copy of this notice from Shop Direct, who provided this service with a generic 
standard letter it issues customers when reducing customers limits, which it says it sent to 
Mrs Y in September 2021. But this doesnt coincide with the date the facility was withdrawn 
in February  2021 nor is it a letter of notice to withdraw the facility completely, as I 
understand has happened here. 
So, while I cant tell Shop Direct it must reinstate the credit facility to Mrs Y, thats a business 
decision for them to make, I do feel the way it has communicated this isnt what I would 
expect to see. Here over the telephone initially, Shop Direct led Mr N and Mrs Y to believe all 
was fine, but then very shortly afterwards went on to withdraw the facility and I cant see it 
provided any formal written notice to Mrs Y it had done so.
With that in mind I propose Shop Direct pay Mrs Y £150 by way of compensation for the 
trouble and upset this has caused her. 
While Shop Direct wont be happy with my provisional decision, I am satisfied this is a fair 
outcome here.  Both Mrs Y and Shop Direct responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me to make a final decision.
I gave both Mrs Y and Shop Direct until 20 July 2022 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision. 
Mrs Y accepted my provisional decision but Shop Direct didnt and crucially have now 
provided further evidence to support its objection to my provisional decision. 
In view of this I sent both sides a second provisional decision, where I said:
As I said in my provisional decision, Shop Direct have the right to withdraw credit facilities 
following an internal assessment and I cant tell them it must reinstate such facilities, but my 
issue here was I wasnt provided with any evidence to show it had communicated that 
decision in writing to Mrs Y. 
Since my provisional decision was issued, Shop Direct have now provided this service with a 
copy of an email it sent to Mrs Y at her registered email address dated 19 January 2021, 
which advises that  her credit facility was being withdrawn. In that email it asks Mrs Y to 
contact them, providing a telephone number for her to call if she had any queries about this.  
Taking this new information into account, while this withdrawal of facility email could have 
been provided earlier when I requested it, its fair to say Shop Direct did provide the written 
notice of the withdrawal of the credit facility to Mrs Y - with that in mind I am now satisfied it 
has met its obligations here. 
While Mrs Y will be disappointed with my provisional decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Shop Direct. 
Mrs Y responded to my second provisional decision, so the case has now been passed back 
to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Mrs Y and Shop Direct until 26 August 2022 to accept or reject my second 
provisional decision. Ive heard nothing further from Shop Direct, but Mrs Ys representative 
Mr N didnt agree with my second provisional decision. Mr N says the email Shop Direct 
sent, was sitting in the junk folder of Mrs Ys email address and they were unaware of it. 
Mr N went on to say Shop Direct could have called or written a letter to them, given they 
were long standing customers, and he felt Shop Directs actions were harsh and unfair, 
when taking away Mrs Ys credit facilities.
While I understand Mr N feels it was unfair of Shop Direct to take away the credit facility in 
place, its not my role to tell Shop Direct to whom it must provide credit facilities, once it has 
made a business decision following an internal assessment, as it did here. As I have said 
before, whats important is if such a decision is made, then Shop Direct should have made 
Mrs Y aware of that, which wasnt immediately apparent from my initial provisional decision. 
But since then, this service was provided with evidence that an email was sent to Mrs Ys 
correct email address regarding the withdrawal of the credit facility and this email has since 
been located by her, but unfortunately this went into her junk mail folder. While that is unfortunate, and I can understand both Mr Ns and Mrs Ys frustration, I cant hold Shop 
Direct responsible for that. 
While Mr N and Mrs Y may not agree, Shop Direct carried out an assessment and made a 
business decision to remove the credit facilities available and I cant tell them it cant. In 
addition, Shop Direct  wrote to Mrs Y to inform her of that decision, asking her to contact 
them to discuss matters, which is what I would have expected of them in the circumstances.
While I know Mr N and Mrs Y feel strongly about the matter, I cant say Mr Ns comments 
change my second provisional decision, so my final decision remains the same. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman