DRN-3394712
The complaint
Mr E complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) marked his credit file.
What happened
Mr E had a credit card from Vanquis. In September 2020, the balance was £923.23 and the 
limit was £1,000. In April 2020, Mr E asked for a payment holiday for three months - as his 
income was affected by the pandemic. Vanquis agreed this in line with the pandemic support 
scheme which was in operation at the time. Payments were stopped for three months, and 
credit reference agencies werent to be notified. Interest was charged. But Mr Es credit file 
was marked with missed payments, a Notice of Default was sent to Mr E on 8 May 2020, 
and the account was passed to a debt collection agency to manage repayments.
In September 2020, the minimum payment due was £43.78. This wasnt paid by Mr E. The 
payments for October 2020, November 2020, December 2020, and January 2021 also 
werent paid. Mr Es credit file was marked with the missed payments for those months.
Mr E twice complained to Vanquis. Firstly, on the three-month payment holiday in April 2020 
 he said that his credit file had been marked and it shouldnt have been  as this wasnt part 
of the payment holiday scheme. And it also wasnt fair that his account had been passed to a 
debt collection agency.
On Mr Es first complaint, Vanquis apologised. They said theyd made an error when they set 
up the payment holiday, and Mr Es credit file should not have been marked with missed 
payments. Neither should the debt have been passed to a debt collection agency. They 
agreed to remove the markers from Mr Es credit file for the months of April 2020 to July 
2020 and recalled the debt from the debt collection agency. They deleted the arrears on Mr 
Es account and paid compensation of £225 to his card account. In their final response, 
Vanquis said that the compensation payment wouldnt be counted as a monthly payment 
into the account  in other words, Mr E would still have to make the contractual monthly 
payments.
Mr E then complained a second time - in February 2021. He said that despite what Vanquis 
had committed to do, his credit file hadnt been changed for the months of April 2020 to July 
2020. And he also complained that the markers on his credit file for October 2020 to January 
2021 werent fair. Vanquis had blocked his access to the Vanquis app, and that was the way 
he paid into his account. He worked long hours and couldnt  phone Vanquis to make 
payments or use any other method. Because Vanquis had blocked access to the app, he 
said the missed payment markers were unfair and should be removed. He said his credit 
record had been unfairly affected.
On Mr Es second complaint, Vanquis apologised that they hadnt removed the markers from 
Mr Es credit file for the months of April 2020 to July 2020. This was their error. They 
removed them and offered compensation of £150. On the matter of the missed payment 
markers for October 2020 to January 2021   Vanquis said Mr E hadnt made a payment for 
those months and so they should remain in place. Mr Es access to the app had been 
blocked since the Notice of Default was sent in May 2020. Vanquis said there were several 
other ways that Mr E could use to make payments.
Mr E didnt agree and didnt accept Vanquis offer of compensation of £150. He brought his 
complaint to us. Our  investigator said that Vanquis had dealt with Mr Es complaints 
reasonably. On the matter of the payment holiday, theyd apologised for their error in not 
setting it up correctly, committed to change his credit file and paid compensation of £225. 
And then, later, when Mr E said the credit file hadnt been changed as theyd said it would  
they put that right and offered compensation of £150. He though that was fair. He said that 
the markers on Mr Es credit file for October 2020 to January 2021 were fair as hed not 
made the payments for those months. He said that Mr E couldve used other ways of making 
the payments  such as a bank transfer, or over the phone.
Mr E didnt agree. He said the app was his only way of making the payments. He worked 
long hours and so couldnt call Vanquis to make payments, especially as the wait times were 
long. He said that had Vanquis advised him that the app was blocked, he could have made 
other arrangements to pay. Mr E asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two aspects to Mr Es complaint: firstly, what happened in April 2020 when he 
asked for the payment holiday and secondly, the missed payments in October 2020 to 
January 2021  and the affect on his credit file. 
Payment Holiday - April 2020 to June 2020: I can see that Vanquis made an error here as 
they didnt set up the payment holiday as they should have. They marked Mr Es credit file 
with missed payments for the months of April 2020 to July 2020  when, as part of the 
pandemic support scheme, they  shouldnt have. They also sent him a Notice of Default and 
passed his account to a debt collection agency. In August 2020, Vanquis admitted their 
errors here, apologised and put things right by saying they would amend Mr Es credit file; 
take the account back from the debt collection agency; and paid compensation of £225. 
They also deleted the arrears markers on Mr Es account  so effectively, everything started 
again. Mr E accepted this as a resolution of his complaint. 
But unfortunately  what then happened was that Vanquis didnt change Mr Es credit file as 
theyd agreed to. So, his credit record suffered until he called them again in February 2021 
and March 2021 Ive listened the calls he had with Vanquis at that time. Vanquis 
apologised and changed Mr Es credit file for the months of April 2020 to July 2020 (as they 
should have done before).  For this further error, Vanquis offered Mr E another payment of 
compensation of £150. I must consider whether thats the right amount. Mr E has said to us 
that because of Vanquis error, his credit score was affected. While its likely that it didnt 
help his score  there are other aspects which would feed into Mr Es credit score  such as 
any other credit facilities, and I cant be certain whether his score was solely affected by 
what Vanquis did. Im sure it was stressful and frustrating for him - as he said he was proud 
of his previous good score. But equally, I cant be certain as to the cause and effect of the 
change in his credit score. And  to be fair, Mr Ws credit file was only affected for a fairly 
short period before it was put right  for six to seven months  because of Vanquis error. 
And so  I think that their offer of £150 is a fair one.
Missed Payments between October 2020  January 2021:  All lenders, including Vanquis, 
have an obligation to report accurate information to credit reference agencies and these 
cant be removed or changed  unless theyve made an error. Mr E didnt make any 
payments after August 2020  and his credit file was marked as such for the months between October 2020 and January 2021. Mr E didnt make a payment between the end pf 
the payment holiday and 26 February 2021  when a debit card payment of £159.18 was 
made. He says it was because he couldnt make payments using the app as hed done 
before. He said other methods of payment werent possible for him to use. And on the calls I 
listened to  Mr E also says he wasnt aware of how much needed to be paid. So, Ive 
considered his arguments.
I looked at Vanquis communications to Mr E at the time. On 3 November 2020, Vanquis 
sent a Notice of Sums in Arrears with the arrears at £66.86. It said that Mr E should contact 
Vanquis if he didnt pay the arrears off. I can also see that Mr E was sent monthly 
statements which showed the amounts due each month and showed that the previous 
month hadnt been paid. By January 2021, the arrears were £113.02 and the amount to be 
paid that month was £136.10. The statement said You have failed to make your minimum 
paymentit could make it more difficult for you to obtain credit in the future A Notice of 
Sums in Arrears was also sent on 3 January 2021 showing the arrears of £113.02. So  I 
think that Vanquis gave sufficient information to Mr E about his account, and the 
consequences of non-payment.
The statements also showed Mr Es Vanquis account number and sort code, together with a 
paying-in slip. This couldve been used at a bank to pay into the account. Mr E has said he 
didnt have time to visit a bank. Nor did he have time to call Vanquis to make a payment. But 
there were other ways  he  couldve used online banking (using his mobile phone) to make 
payments. He couldve set up a monthly standing order from his bank account to his Vanquis 
account  this couldve been done online. Overall, I think its reasonable to say that Mr E 
must have been aware of the payments he needed to make and there were sufficient 
alternative ways of doing that  if he couldnt use Vanquis app. And so  in respect of the 
missed payments markers in October 2020 to January 2021  I dont think its reasonable to 
ask Vanquis to remove these.
In summary  my decision is that Vanquis dealt with Mr Es complaints about the payment 
holiday reasonably and paid compensation of £225. And that was right for what happened.
When they didnt remove the missed payment markers from Mr Es credit file as theyd 
agreed to - I think that compensation of £150 is right for that, as Ive explained. I cant see 
that this had been paid and this decision tells Vanquis to make that payment to Mr E. On the 
matter of the missed payment markers on Mr Es credit file between October 2020 to 
January 2021  these were applied fairly and should remain in place.
(Continued - decision)
My final decision
I uphold Mr Es complaint that Vanquis didnt remove the markers from his credit file as 
theyd agreed to for April 2020 to July 2020. Vanquis Bank Limited has already made an 
offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Vanquis Bank Limited should pay £150. If Mr E wishes to accept this, he should contact Vanquis to arrange to have this paid to his bank account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman