DRN-2821389
The complaint
 O complain that Caxton FX Ltd (Caxton) reversed a currency trade at their cost. 
What happened
O used Caxton to buy and sell currency. On 12 March 2020 they booked to sell USD181,865 
and buy GBP142,583. The rate was 1.2755. On 18 March 2020, the trade was reversed. 
The amount credited to O was USD170,465  a difference of USD11,400.
O complained. They said they were told on the phone that there would be no loss if the 
trade was reversed. And they pointed to an email dated 18 March 2020 which they said 
showed the reverse trade taking place at the original rate  therefore without any loss to 
them. They said there was no reason for Caxton to stop the sale of USD as theyd 
originated from the UK, not from a country which was on Caxtons banned list.
Caxton said the USD originated from a country which was on their banned list, therefore 
they didnt want to proceed with the trade. The difference in money paid back to O was 
because they had to reverse the trade, and sell GBP and buy USD  to give the USD 
back to O. The rate had moved against O. They were entitled to ask O to pay the 
difference  this was included in their terms and conditions. They said they couldnt trace 
the call which O referred to.
O brought their complaint to us. Our investigator looked at what had happened. He said that 
Caxton were entitled to charge the cost of the reverse trade to O  it was in their terms and 
conditions. And they could also choose not to do the trade as the USD originated from a 
country which was on Caxtons banned list. So  he said he believed theyd acted fairly.
O disagreed and asked that an ombudsman look at their complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I take a different view to our investigator. Following his view, we asked Caxton again to look 
again for the call  which they provided. And to explain their email to O dated 18 March 2020 
- which said the trade was confirmed to buy USD181,865 and sell GBP142,583 at a rate of 
1.2755  so apparently reversing the original trade at no cost to O. We also asked them 
about their compliance rules regarding prohibited countries.
Theres no doubt that Caxtons terms and conditions entitled them to close out the 
contract in the circumstances of what happened, and charge any costs to O. They say 
(extract):
CFX (Caxton) reserves the right to close out or terminate all or part of any Orders if:-
.CFX is requested to do so by any regulatory body or considers it desirable or 
necessary to do so for its own protection or as required by law
Without limitation to any other rights and remedies CFX may have, if the Client wishes to 
alter or terminate the terms of an Order and CFX is willing to agree to this, the Client shall 
pay a minimum administration fee of £150 on each occasion and the Client shall be liable 
for any losses due to a change in the value of the contract through currency movement. 
Such charges are to be paid within 48 hours of CFXs consent to the alteration or 
termination.
Ive thought about what happened here. Ive listened to the call. It takes place after 
Caxton have advised O that the trade wont go ahead. It says:
O asks: will you revert all the USD back to me?
Caxton: we will convert it back from GBP to USD in the worst-case scenario
O: no, no, I sent you USD and I want USD back
Caxton: you will get the exact amount back I believe and then 
Caxton we wont short change you if we have to reverse the trade
I take this as a clear statement by Caxton that there would be no cost to O of reversing 
the trade.
Turning to the email of 18 March 2020  this says:
Balance due; GBP142,583.30 +GBP0.00your trade confirmation detailsCurrency 
Amount Bought: USD181,865, Currency Amount Sold: GBP 142,583, Rate 1.2755.
To me, this is a clear indication that O would receive USD181,865, and that the trade was 
therefore reversed at the original rate of 1.2755. We asked Caxton about this. They said 
this information was provided before they viewed the current market rates. Ive thought 
about what they told us  and what they said might be the case, but the fact is that they 
wrote to O and said O would receive USD181,865. So, they shouldve done that.
Turning to whether Caxton were entitled to not complete the trade because the country of 
origin of the USD was on their prohibited list. Theyve shown us their list of banned 
countries and the country in question is listed. Caxton are entitled to establish their own 
compliance processes  and they must follow regulatory guidelines here. This service 
cannot interfere with those. O maintained that the USD came from the UK. Caxton showed 
us evidence they originated from that country. But - Im not going to comment any further 
on those aspects.
So, we have a situation here where Caxton have followed their normal processes  but 
strictly following a procedure or process can lead to an unfair outcome for a customer in 
the individual circumstances of their situation. I think thats whats happened here - 
because they told O that they wouldnt have to suffer any costs of reversing the trade.
So, my provisional decision is that Caxton did commit to returning USD181,865 to O. And
so, Caxton should pay to O USD11,400. Its only fair that this is converted to GBP at the rate
used in the email dated 18 March 2020  1.2755. This was the rate of the original trade. This
gives an amount of GBP8,937.67. And, because O have been without that amount of money
since that time, Caxton should also pay interest on it of 8% per annum simple from 18 March
2020 to the date of when they pay the money to O. In broad terms, this is just over £750,
assuming a period of 13 months.
O had no specific comments. Caxton said they didnt agree with the provisional decision but 
didnt bring forward any new arguments. They asked why there should be an additional 
payment of 8% per annum simple  this seemed high.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On Caxtons point about the payment of 8% per annum simple  this is covered in the 
Financial Conduct Authority's (FCA) handbook (section 3.7). Its designed to compensate 
consumers and small businesses for being without the money for a period  as O was in this 
case, to the extent of USD11,400. Ive considered Caxtons question, and wont be departing 
from what I said in my provisional decision, for the reasons I gave in it. So, my final decision 
is that Caxton should do what Ive already suggested here.  
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. 
Caxton FX Ltd must:
Pay to O USD11,400 at 1.2755 - £8,937.67.
Pay to O interest at 8% per annum simple from 18 March 2020 to the date of its
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman