DRN-1291616
The complaint
Mr E complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited declined a claim under his gadget 
insurance policy when he lost his mobile phone and a tablet. He also complained about its 
handling of the claim.
What happened
Mr E had gadget insurance with Assurant. On 30 September 2019 he made a claim when he 
lost his mobile phone and a tablet while out shopping. Assurant asked for proof of 
ownership, which Mr E provided, and confirmation that the phone had been barred. 
It contacted Mr E on 2 October 2019 when initial checks showed the phone hadnt been 
barred. Mr E explained the proof of last usage confirmed the barring date, but Assurant was 
unable to check the information due system issues. 
It also asked Mr E for the telephone number associated with the phone, whether he used the 
devices on a daily basis and whether hed ever tried to sell or trade them in. And it asked 
questions about the security features on each device and questions about the shopping trip.
Mr E said hed been window shopping and hadnt gone into any shops. He said he used the 
devices every day and had used the phone to make a call the morning it had gone missing 
and that the tablet was last used by him or his children a few days before it was stolen. He 
said he couldnt remember the phone number because he only used it for outgoing calls, and 
there were no applications or security measures on either device because his children used 
them to play games. He also said hed never tried to sell or trade in either of the devices.
But Assurant had proof that the tablet had been at a pawn shop from 2 September 2019, 
and that Mr E had picked up the device up on the 30 September 2019, the date he made the 
claim. As this amounted to evidence that the tablet hadnt been recently used and that it had 
been traded in, Assurant concluded Mr E had provided false or inaccurate information and 
so it declined the claim. 
Mr E wasnt happy with the outcome of the claim and so he complained to Assurant. He 
complained about its decision to decline the claim, the length of time it had taken to assess 
the claim, and the service hed received.
Assurant upheld the complaint in part. It explained that on 2 October 2019, it had asked Mr E 
for proof of identification and proof of barring which hed provided the following day. But it 
explained that, it had been unable to view the documentation because of a system error, 
causing a delay in its assessment of the claim. It apologised for the inconvenience this had 
caused and said the error had since been fixed. But it maintained the claim was correctly 
declined.
Mr E complained to this service, but our investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He thought it was unusual that Mr E hadnt told Assurant hed picked the tablet up 
from the pawn shop on the day it was stolen and that the tablet was last used by himself or 
his children a few days before it was stolen, despite the pawnbroker having confirmed it had 
the tablet from 2 September 2019 to 30 September 2019. He also thought it was unusual for 
Mr E have disabled all the security and tracking on the devices as hed told Assurant he took 
them both out with him every day. He didnt think the question about whether Mr E had tried 
to trade in either of the devices was particularly clear, but he felt that, considering hed 
picked the tablet up from the pawn shop on the day it was stolen, he should have mentioned 
this to Assurant. He concluded Mr E hadnt given inaccurate information about his usage of 
the tablet and Assurants decision to decline the claim was reasonable.
Our investigator was also satisfied that Assurant had apologised for the delay in 
investigating the claim and he didnt think it needed do anything else. He said he understood 
Mr E was unhappy that he was confronted about the discrepancies in the information hed 
given but that, while the call handler did talk over him, she was generally professional, and 
he didnt agree Mr E had been bullied.
Mr E wasnt happy with the outcome of his complaint and has asked for it to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. Hes argued that not everyone knows their own phone number. He feels 
Assurant are hiding information because he sent proof of usage several times. And he 
believes Assurants question about whether hed sold or traded the devices was unclear. 
Hes explained he doesn't use passwords or face recognition because hes no good with 
gadget. He thinks Assurant took too long to investigate the claim, he doesnt believe there 
was a systems problem and maintains he was bullied into providing incorrect answers by 
Assurants agent.
Assurant declined Mr Es claim because it believed his responses to its enquiries were 
inconsistent. The policy states we will refuse to honour your claim if you knowingly provide 
us with false or fraudulently exaggerated information to support your claim in any respect, 
therefore its for me to consider whether Assurants decision to decline the claim on this basis 
was reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that not everyone knows their own phone number and the fact Mr E didnt know his 
number doesnt mean he was deliberately trying to stop Assurant from checking his phone 
usage. The same applies to the use of the password or facial recognition functions.
However, Mr E said hed lost both devices on 30 September 2019, and, although he couldnt 
be sure, the tablet was last used a few days before he made the claim. But Assurant has 
shown the tablet was at a pawn shop from 2 September 2019 to 30 September 2019. 
Further, while I accept the question about having tried to sell or trade the devices could have 
been clearer, in the circumstances, its not unreasonable to expect this to have prompted Mr 
E to mention the fact theyd both been at a pawn shop. That, along with the fact Mr E said 
the tablet was used shortly before the claim when that simply wasnt possible persuades me 
Assurants decision to decline the claim based on the fact it had received inaccurate 
information was fair and reasonable.
During the call dated 18 October 2019, Mr E was asked a number of questions as part of 
Assurants investigation of the claim and Im satisfied those questions were reasonable. I 
can understand why Mr E was unhappy about the way Assurants agent spoke to him, but 
Assurant has apologised for this and has given an assurance that feedback has been given 
to the agent for coaching and training purposes. Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Assurant accepted its investigation was delayed. It explained it had trouble viewing the 
information Mr E had sent in and apologised. Im satisfied that was fair and, taking into 
account the outcome of Assurants investigations, I dont think the timescale, or the nature of 
the investigations, was unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman