DRN-3927717
The complaint
Mrs C complains Covea Insurance Plc handled her property insurance claim poorly.
What happened
In February 2021 Mrs C claimed on a Covea property insurance policy. She wanted the
insurer to cover water damage to her property. In June 2021 Covea declined the claim in full. 
It said the property had been unoccupied for over 60 days prior to the loss, so in line with the 
terms, there was no cover in place.
After Mrs C complained Covea issued, in November 2021, a final response letter. It
agreed to cover the water damage. It said it should have changed its position in response to
property usage information she provided in July 2021. It paid her £150 compensation. In
March 2022 Covea finally settled the claim by paying Mrs C around £1,300 for the repairs.
In the summer of 2022 Covea offered, and paid, Mrs C a further £2,500 compensation. It
didnt accept her loss of rent claim against the policy. But it said that without its delay the
property may have been relet sooner.
She wasnt satisfied with that amount and made a further complaint. In August 2022 Covea
issued a final response to that complaint. It declined a loss of rent claim. It said Mrs Cs had 
moved out before the date of loss - so she wouldnt have been receiving rent. Covea did 
accept it had been responsible for some unnecessary delay but believed the £2,500 to be 
enough to make up for this.
Mrs C wasnt satisfied so came to this service. She wants Covea to cover loss of rental
income from early 2021  plus other costs that would usually have been covered by a
tenant. She feels its poor handling of the claim meant she was unable to let out the property.
In December 2022 our investigator considered the complaint. She said Covea had made
mistakes, but the compensation already paid was enough. She felt the loss of rent part of the
claim had been correctly declined in line with the terms of the policy. Mrs C didnt accept, so
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
In April 2023 I issued a provisional decision. In it I explained why I couldnt look at complaint 
points addressed in the November 2021 final response. I said I could look at those 
considered in the August 2022 final response. I explained I didnt intend to require the 
insurer to pay her anything extra or do anything differently. The reasons I gave form part of 
this final decision. So Ive copied them in below.  
Finally I invited Mrs C and Covea to provide anything they would like me to consider before 
issuing this final decision. Neither party raised any objection to my finding that I couldnt 
consider complaints addressed in the November 2021 final response. So I havent 
considered that issue in this final decision. Covea didnt response to my position on the loss 
of rent. Mrs C didnt agree with my intended outcome. She provided some further comments 
and email correspondence between her and Covea.  
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered if it was fair for Covea to decline to the loss of rent cover 
provided by the policy terms. The policy says cover is provided for the actual amount 
of reduction in the rent received solely in consequence of the insured damage. 
Covea says because there was no tenant in place at the time of loss there was no 
reduction in rent as a result of the covered damage. That seems a reasonable 
position to me. The property was, when the loss was discovered, subject to other 
works and untenanted. I cant see there was a loss solely attributable to the escape 
of water.
Ive also considered if Covea should cover some financial loss, or loss of rent, 
outside of the policy terms as a result of poor handling of the claim. Its accepted it 
caused unnecessary delay. I agree it did. As an example, even after accepting the 
damage part of the claim it took a further three to four months to pay the cash 
settlement.
So, without getting into the fairness of its original decline decision, Im satisfied 
Coveas responsible for unnecessary delay. Mrs C feels it should cover her rental 
income and other expenses for a period exceeding 12 months  a sum of around 
£11,000 rather than the £2,500 its paid so far. However, I dont intend to require it 
cover any further financial loss or additional compensation.
Covea accepts it delayed a relet of the property  but it only paid £2,500 because it 
feels Mrs C should have done more to mitigate her losses. I think thats a fair 
position. After a few months of delay it would have been reasonable for her to realise 
the need to take steps to cover the cost of the work herself whilst pursuing her claim. 
The cost of the repairs for the relevant damage was relatively small  around £1,300. 
And it was work that would always need to take place if she wished to relet the 
property.
Ive considered what Mrs C says about her financial situation - rent being her only 
income, her having already committed funds to the propertys refurbishment and so 
on. But I think its likely she could have raised the required funds, or found an 
alternative method, to complete the repairs.
Coveas payment of £2,500 is the equivalent of two to three months rent and 
expenses  plus a reasonable amount to compensate Mrs C for unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience of its delay and poor service. For the reasons given 
above I feel thats a fair amount to make up for its mistakes. So I dont intend to 
require Covea to pay anything extra or do anything differently.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes all of Mrs Cs latest information. Having done so, Im not going to require 
Covea to do anything differently. Mrs C denied she could have done more to mitigate the loss. Ive considered again what she 
says about her financial situation. But, considering the cost of the repairs, I still think she 
probably could have raised the required funds, through borrowing or another method, to get 
the property to a rentable condition. 
Overall Im still satisfied Coveas offer of £2,500 is a fair and reasonable amount to 
recognise the impact of its mistakes. Its equivalent to two to three months rent and 
expenses, plus an amount for compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Covea Insurance Plc to pay Mrs C anything 
extra or to do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman