DRN-4281938
The complaint
Mr K complains about how HDi Global Specialty SE (HDi) assessed claims under his pet 
insurance policy for the treatment of his dog.
References to HDi include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mr K had a pet insurance policy with HDi covering his dog, taken out in October 2019. In 
March 2023 Mr Ks dog suffered a stroke. He contacted HDi to ask if there was vet he could 
take his dog, and Mr K took it to an out-of-hours vet. Sadly, the dog had to be euthanised. Mr 
K submitted two claims, one for treatment (£400.03) and one for euthanising the dog (£288). 
On the first claim, HDi deducted £75 from the out-of-hours vet fee (as the amount by which 
the fee exceeded the £100 policy limit on out-of-hours fees). HDi also deducted a £60 policy 
excess and £53.01 for the 20% co-payment proportion payable by Mr K on claims (so the 
claim was settled at a net value of £212.03). On the second claim, they deducted: £120 for 
cremation costs; £68 for the euthanasia (as the amount by which the fee exceeded the £100 
policy limit); and £20 for the 20% co-payment. So, the claim was settled net at £80. 
Mr K also thought his dog would be covered under the provisions in the policy when a pet 
passed away. But HDi said the dog wasnt covered under those provisions, as it was more 
than nine years old (something Mr K said he wasnt aware of).
Unhappy at what had happened, Mr K complained to HDi. He said the death from illness 
clause was vague (as was the reduction in respect of vet fees) and it wasnt made clear to 
him when obtaining a quote before taking out the policy. Nor did his renewal notice make it 
clear the clause wouldnt apply to dogs over a certain age. And he hadnt received a copy of 
the policy terms and conditions, so wasnt aware of any policy limits (on claims or fees).
HDi didnt uphold the complaint. They set out the way theyd assessed each claim, including 
the deductions theyd made to calculate the net amounts payable. They said when Mr K took 
out his policy he was sent a policy schedule, policy wording and HDis terms of business. 
HDi referred to specific policy wording setting out the deductions for the policy excess; co-
payment; out-of-hours; and euthanasia deductions (and cremation costs). Based on this, HDi 
said theyd assessed the claims correctly under the policy terms and conditions (and in line 
with their aim to settle claims within four weeks of being received).
Mr K then complained to this service. He was unhappy at what had happened, the 
deductions on his claims and the dog not being covered where a pet passed away. He 
hadnt been provided with the policy terms and conditions when he took out the policy (nor 
were they provided at the policy renewal in October 2022). Hed suffered financially, 
including an estimated cost of £1,500 to £2,000 for a new dog of the same, pedigree breed. 
And emotionally from how HDi had dealt with the claim, showing no compassion for the loss 
of his dog. He wanted HDi to cover the cost of replacing his dog (£1,500 being the maximum 
sum under the policy), the cost of cremation (£120) and a goodwill payment of £250.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint, concluding HDi hadnt acted unfairly. The 
policy didnt provide cover for death from illness or cremation costs where a dog was over 
nine years old. He was also satisfied HDi had provided a copy of the policy terms and 
conditions when Mr K took out the policy and at renewal in 2022 (through an embedded link 
in the renewal notice). The £100 limit on out-of-hours treatment was also set out in the policy 
(and would have applied whether Mr K had taken his dog to any other vet outside of normal 
hours). The policy provided for an excess of £60 for each claim per condition and a 20% co-
payment proportion of claim cost. He also thought the £100 limit for the cost of euthanasia 
reasonable. 
Mr K disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. He said there was no mention on the age restriction (for the death from illness 
and cremation costs) in any of the documents HDi had provided to him. And no policy 
wording was sent to him when the policy was renewed  it wasnt sufficient for important 
information (on fee limits and deductions) in a document only to be accessible through a link 
(rather than sent as an attachment or directly).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to recognise the loss of his dog will have been upsetting for Mr K, in the 
circumstances hes described. Losing a pet is always distressing, added to which is the 
process of making a claim and it being assessed. Ive borne this in mind when deciding, as 
is my role here, whether HDi have acted fairly towards Mr K. 
There are several aspects to Mr Ks complaint. First the deductions applied to his claims. 
Second, that his dog wasnt covered by the provisions of the policy that apply where a pet 
passes away. Specifically, Mr K says he wasnt told (or otherwise made aware) that the 
provisions dont apply when a dog passes away over nine years of age. Finally, Mr K says 
he wasnt provided with the policy terms and conditions, either when he took out the policy or 
at policy renewal in October 2022.
On the first issue, the application of deductions to the claims made by Mr K, Ive considered 
what the policy terms and conditions provide for, in respect of each of the deductions (or 
limits on specific treatments). In their final response, HDi referred to specific sections of the 
policy for each deduction, as follows, under Section 1: Veterinary Fees (What is not 
covered):
1. i The fixed excess is a fixed amount payable once per injury or illness per period of 
insurance
1. ii. if your pet is aged 6 years or older there will also be a co-payment applicable 
to any claims made  this will be detailed in your policy schedule.
19. The cost of any treatment outside normal surgery hoursFor necessary 
treatment outside of normal veterinary hours, the charge applied to consultations is 
limited to a maximum of £100.
22. Any charges greater than £100 in respect of euthanasia even in the case of your 
vet putting your pet to sleep to alleviate incurable and inhumane suffering following 
an accident or illness.
44. Cremation costs if your dog is aged 9 years or olderIve checked the policy schedule for the amounts of the policy excess and the co-payment 
figure  they are £60 and 20% respectively.
Taking these points together, Ive concluded HDi applied them to Mr Ks claims in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions.
On the issue of the provisions for the passing away of a pet (a dog) not applying where a 
dog is over nine years of age, the IPID, under a heading Are there any restrictions on cover 
includes the following statement:
! Death of your pet from illness, for dogs aged 9 years and over and cats aged 11 
years and over at the time of the loss.
This makes it clear Mr Ks dog (born in 2010) was over nine years of age at the time it 
passed away (March 2023). So, it wouldnt qualify for the £1,500 benefit payable under the 
policy for Death from Illness. Ill come onto the issue of whether Mr K was made aware of 
this provision when I consider whether Mr K was provided with information about the policy 
(including the age limit to qualify for the Death from Illness benefit).
On the issue of Mr K not being provided with a copy of the policy terms and conditions, Ive 
looked at the documentation when the policy was taken out and at renewal in October 2022.
Mr K provided a copy of the quote he obtained before taking out the policy. It summarises 
the key policy limits and specifically highlights the co-payment proportion (20%) as Mr Ks 
dog was over six years of age. It also sets out death from illness (cover limit of £1,000  
though the Policy Schedule sets out £1,500) and policy excess (£80  though the Policy 
Schedule states £60). The quote also refers to the policy wording (and IPID) for full details of 
cover. The quote also asks that a box be ticked (before the quote can be taken up and a 
policy taken out) to confirm the Policy Wording, IPID and Terms of Business (all of which are 
listed as links to the full documents) have been read and understood.
So, Ive concluded Mr K was provided with key information about the policy (including links 
to key documents, including the full Policy Wording) before he took out the policy. And he 
was specifically asked to confirm hed read the documents and understood them.
On the renewal invitation, this was sent by email to Mr K. Certain documents were attached 
to the email (such as the Policy Schedule and Statement of Fact. But others  including the 
full policy terms and conditions  were accessible through links within the email. So, while Mr 
K wasnt provided with the policy terms and conditions, they were accessible through the link 
(as were other documents including the Insurance Policy Information Document, IPID). And 
the email includes a statement that should Mr K prefer to receive of copy of the policy 
documents by post, then he can do so by calling HDi (a number is provided).
Ive considered Mr Ks point that important policy information should have been provided 
directly  not in a link in an email. However, I dont agree. Taking the point above about how 
Mr K took out the policy and that he received the renewal email, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for HDi to highlight the policy terms and conditions through a clear link in the 
email (or in hard copy, by post, on request). 
So, taking these points together, Ive concluded Mr K did have an opportunity to read the full 
policy terms and conditions both at the time (before) he took out the policy and subsequently 
at renewal of the policy. So, he could make an informed choice about whether the policy was 
suitable for his needs, and subsequently whether he wished to renew the policy.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman