DRN-2296603
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building Society (when it was trading under a 
different business name) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Theres only limited information now available about what happened. Its not clear how or 
exactly when PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs C. They say it wasnt ever discussed with them 
and simply added to the mortgage. 
Nationwides records show that Mr and Mrs C had PPI alongside the mortgage they took out 
in 2002. It protected the mortgage monthly repayments if Mr C became unexpectedly 
unemployed.  
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr and Mrs C disagree. 
Mr and Mrs C mainly say that PPI wasnt something they knew about or agreed to buy and 
they had savings they couldve used to pay the mortgage. 
So their complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
Im sorry Mr and Mrs C feel our adjudicator hasnt properly addressed all the questions they 
have asked. Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs C that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and 
Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its understandable that Mr and Mrs C mightnt have remembered in detail everything that 
happened when this PPI was set up on their mortgage account. This was a long time ago 
and so, whilst I dont doubt that theyre sure about everything theyve told us, what 
Mr and Mrs C say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. 
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely  making 
reasonable assumptions where necessary.
Usually Id look at the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been presented. Nationwide hasnt been able to provide 
anything signed by Mr and Mrs C from when the PPI was taken out. 
But I wouldnt expect Nationwide to have kept records dating back so far. A financial 
business isnt required to keep records indefinitely. When personal private information is no 
longer likely to be needed, it can be destroyed. Data protection laws set out rules about this. 
Destroying old records helps to keep customers private details secure. I can appreciate that 
Mr and Mrs C feel frustrated by the lack of information. But the fact that Nationwide cant 
now produce the sale documents isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint. 
Ive taken carefully into account what Mr and Mrs C have said about the way they arranged 
their mortgage. 
In order to uphold this complaint Id have to find it likely that Mr and Mrs C werent given a 
fair choice about PPI or that it was added to their mortgage account without their consent. 
But I cant fairly say this based on the limited information Ive got. 
The mortgage was a major financial commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mr and Mrs Cs home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and better protection than they had otherwise. 
So, I can see why Mr and Mrs C mightve felt PPI was useful to have.  
And it looks like they tailored the cover to meet their specific requirements at the time. I say 
this because they chose to take out only unemployment cover for Mr C (although as far as 
I can see accident and sickness cover wouldve been available to him as well). 
And given that it looks like only Mr C was in paid employment at the time, I think protecting 
his income is likely to have been an important consideration for Mr and Mrs C when they 
were arranging the mortgage .So I think its likely there was some discussion about this at 
the time. 
 
And, to my mind, thats borne out by the mortgage account statement that Mr and Mrs C 
provided. Although its undated as far as I can see, the information on it suggests to me that 
it was prepared around the time their mortgage was due to start. It clearly shows that 
Mortgage Payment Protection Insurance had been arranged on the mortgage account. So if 
this hadnt been something Mr and Mrs C had already discussed or PPI wasnt something 
they wanted, I think its more likely that they wouldve taken this up with the lender at the 
time. Ive seen nothing to make me think that they did that.
Based on the information Ive seen, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs C understood that it was 
up to them to say what, if any, PPI they wanted and that the cover they chose reflected their 
wishes at the time. 
Nationwide says didnt advise Mr and Mrs C to take out PPI. Thats consistent with what 
Mr and Mrs C have said  they have no recollection of PPI being personally recommended 
to them. I dont need to decide this point because I dont think PPI wouldve been unsuitable 
for them if it had been recommended. But Ive looked carefully at whether Nationwide gave 
Mr and Mrs C enough information to make a proper decision about whether PPI was right for 
them  and if it didn't do this, Ive thought about whether that makes any overall difference to 
the outcome of their complaint.
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr C lost his job unexpectedly 
and found himself out of work. This couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely to have 
been a difficult time. 
I've taken into account that Mr and Mrs C told us they had a significant amount of savings at 
the time. But this doesnt affect my overall view of their complaint.There was no guarantee when Mr and Mrs C took out this mortgage that they would always 
have savings to rely on because everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And, if Mr and Mrs C didnt put all their money towards keeping down the cost of the 
mortgage, perhaps because they preferred to keep savings intact to provide financial 
security or to spend on other things, then I think they wouldve valued the protection PPI 
offered. Having PPI meant that Mr and Mrs C could be sure theyd still be able to pay the 
mortgage monthly repayments without breaking into savings even if Mr C lost his job and 
became unemployed. 
Repeat claims were possible. So the policy offered Mr and Mrs C long term protection whilst 
they were buying their home.
Based on everything Ive seen about their circumstances at the time, I think the policy 
offered Mr and Mrs C a range of useful benefits. So I can see why Mr and Mrs C mightve 
wanted the security that having PPI gave them.
Its possible some information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look like 
this affected Mr C being able to make a claim. 
So, even if not everything was mentioned, I dont think its likely that having clearer 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations wouldve put Mr and Mrs C off 
buying the PPI. 
I dont know if or how policy costs were explained to Mr and Mrs C when they agreed to take 
out this PPI. But there was information on the mortgage account statement sent to 
Mr and Mrs C giving them advance notice of what the monthly cost would be. So they 
wouldve been able to see what theyd have to pay for the policy. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that the PPI wasnt affordable for them. And as this was a policy they paid for each 
month, Mr and Mrs C couldve cancelled at any time at no extra cost if they didnt want to pay 
for the cover. 
Taking everything into account, even if there were failings in the way Nationwide sold them 
PPI, I dont think clearer policy information wouldve put Mr and Mrs C off having PPI given 
the useful protection it offered them. I think its likely that they wouldve still bought the policy. 
So I dont find they are worse off as a result of anything that Nationwide did wrong. And 
theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.  
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr and Mrs C have 
said, including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. I appreciate they 
feel strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will come as a 
disappointment. In my decision I've dealt with all the main points that have an impact on the 
outcome of this complaint and I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help 
explain how Ive reached my decision.
Theres more information on our website about how we decide cases if Mr and Mrs C would 
like to see further details about this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 February 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman