DRN-4497584
The complaint
Mr S complains about Hastings Insurance Services Limited (HISL) and the service he 
received when he contacted them to make a claim on his van insurance policy.
Mr S has been represented by Ms B during the complaint process. For ease of reference, I 
will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Mr S or Ms B as Mr S 
throughout the decision.
What happened
Mr S held a van insurance policy, which was purchased through HISL, who acted as the 
broker and policy administrator. The policy itself was underwritten by a separate insurer, who 
Ill refer to as A.
Unfortunately, in February 2022, Mr S van was damaged by a third-party, through no fault of 
his own. So, he contacted HISL to make a claim. Due to the incident circumstances, HISL 
referred Mr S claim to an accident manage company (AMC), who Ill refer to as E, to 
manage Mr S claim on a credit hire and credit repair basis, as part of a separate credit 
agreement.
But E took longer than Mr S expected to complete the repairs to his van. And he was 
unhappy that E were unable to provide him with a replacement van until 1 April, explaining 
he was unable to work until this replacement van was provided. So, he wanted to be 
compensated for the upset hed been caused, and his loss of earnings during that period of 
time.
HISL responded to the complaint and upheld it. They accepted there had been delays in 
repairing Mr S van, and that E had failed to provide a suitable replacement van for an 
extended period of time. But HISL explained E would be contacting Mr S to address this with 
him directly, and they didnt offer to do anything more. Mr S remained unhappy with this 
response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They explained that, as E 
completed the repairs and provided the hire on a separate credit agreement, our service are 
unable to consider their actions. So, they explained we are only able to consider HISLs 
referral to E, and the information Mr S was provided at the time this decision was taken.
And having done so, our investigator thought the referral was unreasonable. And, 
considering Mr S entitlement on his own policy, they thought had HISLs referral been clear, 
Mr S wouldve most likely chosen to claim on his own insurance policy provided by A. So, 
they thought Mr S wouldve most likely received a replacement van sooner and because of 
this, they recommended HISL reimburse Mr S for his loss of earning, subject to proof of 
these losses being provided. And they thought HISL should pay Mr S an additional £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
HISL initially accepted this recommendation, as did Mr S. But, when Mr S provided what he 
felt was proof of his loss of earnings, HISL didnt agree. Our investigator thought the 
information Mr S provided was reasonable proof considering the situation and so, 
recommended HISL pay the £5,200 he was claiming for. HISL continued to disagree and so, 
the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 7 November 2023, where I explained my intention to 
uphold the complaint for the same reasons as those of our investigator but that what I 
intended to direct HISL to do differed. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its my intention to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as 
the investigator. But the directions I think HISL should take are different. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Before I explain why I intend to reach my decision, I think it is important for me to set out 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. In this situation, HISL acted in their role as broker, 
and the policy administrator. Its important to understand that HISL are not the insurer of the 
policy Mr S held, this was in fact A. Its also important to note that E completed the repairs, 
and provided the hire van, under a separate credit agreement in their role as an AMC. They 
were not working on behalf of HISL, or A. So, Im unable to consider Es actions, including 
Es own delays in providing Mr S with a suitable hire van or how long it took them to 
complete the repairs, as well as their communication with Mr S during this time.
What I am able to consider is the actions HISL took directly, in their role as policy 
administrator. And this is limited to the way they referred Mr S claim to E, and the 
information they provided to Mr S when doing so. And I note HISL have already accepted 
their referral was unreasonable when accepting our investigator recommendation initially. 
So, Im satisfied this is no longer in dispute.
But for completeness, I want to make it clear I have listened to the call between Mr S and 
HISL, where they referred his claim to E. And I dont think the information they provided to 
Mr S was clear, or that it gave him a reasonable amount of information that allowed him to 
make an informed decision on how he wished to proceed with this claim. So, Im satisfied 
HISL acted unfairly here and because of this, Ive then turned to what I think they should do 
to put things right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what HISL should do to put things right, any award or direction I make 
is intended to place Mr S back in the position he wouldve been in, had HISL acted fairly in 
the first place.
In this situation, had HISL acted fairly, I think they wouldve made it reasonably clear to Mr S 
that by allowing his claim to be referred to E, hed be entering into a separate, unregulated 
agreement rather than making use of his own insurance policy with A.
So, Ive then had to think about, on the balance of probabilities, what action Mr S would most 
likely have taken had this information been made clear. In this situation, I think Mr S 
assumed he was utilising his own insurance policy. And I note on this policy, he is entitled to 
a group 1 van as a replacement van while his own was being repaired, if he used As 
nominated repairer. So, I cant see there was a benefit to Mr S in using E under a separate 
agreement, other than the fact by choosing this option he wouldnt have to pay an excess. In 
the call with HISL, I dont think Mr S raised an excess payment as being an issue for him. But he did make clear he needed a replacement van. So, based on this, I think that, had 
HISL given Mr S a reasonable amount of information, he wouldve most likely chosen to 
claim on his own policy rather than use E.
Ive then had to think about what would most likely have happened, had Mr S chosen this 
option. I asked HISL to confirm which repairer and hire provider A wouldve used, had Mr S 
chosen to claim through his policy directly. This is because if it was confirmed that E would 
still have been used to provide these services, which was a possibility, then I dont think I 
would be able to say that the poor referral had a significant negative impact on Mr S, and the 
events that followed.
But I note HISL havent responded to provide this information. So, where information isnt 
provided despite our services request, I must assume HISL didnt respond as they were 
unable to provide information that would support their position. So, I have assumed that, had 
Mr S claimed on his own policy, he would most likely not have faced the delays he did 
regarding the repair of his van, and the providing of a replacement van.
And I note Mr S extensive comments explaining why the delay in being provided with a 
replacement van prevented him from working. I dont dispute Mr S testimony that he 
required a replacement van to work effectively, as I note he is self-employed and due to the 
nature of his profession, required several tools to complete his work.
And from what Ive seen, Mr S was without a van for 26 days, from the date of loss to the 
date a replacement van was eventually sourced. While the delay in sourcing a suitable van 
was ultimately Es responsibility under a separate agreement, had HISL acted fairly in the 
referral then I dont think E wouldve been used. So, I still think HISL are responsible for this 
delay as Im not satisfied Mr S would have incurred this delay when using his van insurer.
But crucially, for our service to consider loss of earnings, we need to see evidence that 
satisfies us of what these earnings wouldve reasonably been. This is because we are an 
impartial and independent service, and any direction or award we make shouldnt place a 
complainant in a position of betterment.
In this situation, I note that in Mr S testimony to HISL, he initially explained hed found an 
alternative way to get to work and so, a replacement van wasnt immediately required. But I 
note Mr S has provided additional testimony explaining this since.
And I dont doubt Mr S testimony that he was unable to transport tools and so, I do think it 
follows that this wouldve made it more difficult for him to attend jobs and complete his work 
as required. But for me to consider his actual loss of earnings, Id need to see evidence of 
jobs he was due to attend, that he was unable to because of not having a van. And what 
these jobs wouldve been worth. And Mr S has been unable to evidence this.
In absence of this information, I could consider evidence that shows what Mr S earned in the 
previous year of a similar time but again, Mr S hasnt provided these as he doesnt think the 
previous year is representative, due to the impact of COVID-19 on his business.
So, all I have is Mr S explaining what he charges as a day rate, plus overall invoices from 
work completed before the incident, and after receiving a replacement van. While they do 
show Mr S worked, and what he earnt, they dont provide a breakdown to show they 
supported Mr S overall daily rate he says he charges.
And even if they did, I still have no evidence to show for definite that Mr S had work lined up 
to ensure he worked every day he was without the van, at the day rate he says he charges 
or what his lost profit is. So, because of this, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say HISL should pay Mr S his loss of earnings, calculated at 26 days of £200 a day.
Instead, in line with our services approach, I think HISL should pay Mr S for loss of use, as 
he didnt have his van or a replacement as Id expect. And standard industry guidelines set 
this as £20 a day and so, this equates to a total of £520.
And on top of this, I think HISL should compensate Mr S for the significant inconvenience 
hes been caused by their failures and in particular, his loss of opportunity to work as hed 
usually do with a suitable van.
While I have no evidence to show it for definite, I think its reasonable for me to assume that 
had Mr S been contacted for a job, he wouldnt have been able to accept this during the time 
he was without a van. And from one invoice I have seen, it does suggest that he was only 
paid up until 27 February 2022, suggesting that job was cut short due to not having a 
replacement van available to him.
So, considering the above, I think HISL should pay Mr S an additional £500 for this 
inconvenience, and this loss of opportunity, taking the total payment to £1,020 overall.
I understand this is unlikely to be the outcome Mr S was hoping for. And, that it differs from 
what our investigator originally recommended. But I hope this decision sets out the 
parameters our service must work within, around our evidence-based approach.
Responses
HISL didnt respond directly to the provisional decision. But they did confirm that, had Mr S 
claimed through his own policy rather than through E, a different garage wouldve been used 
to complete the repairs. And this garage wouldve attempted to provide Mr S with a hire van 
directly, before outsourcing a van from the same company E ultimately used.
Mr S confirmed his understanding of the provisional decision. But he provided additional 
evidence he felt showed he had work lined up for the period he was without a hire van, and 
how this then impacted him financially. So, Mr S requested that this additional evidence be 
considered before my final decision is made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change my initial conclusions. I think the additional 
information provided by HISL confirming a different garage wouldve been used had Mr S 
claimed through his own policy, and that this garage wouldve attempt to supply a hire van 
directly, supports the conclusions I reached within my provisional decision.
And while I appreciate Mr S taking the time for provide further evidence that he feels 
supports his loss of earnings, I dont think this information is enough for me to know for 
certain exactly what Mr S earnings would have definitely been over the time he was without 
a hire van.
Much of the additional evidence he supplied showcase conversations which detail the work 
he intended to do, but not when and crucially, how much this would earn. And although there 
is an email from a business that I note stated they had offered Mr S work which hed needed 
to turn down, this work was for some time after the delay period Im looking to compensate 
Mr S for. I recognise the email states Mr S turned down the offer of work to catch up with jobs that were delayed by his lack of a hire van, but ultimately I think it was Mr S own 
decision to turn down this offer of work in order to complete other jobs.
So, my decision remains that same that HISL should make a payment to Mr S for loss of 
use, and compensation for the inconvenience he was caused. 
Putting things right
My decision remains unchanged that HISL should compensate Mr S for the 26 days he was 
without a hire van unfairly. This compromises of a loss of use payment calculated at £20 a 
day, in line with industry guidelines and our services approach, totalling £520 as well as an 
additional £500 payment to recognise the inconvenience and emotional distress Mr S had 
been caused. So, I am directing HISL to pay Mr S a total of £1,020.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr S complaint about Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mr S a total of £1,020 to recognise his loss of use of a van, and the impact and 
inconvenience this had on him overall.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman