DRN-3417750
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund the money he 
paid someone for his car to be repaired.
What happened
What Mr A says
Mr A says that his car broke down outside his house during lockdown. Lots of garages were 
closed and his usual mechanic was unable to help. Through a friend, he came into contact 
with a freelance mechanic who came to inspect his car and advised Mr A what needed to be 
done to fix it. The mechanic said hed need to order parts and Mr A and the mechanic 
agreed a price of just under £200. A few days later the mechanic arrived with parts and 
completed some work. The mechanic then told Mr A that further parts and labour were 
needed which would cost a further £380. Mr A was desperate to get his car back on the road 
so agreed to go ahead and paid the additional amount by bank transfer. After this Mr A didnt 
hear anything from the mechanic. He says that he managed to speak to him a few weeks 
later and asked that the mechanic either complete the job or refund his money, but the 
mechanic refused and after that he blocked Mr As calls.
Mr A has explained that the mechanic doesnt have an office and he lost touch with him. He 
called Nationwide to say he has been scammed and is unhappy with Nationwides response 
and with the service he was provided with.
What Nationwide say
Nationwide say this is a civil dispute as Mr A received a partial service from the mechanic 
and that Mr A was provided with correct information when he called.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr As complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. In 
summary, she wasnt satisfied the mechanic intended to defraud Mr A and noted that he had 
received a partial service he was unhappy with. 
Mr A didnt agree with what the investigator said so his complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Should Nationwide have refunded Mr A under the CRM Code?
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which Nationwide
has signed up to and was in force at the time Mr A made the payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer
who is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the
circumstances of the payments Mr A made and, if so, whether Nationwide ought to
reimburse him under the provisions of the Code. The Practitioner Guide associated with the 
Code describes an APP scam as follows:
(a) APP Scam 
Authorised Push Payment scam, that is, a transfer of funds executed across Faster 
Payments, CHAPS or an internal book transfer, authorised by a Customer in accordance 
with regulation 67 of the PSRs, where 
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead deceived into 
transferring the funds to a different person; or 
(ii) The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were legitimate 
purposes but which were in fact fraudulent. 
The Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to civil disputes. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for
goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some
way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payments Mr A made formed part of a civil
dispute and, as such, are not covered by the Code. Mr A disagrees.
For the CRM Code to apply to Mr As case I need to be satisfied that its more likely than not 
that the mechanic deceived Mr A into making payments for a service he had no intention of 
performing with the aim of making a financial gain. Whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, Im 
not satisfied this was the case. 
Ive listened to the calls Mr A made to Nationwide when he said he wished to raise a dispute 
about the payments. Mr A said that the mechanic had completed some work on the car, but 
he felt this had made it worse. This indicates to me that the mechanic intended to complete 
the agreed work. Overall, I dont consider there is sufficient evidence to reasonably conclude 
that the mechanic tricked Mr A into making payments for fraudulent purposes.  
I appreciate Mr A is unhappy with the standard of the initial work completed and that he says 
the mechanic didnt complete the further work he said was necessary. I consider these 
circumstances fit the example of a civil dispute set out in the CRM Code in that the services 
are defective in some way or Mr A is otherwise dissatisfied with them.  
The receiving bank has also confirmed that the account the funds were paid into was 
running normally and there were no other fraud reports at the time.  
I understand why Mr A is unhappy, and that there are financial implications, but I dont think 
Nationwide treated Mr A unfairly when it said the payments he made were not covered by 
the CRM Code. And Im not persuaded that Nationwide should have done anything to 
prevent the payments from being made, as they were not for significant amounts and didnt 
stand out as being unusual or out of character. Having listened to Mr As call to Nationwide to report his loss, I also dont consider 
Nationwide provided a poor service. I understand Mr A was unhappy with what he was told, 
but  as Ive said above  I consider Nationwide acted reasonably in concluding this is a civil 
dispute between Mr A and the mechanic. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman