DRN-4120017
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
(Novuna) declined him for credit, that he wasnt aware he was applying for. 
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional
decision. I said:
Mr O enquired about purchasing a conservatory roof from a company I shall call K. On 8 
November 2021, a sales agent of Ks attended Mr Os home to discuss options with him. Mr 
O says he wanted to go ahead with the purchase and pay cash. However, Mr O says he was 
given the option of paying a deposit, then a further amount after a survey and finally the 
remaining balance after the work was completed.  
Mr O says this appealed to him and so he wanted to take that option. Mr O says he wasnt 
ever told this was a form of finance and he believed it would be a cash on completion type 
repayment. However, the sales agent processed a 120-month finance agreement with 
Novuna. The agreement also had a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) period of nine months. 
This agreement was subsequently declined by Novuna. Unhappy that finance had been 
applied for without his knowledge, Mr O contacted Novuna to request further information. An 
email was sent by Novuna to confirm its reasoning for why the application was declined. 
However, Mr O says this was never received. 
On 5 January 2022, Mr O contacted Novuna again and a complaint was raised. Novuna 
initially sent Mr O a response saying the matter had been resolved which was incorrect. On 
18 January 2022, Novuna confirmed this had been sent in error and its investigations were 
ongoing. A further update was sent by Novuna on 31 January 2022, before it issued its final 
response on 8 February 2022.
In the final response, Novuna explained the decision to decline the application was an 
automatic one. Novuna went on to say the application didnt meet its lending criteria based 
on Mr Os age and the type of finance he was applying for. It was confirmed that no record of 
the declined decision would be recorded onto any credit files, but the decision to decline was 
a correct policy one. Regarding Mr Os complaint point that he never applied for credit in the 
first place, Novuna said it had spoken to K and K said it had discussed finance details and 
Mr Os choice of funding form showed his intention was to apply for finance. 
Lastly, Novuna apologised for the incorrect letter that was sent informing the matter had 
been resolved. It also said there had been an error regarding the incorrect email address 
and therefore it agreed it hadnt acted correctly regarding the service it had provided. 
However, it maintained that the correct process had been followed regarding the application 
for finance and the decision to decline the application. 
Unhappy with this Mr O contacted our service. One of our investigators initially considered 
the complaint and said she didnt feel the evidence showed Mr O was ever intending to take 
out finance. Therefore, Novuna should remove the searches regarding the application from 
Mr Os credit file. Novuna response to confirm there were no such searches as the 
application was declined due to a policy decision.   
After some confusion, it was confirmed that Mr O also didnt agree. He said he was unhappy 
that he would have to explain he had been declined credit previously. In addition, Mr O said 
that Novuna didnt email him and then didnt provide evidence to show the email had been 
sent to the wrong email address as it claimed. Lastly Mr O was unhappy that Novuna had 
confirmed his bank account had been checked and there were insufficient funds to cover the 
transaction. 
The complaint was then considered by a second investigator. The second investigator 
concluded that Novuna hadnt done anything wrong in declining Mr Os application. The 
investigator also confirmed there was nothing in Novunas system notes to suggest an email 
had been sent to an incorrect address. The investigator said Novuna had sent an email 
confirming the matter was resolved in error, but that aside Mr O had been kept adequately 
informed of the progress on his complaint. The investigator confirmed that Novuna hadnt 
checked Mr Os bank account balance as this doesnt fall part of credit checks it carries out. 
Lastly, the investigator confirmed there hadnt been any impact on Mr Os credit file as 
Novuna never referred to the credit references agencies during the application process.  
Mr O strongly disagreed with what the second investigator has said. Mr O maintained that he 
never applied for credit and that Novuna had said on more than one occasion his bank 
account had been checked. The investigator replied and explained that given the evidence 
he was satisfied Mr O had discussed finance with K and wanted to proceed. The investigator 
also repeated that he couldnt see an email being sent to the wrong address and that there 
was no evidence Novuna had, or said it had, checked Mr Os bank account as part of the 
application. 
Mr O still disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr O has maintained that his intention was never to apply for finance to purchase the 
conservatory roof. He has said he had sufficient cash available, but the option to pay a 
deposit then further instalments after the survey and work completion appealed. As I wasnt 
present during the conversation between Mr O and K, its impossible for me to be 100% 
certain of what was discussed. Ive therefore looked at the other evidence available to 
decide what I think was most likely to have happened. 
Having reviewed the choice of funding form Im satisfied this shows Mr O wanted to repay 
via a deposit and two further payments, not via finance provided by Hitachi (Novuna). There 
isnt anything to evidence that Mr O wanted to proceed with a 120-month loan application 
that was subsequently processed. The option selected on the form is cash/self funded, 
which provides the repayment terms that Mr O has maintained he wanted to take out. 
It appears the cash/self funded option is separate from Novuna and the form states: 
If I have selected cash/self funded option then I understand I will receive these payment 
terms separately. However, if I have selected a finance plan then I understand that a loan 
application will be completed and my details passed to the lender for approval.
This leads me to believe that the case/self funded option was what Mr O wanted and that 
doesnt appear to be a finance plan. Given this Im not persuaded that an application for 
finance shouldve ever been made for Mr O. To fairly resolve this complaint point, I think 
Novuna should remove all trace of the application from Mr Os credit file, so it would be like it never took place. However, Novuna has already confirmed it didnt record anything to the 
credit reference agencies. So, it doesnt need to take any further action in this regard.  
Given this Ive not gone on to consider Novunas reasons for declining the application and its 
process in relation to that. This is because Im satisfied the finance application shouldnt 
have been carried out. I appreciate Mr O has said that he would still have to make other 
lenders aware he was declined should he apply for credit on the future. I cant comment on 
hypothetical situations, but the application wouldnt be recorded on his credit file or be 
viewable by prospective future lenders. 
I understand that Mr O has said he didnt receive an email and Novuna confirmed it was 
initially sent to an incorrect email address. Mr O isnt persuaded by this, because he asked 
for the incorrect email address that was used and says he never received a reply. Novuna 
has confirmed in its communication with our service that the supplier recorded the email 
address incorrectly at the point of sale. Instead of hotmail.com, homtail.com was input. This 
unfortunately caused a delay when Novuna responded to Mr Os request for further info on 
the application. 
There was also a further issue when Novuna incorrectly sent a communication advising the 
matter had been resolved. While I acknowledge the inconvenience this likely caused Mr O, I 
can see that this was rectified quickly by Novuna, and it kept him updated afterwards. 
Mr O has said that he was told by Novuna that it has checked his bank account. There isnt 
any evidence to suggest Novuna did this and its confirmed doing so isnt part of its finance 
application process. I appreciate Mr O has said he was told this had happened. I havent 
seen anything to suggest this was the case. Its possible there has been some confusion in 
the messaging between Novuna and Mr O in relation to this. 
Mr O has also said that Novuna should have called him when the application was declined. I 
dont think it was necessary for Novuna to make a call after declining the application. The 
message was passed to Ks sale assistant, which I believe was sufficient in the 
circumstances. 
I can understand why Mr O found it distressing when he learned a finance application he 
hadnt requested had been processed and declined. In addition, he has been caused 
inconvenience by the error with an incorrect email address and being advised his complaint 
had been resolved and closed when that wasnt the case. For this Novuna should award Mr 
O £50. Im satisfied £50 is fair and reasonable for distress and inconvenience thats been 
caused. 
I invited both parties to respond with new information they wanted me to consider before I
made my final decision.
Both Novuna and Mr O confirmed they were willing to accept the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr O and Novuna have accepted my provisional decision, and neither party has
provided any new information for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, Novuna should do the following: 
Confirm in writing there is no trace of the declined finance application on Mr Os 
credit file Pay Mr O £50 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused
My final decision
I uphold Mr Os complaint and require Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna 
Personal Finance to put things right for Mr O as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman