DRN-2879612
The complaint
Mr C and Ms M complain that Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited hasnt helped them 
manage their interest only mortgage so that theyll be able to repay the capital at the end.  
What happened
Mr C and Ms M have an interest only mortgage with SPML. Theres around ten years left on 
the term.
Concerned to make sure that they would be able to repay the mortgage by the end of the 
term, Mr C and Ms M say they asked SPML to consider switching the mortgage from interest 
only to repayment. But they say it told them that it couldnt consider new lending applications 
and there was nothing it could do.
Mr C and Ms M complained. They said that SPML hadnt treated them fairly and wasnt 
helping them ensure they would be able to repay the mortgage. SPML again told them there 
was nothing it could do.
Our investigator didnt think SPML had acted fairly. He said it should have explored their 
options with them and looked at how it could help them ensure the mortgage was repaid by 
the end of the term. He said it should consider any future applications they make fairly, and 
should pay them £600 compensation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SPML doesnt agree that Mr C and Ms M contacted its administrator to discuss their 
mortgage or ask about switching to repayment. It says it has no record of any contact  
which it would do if they had been in touch.
Ive considered this carefully. I can see there are records of contact between Mr C and Ms M 
and SPMLs administrator around the same time, but no record of discussions about the 
repayment of the capital.
While its worth noting that there is no record in the contact notes, Mr C and Ms M have a 
clear recollection of having discussed these issues with SPMLs administrator. Its possible 
that a call took place which wasnt later recorded  and its also possible that there was a 
discussion about repayment on one of the calls which were recorded, but that part of the 
conversation wasnt noted down.
It's not disputed that had a discussion taken place, Mr C and Ms M would have been told 
what they say they were told. SPML says that doesnt mean a call took place  Mr C and 
Ms M could have discovered its policy from other sources. This doesnt strike me as a 
compelling argument. While its possible Mr C and Ms M researched SPMLs interest only 
borrower policies through third party sources rather than simply call their lender, I think its 
more likely Mr C and Ms M knew SPMLs policy because thats what it told them.
On balance Im persuaded by what Mr C and Ms M say. I think they did discuss their 
concerns about repaying the mortgage with SPML, only to be told there was nothing it could 
do for them. Whether this happened as part of one of the calls that is logged, or on another 
call that isnt, doesnt make a difference. Im satisfied that the conversation happened.
SPML says its a closed book lender, and doesnt offer new lending. It doesnt give advice or 
employ advisers, and has no facility for making changes to mortgages. Its up to Mr C and 
Ms M to make sure their mortgage is repaid in time.
I accept SPML is a closed book lender and doesnt take on new borrowers. But it has an 
obligation to treat its existing customers fairly. That includes assisting existing borrowers, 
where necessary, to ensure interest only mortgages can be repaid where possible.
That doesnt necessarily have to be through formal conversion to repayment terms. But 
SPML acting fairly shouldnt, in my view, have simply turned Mr C and Ms M away without 
taking any responsibility as their lender to help matters.
For example, it could have discussed their situation with them, and reminded them of the 
facility in their mortgage to make lump sum or regular overpayments. Mr C and Ms M say 
they didnt know they could do this  and SPMLs administrator made no mention of it in 
either the earlier calls or its final response to their complaint. It could have calculated how 
much Mr C and Ms M would need to overpay each month to clear their balance by the end of 
the term, and told them that.
SPML is right that it doesnt have to agree to make changes to existing mortgages. But it 
does need to treat its existing customers fairly. In this case, as interest only borrowers, it 
ought to have considered how it could ensure the mortgage was on track to be repaid, and 
helped Mr C and Ms M understand how they could do that. But it simply said it was entirely 
Mr C and Ms Ms responsibility and didnt take any steps itself. I dont think that was fair.
If Mr C and Ms M are able to afford to make overpayments, that might also mean they are 
able to afford to move their mortgage to another lender on repayment terms. As borrowers 
with a closed book lender, they may be able to benefit from the regulators modified 
affordability assessment for new lenders. More information about that, and a list of financial 
advisers who could assist, can be found here: 
https://www.moneyhelper.org.uk/en/homes/buying-a-home/help-for-mortgage-prisoners
Putting things right
Mr C and Ms M now know they can make regular overpayments, after being told by our 
investigator that this was allowed under the terms of their mortgage. If they ask again, 
SPMLs administrator should tell them how much they need to pay to clear the mortgage by 
the end of the term. But theyve now lost time in which they could have done that, and that  
coupled with their concern and worry about their situation and SPMLs administrators failure 
to offer any assistance  caused them substantial worry and upset. I agree that £600 is fair 
compensation for that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited to pay them £600 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 October 2021. 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman