DRN-3850248
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs Ns complaint is about two buy-to-let mortgages they have with Mortgage 
Express (ME). The complaint relating to the first mortgage (mortgage 1) is that ME has 
refused to provide redemption statements when requested and enforced its right to 
consolidate this debt with the mortgage they took out in 2006 (mortgage 2). Mr B and Mrs N 
dont consider that ME is treating them fairly.
In relation to mortgage 2, they are unhappy about MEs assessment of their application as 
they consider that it should have detected that it had been fraudulently manipulated by the 
submitting broker. This, they consider, resulted in ME recklessly lending to them. In 
addition, they are unhappy that they had difficulties obtaining copies of the mortgage 
documentation when they asked for it in 2008 and 2013. Furthermore, Mr B and Mrs N are 
unhappy that a legal settlement ME obtained from the solicitors that acted for both parties 
during the purchase, was not applied to the mortgage when ME received it in 2014. They 
have said that this has caused problems with their own legal action against the solicitors.
Mr B and Mrs N are also unhappy with some administrative matters and that ME didnt 
respond to their letters from 2019 in which they tried to open discussions about finding a way 
forward for the two mortgages.
What happened
What happened Mr B and Mrs N took out mortgage 1 with ME in 2005. Mortgage 2 was 
arranged when they bought another rental property in 2006. Both mortgages were applied 
for through independent mortgage brokers. 
The terms and conditions of the mortgages set out that if a borrower had more than one 
unregulated mortgage with ME, it had the right to stop them paying the mortgages off 
separately, and to insist that they all be paid off at the same time. This enables ME to 
effectively combine (consolidate) the security provided by each of the mortgaged properties 
for the combined mortgage debt. 
The valuation completed before mortgage 2 was advanced confirmed that the valuer was 
aware that significant alterations had recently been completed to the property. It completed 
the valuation on the basis that any necessary statutory permissions were in place. It was 
also stated that If the rent achieved for this type of accommodation were to change, it could 
have a significant effect on the market value we have reported. The market value would also 
be influenced by changes in normal investment criteria, or if the property was to revert to 
owner occupation. It would have been the function of the conveyancing solicitor to ensure 
that the statutory permissions were in place.
ME pursued the conveyancing solicitors in relation to mortgage 2. A confidential settlement 
agreement was reached in 2014, which involved ME receiving a payment in respect to 
mortgage 2. Mr B and Mrs N believe this amount should have been credited to their 
mortgage account at that time. They told us when they referred the complaint, the lack of 
payment was obstructing their own case against the solicitors, forcing the case to trial, rather 
than allowing a settlement. That issue appears to have subsequently been resolved, as they 
confirmed that they received a settlement from the solicitors. They also believed they had 
been overcharged interest since 2014.
Mr B and Mrs N complained to ME in 2014 about their information requests not being 
responded to. It issued a final response letter on 15 May 2014 in which it acknowledged that 
the information requested in 2013 hadnt been provided. It apologised and offered them 
£100 compensation. It also confirmed that a subject access request was being actioned.
In 2019 Mr B and Mrs N wrote to ME twice setting out the situation with mortgage 2 and the 
property it was secured on. They went on to suggest ideas for how the issues could be dealt 
with. ME didnt respond to these letters. Mr B and Mrs N subsequently complained.
ME issued a final response letter on the complaint on 23 July 2019. ME acknowledged that it 
hadnt responded to the letters Mr B and Mrs N sent it earlier that year making proposals for 
dealing with the situation of mortgage 2. It also admitted that it hadnt updated their address, 
which it had now dealt with as a data breach. £300 was offered as compensation for this 
poor service. However, ME didnt agree that it had acted incorrectly in relation to the 
settlement monies it had received from the solicitor. It said that those monies would only be 
allocated to the mortgage if an actual loss was suffered, which to that point it hadnt been. As 
for the way forward with mortgage 2, ME confirmed that it was open to negotiate with Mr B 
and Mrs N to reach a satisfactory conclusion. This might include agreeing a shortfall sale, 
but it would need specifics before any agreement could be reached. In relation to the 
complaint about provision of information, it referred them back to the 2014 final response 
letter.
ME wrote to Mr B and Mrs N in March 2020 following them asking for a redemption 
statement for mortgage 1. It explained that it had a right to consolidate and insist, if they 
wanted to pay off one of their mortgages, that they pay off both. It confirmed the outstanding 
balance on the account and explained that any surplus funds provided at redemption would 
need to be used to reduce the borrowing on any other mortgages that was outstanding. Mr B 
and Mrs N complained later that month that MEs proposal to consolidate the debt owed on 
the two mortgages was unacceptable.
ME responded to the complaint on 21 April 2020. It said that it wouldnt provide a redemption 
statement as that would undermine the enforcement of its right to consolidate, or any 
alternatives it might impose. It said that when Mr B and Mrs N decided to repay the 
mortgage, it would calculate how much would be required to be paid to release the charge. It 
referred Mr B and Mrs N back to its comments in the July 2019 final response letter about 
options for the way forward with the mortgages. 
In January 2021 ME sent Mr B and Mrs N a further letter regarding consolidation and its 
rights under regarding the issue set out under the mortgage terms and conditions.  This 
letter was sent in response to a request for a redemption statement. ME has confirmed that it 
enforced its right to consolidate the two mortgage debts on 13 January 2021.
Mr B and Mrs N referred their complaint to this service. They explained that ME had been 
warned about the extensive alterations before the mortgage was released. Also that the 
property had been owned for a short period by the developer. They said that they thought 
ME should have made further enquiries before agreeing to lend and theyd assumed that it 
would also have done due diligence on the developer they were buying from. 
Following the complaint being referred to this service, ME confirmed that it was willing to 
allocate the funds it received from the settlement agreement in 2014 to mortgage 2 in full 
and final settlement of the complaint. Mr B and Mrs N said they were grateful for the offer, but they considered that the funds 
should have been allocated in August 2014. As such, they wanted the mortgage account 
adjusted as though the money had been paid into the account in August 2014. They said 
that even if ME was willing to back-date the allocation of funds, there would still remain 
issues to be negotiated. These being that even with the allocation of funds, the property 
would still be in negative equity and ME was still refusing permission for them to re-mortgage 
the property on which mortgage 1 was secured. 
Mr B and Mrs N subsequently set out a new proposal for dealing with the mortgage 2 
situation. They would then make further payments to that account and sell the property 
sooner rather than later. Mr B and Mrs N also wanted ME to allow them to repay mortgage 1, 
without any strings attached. This would enable them to continue their rental business in 
such a way as to protect their future plans.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, and concluded that we couldnt consider 
all of it. When Mr B and Mrs N disagreed the complaint was passed to one of my 
ombudsman colleagues to consider the matter of our jurisdiction. She concluded that we 
could consider the following aspects of the complaint:
1. ME was reckless to lend to them and it didnt review their application properly. In 
particular:
(b) Mr B and Mrs N say ME didnt follow up warnings about extensive alterations to one of 
the properties with questions to the conveyancing solicitors and vendor. They say the 
property was overvalued by the surveyor appointed by ME. They now have negative equity.
3. ME fabricated records of correspondence and discussions with them to cover up its 
errors. They said they became aware of this when they received the information theyd 
asked for (in 2014). This part of the complaint could only be considered from 1 June 2013.
4. ME didnt credit the settlement from the conveyancing solicitors to their mortgage account 
in October 2014. This hampered their own claim against the solicitors, and meant additional 
interest was applied to their account.
5. ME was unhelpful and obstructive when they tried to agree a settlement with it for both 
mortgages. They wanted it to agree not to take legal action to enforce the debt on 
mortgage 2, and not to consolidate the debts secured on their two properties. As it had 
declined, they couldnt re-mortgage either property.
6. ME didnt provide good service as it didnt provide a comprehensive reply to their letters of 
28 February 2019 and 24 May 2019. Also, it didnt update their address, resulting in a data 
breach.
7. ME doesnt offer products with competitive interest rates, due to losing its lending licence.
8. ME didnt provide a redemption statement for mortgage 1 in March 2020.
The ombudsman concluded that the following two aspects of the complaint didnt fall within 
our jurisdiction:
1 (a) ME not having noticed the alterations to the application made by the broker and/or 
mortgage packager when it was submitted, resulting in the application being accepted when 
it shouldnt have been.
2 ME not providing information when requested in 2008 and 2013.In April 2022 an agreement was reached between ME, Mr B and Mrs N regarding complaint 
point 4. This involved the payment of the settlement being used to reduce the balance on 
mortgage 2 along with an amount to compensate for the interest paid on that amount of the 
mortgage since 2014. Subsequently Mr B and Mrs N raised a new complaint about ME not 
having complied with the agreement. 
Our investigator went on to consider the merits of all the issues that fell within our 
jurisdiction.  He didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mr B and Mrs N didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They commented on new 
complaint issues they had raised with ME and disagreed that the situation, which caused ME 
to decide to consolidate the amounts owed on the two mortgages, was not as bad as ME 
wanted it to appear. In addition, they said that they accepted that ME was not obligated to 
accept their proposal to deal with the situation, but it should reasonably have formed a basis 
for further negotiation. They said they found ME dismissing their proposal out of hand 
insulting and reprehensible. Mr B and Mrs N stated that there was no doubt in their minds 
that they had been wronged and that the Financial Ombudsman Service had failed to 
persuade them otherwise. Further documentation was provided, including a partial and 
redacted copy of the confidential settlement agreement between ME and the solicitors.  In 
addition, they provided a further copy of what they considered was evidence of ME having 
fabricated evidence, which was from 2008. They asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman.
Our investigator explained to Mr B and Mrs N that we were unable to consider new 
complaint points about issues that had happened since the complaint was referred to us. He 
also confirmed the evidence that had been provided regarding their allegation of fabricated 
evidence was from 2008, and so it was not something we could comment on as it fell outside 
of our jurisdiction. As Mr B and Mrs Ns further comments didnt alter the investigators 
conclusions, the complaint was referred for consideration as they had requested.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 November 2022 setting out my conclusions and reasons 
for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
At each stage of our process we considered our jurisdiction to consider a complaint. I have 
done so and I agree with my ombudsman colleges findings set out in her decision of 
5 November 2021. 
For ease, I will address the points using the numerical references my ombudsman colleague 
used when setting out our jurisdiction. Before I do so, I would confirm that the mortgages 
involved in this complaint are commercial ones. That means that they are not regulated and 
ME is not required to apply the same approach to their administration as it would be 
expected to if mortgages were residential ones. While it still needs to treat the borrowers 
fairly, that doesnt mean it would be expected to disadvantage itself in order to facilitate the 
borrowers plans and preferences. 
1. ME was reckless to lend to them and it didnt follow up warnings about extensive 
alterations to one of the properties with questions to the conveyancing solicitors and vendor. 
Lenders are not property experts and so when it comes to determining whether a property is 
suitable security for a mortgage, it will hire in an independent expert. As long as that expert 
is appropriately qualified, the lender is entitled to rely on its findings when making a decision 
to lend and it is not responsible for the conclusions of the expert.
It is clear that the expert in this case  the valuer - was aware of the alterations made to the 
property when it inspected the property and that these changes were taken into account when the property was valued. How it became aware of this information is unclear, but it 
would most likely have been from ME when the valuation was commissioned. The valuer 
gave a value for the property assuming that the relevant permissions were in place.
It would not have been for the valuer to investigate whether the relevant permissions had 
been obtained. That was a job for the solicitor acting on behalf of the parties. I havent seen 
details of the claims made by ME or Mr B and Mrs N against the solicitor acting in this case, 
but from what has been said, it appears that it was at this stage of the process that things 
either werent done at all, or werent done properly. The checks that needed to be completed 
would have been done on behalf of both ME and Mr B and Mrs N, so ME cant be 
considered entirely responsible for the consequences if the solicitors didnt complete the 
checks necessary. 
That said, both ME and Mr B and Mrs N took legal action against the solicitors and monies 
were paid in respect to both actions. Mr B and Mrs N received the money from their action 
directly. In addition, a legal agreement outside of this complaint has been reached between 
the parties in relation to the funds ME received from the solicitors in 2014. As such, I dont 
consider that I can require ME to do anything further in relation to this complaint point.
3. ME fabricated records of correspondence and discussions with them after 1 June 2013 to 
cover up its errors. 
Mr B and Mrs N have confirmed that the fabrication they have referred to occurred in 2008. 
As this is before the point in time we can consider this aspect of the complaint, I consider 
this complaint point is moot and I will not comment further.
4. ME didnt credit a legal settlement from the conveyancing solicitors to their mortgage 
account in October 2014. 
When the complaint was referred to us, neither party provided a copy of the documentation 
regarding the claim ME made to the solicitors or the settlement agreement that was reached. 
This was understandable as Mr B and Mrs N shouldnt have had a copy of the 
documentation and ME was only allowed to release it with permission of the other party to 
the agreement. Since then Mr B and Mrs N appear to have obtained part of the 
documentation relating to the matter, but not all of it, so it doesnt provide a full picture of the 
situation. As such, I am not persuaded I am able to conclude when the money paid in 
respect to mortgage 2 should have been paid to the mortgage account.
However, that consideration is irrelevant at this point as an agreement was made between 
the legal representatives of ME and Mr B and Mrs N. This is a material change from the 
point the complaint was referred to us, and we were not involved in the agreement nor have 
we been provided with a copy of the agreement. As such, even if I were provided with all the 
evidence I would need to reach a conclusions on this aspect of the complaint as it was 
presented when the complaint was originally referred to us, it would not now be appropriate 
for me to do so. 
6. ME didnt provide good service. It didnt provide a comprehensive reply to their letters of 
28 February and 24 May 2019. And it didnt update their address, resulting in a data breach.
5. ME was unhelpful and obstructive when they tried to agree a settlement with it. They 
wanted it to agree not to take legal action to enforce the debt, and not to consolidate the 
debt secured on their two properties. As it declined, they couldnt re-mortgage either 
property.
8. ME didnt provide a redemption statement in March 2020.I will deal with these three parts of the complaint together as they are linked.  
ME accepted that it didnt respond to Mr B and Mrs Ns letters when it should. It has also 
acknowledged that it should have changed their address after the February 2019 letter, and 
not doing so, resulted in a data breach. I am satisfied that the offer of £300 ME made in this 
respect was appropriate in the circumstances. 
If Mr B and Mrs N are not satisfied with ME acknowledging and reporting the data breach, 
the appropriate body for them to refer their concerns to would be the Information 
Commissioners Office. Our investigator can provide contact details if they want them.
As ME has acknowledged it didnt respond to the 2019 letters, in which Mr B and Mrs N put 
forward suggestions for resolving the problem with mortgage 2. It is clear that this meant that 
discussions about the situation didnt start when they could have. However, I am not 
persuaded that even if they had, the situation would have been any different from what it 
was. 
As I have said above, these were commercial mortgages and ME was not required to enter 
into any agreement to benefit Mr B and Mrs N that would disadvantage it. They wanted to 
take certain actions that would protect their rental business, which is understandable. 
However, those proposals would have led to ME having less security than the amount that 
was owed to it, which would significantly increase the risk Mr B and Mrs Ns borrowing would 
represent. Put quite simply, ME was also entitled to protect its business when considering 
whether to accept proposals from its customers. While the proposals included subsequent 
payments being made to reduce that risk, in the event Mr B and Mrs N had then not fulfilled 
that part of the proposals for any reason, ME couldnt have done anything about them not 
doing so. 
Furthermore, when Mr B and Mrs N asked for a redemption statement for mortgage 1, I dont 
consider that ME acted inappropriately. I say this as its position at the time was that it was 
not willing to allow mortgage 1 to be repaid given the circumstances of mortgage 2. Had a 
redemption statement been issue it would have potentially misled them about the situation 
and given the impression that ME was willing to allow mortgage 1 to be repaid at that time, 
which it was not.
I know that Mr B and Mrs N wont agree with me, but I cant find that ME acted 
inappropriately when it didnt accept the proposals they made and, in its decision to 
consolidate the two mortgages. That said, ME did confirm in 2019 that it would consider a 
shortfall sale and potentially other options, but Mr B and Mrs N would need to provide it with 
full details of the potential sale/alternatives. I can only find that this was a reasonable 
response. 
7. Doesnt offer products with competitive interest rates, due to losing its lending licence.
The mortgage offers from 2005 and 2006 confirms that mortgage 1 was taken on a 
three-year fixed interest rate of 5.14% and mortgage 2 was taken on a discounted rate of 
1.36% below standard variable rate (SVR). Once these rates ended, the mortgages would 
revert to MEs SVR. There isnt anything specified in the mortgage offers that say that Mr B 
and Mrs N would be entitled to another interest rate product once the initial ones expired. 
From what I can see, the mortgages have run in line with the terms and conditions. Due to 
MEs collapse and nationalisation, it is now a closed book lender unable to offer new interest 
rates to any of its customers, and there is no obligation for it to do so. So all its other 
customers were in the same position as Mr B and Mrs N. I appreciate that Mr B and Mrs N feel they could have paid less if they had the option of 
taking out a product. However, I am satisfied that MEs SVR has been comparable to the 
SVR and reversion rates that are charged by other similar lenders. I do appreciate and 
understand that they have been in a difficult situation and they would have preferred their 
mortgage payments to be lower, but I cant find that ME has treated them unfairly because of 
the rate they have been asked to pay.
Mr B and Mrs N didnt accept my conclusions. They reiterated their comments about the 
events that occurred, what ME had said at various points and our jurisdiction. In particular, 
they said that they objected strongly to ME having refused to provide a redemption 
statement and deciding to consolidate the two mortgage debts. In relation to the 
compensation payment, Mr B and Mrs N said that had ME paid the money from the solicitors 
to their mortgage account in 2014, that amount would have been appropriate at the time. 
However, they requested an inflationary uplift to the amount for settlement in 2022.
ME accepted my provisional decision and confirmed it had nothing to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided any new evidence or comment, and as such I see no reason to 
change my conclusions.
My final decision
My decision is that the offer ME made in respect to the poor service it provided Mr B and 
Mrs N in 2019 is fair in all the circumstances. As such, I require Mortgage Express to pay 
Mr B and Mrs N £300 in full and final settlement of the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B and Mrs N 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman