DRN-1215098
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has turned down a claim he made on 
his buildings insurance policy for impact damage.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr G made a claim for damage to the left-hand side of his front wall. He 
thought itd been caused by impact damage from a vehicle, although he wasnt sure when 
the collision had happened. 
Ageas asked one of its surveyors to inspect the wall. Mr G had made a successful claim for 
damage to the right-hand side of the wall a few months before. But Ageas hadnt covered 
damage to the left-hand side of the wall. It said the damage was pre-existing and down to 
age, which wasnt covered by the policy. So the same surveyor whod dealt with the previous 
claim was asked to look into this one. Thats so they could check for signs of new damage to 
the wall and look into what had caused it.
The surveyor sent a report to Ageas. Based on the report, Ageas turned down the claim. It 
didnt think there was enough evidence to show the damage was due to impact. It thought 
the damage was down to a worsening of the wear and tear that had been noticed a few 
months before. 
Mr G wasnt happy with Ageas decision and asked us to look into his complaint. He said the 
wall is dangerous.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the report 
and the photos hed seen were enough to show the damage was down to a collision. He 
didnt think there was enough evidence to say the claim was covered by any section of the 
policy.
Mr G disagreed with our investigator. He said the claim could only have been caused by an 
outside agent. He said the wall was over 80 years old and hed carried out maintenance 
work to it over the years. So he couldnt see any reason why it would move. He suggested 
that whatever had caused the cracks had weakened the wall and it wouldnt take much to 
move it.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, I think it was fair for Ageas to turn down 
his claim. Ill explain why.
Insurers set out what they do and dont want to cover in their policy terms. For a claim to be 
paid, it needs to be because of something thats covered by the policy  which we generally 
call an insured event. In this case, Mr Gs claimed for damage caused by a collision. Impact 
damage caused by a collision by road or rail vehicles is covered by the terms of the policy. 
But for the claim to be paid, Ageas needs to be satisfied that the wall damage Mr Gs 
claimed for was caused by a collision.
Its generally for a policyholder to show a claim has been caused by an insured event. But 
insurers generally investigate this on a policyholders behalf. Thats whats happened here. 
Ageas asked its surveyor to investigate the likely cause of the damage. Mr G had claimed for 
the same section of wall damage a few months before he made this claim. So I think it was 
sensible for the same surveyor to go and look at the wall, because theyd had the chance to 
look at it previously and would be able to see any new damage.
Mr G couldnt point to a specific incident when the damage mightve happened. But he said it 
had been during the two weeks before. He told the surveyor his daughter had noticed the 
damage. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr Gs told us about how hes looked after the wall. And 
hes suggested how he thought the damage couldve happened. But he cant be sure and 
hes told us he cant speak to the other party to find out. 
So Ive turned to look at what the surveyor found. The report said that the surveyor couldnt 
be sure the wall had been hit again and there were no fresh markings on the wall. The 
surveyor also told Ageas that due to freezing and general weather conditions, the wall had 
moved on its own. So it doesnt seem the surveyor thought there was enough evidence to 
show the damage was down to collision.
Ive also carefully considered the photos of the wall the surveyor took, both at the time of the 
first claim and this one, together with the report. Based on this evidence, I dont think theres 
enough for me to fairly find that the wall was damaged by impact caused by a collision. This 
is the only expert evidence I have and Mr G hasnt sent me any independent evidence to 
suggest otherwise. And Mr Gs said that he thought whatever had caused the cracks had 
weakened the wall and it wouldnt take much to move it. So it seems likely that due to the 
existing damage, weather conditions have led to the wall moving and further damage being 
sustained.
Overall,  I think it was fair for Ageas to turn down Mr Gs claim. And Mr G doesnt have 
accidental buildings damage cover, so Ageas cant deal with his claim under this section of 
the policy. While I sympathise with Mr Gs position, I think Ageas has treated him fairly.
Mr Gs told us that Ageas hasnt renewed his policy. As far as Im aware, Mr G hasnt 
complained about this to Ageas. Hed need to complain to Ageas and give it a chance to 
look into this issue before we can potentially help with it.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman