DRN-3714633
The complaint
Mr K complains that Forex Capital Markets Limited trading as FXCM terminated his account 
which caused him to lose money.
What happened
Mr K had a trading account with FXCM. In January 2022 Mr Ks open positions were closed 
and his account was terminated. Mr K complained. FXCM explained it had given him notice 
on 25 November 2021 and that the closure of the account was in line with the agreement. It 
explained it no longer provided services to the country Mr K resided in and therefore it 
couldnt maintain his account any longer.
Mr K complained that this was discriminatory. Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks 
complaint. He explained that FXCM had made a commercial decision some years before to 
no longer offer services to certain countries. Mr K resided in one of those countries but 
FXCM allowed existing accounts to run. It then made the decision to terminate all accounts 
belonging to people residing in those countries and gave sufficient notice to do so. Our 
Investigator said it was up to a business to decide where it operates and offers its services 
and there wasnt evidence of this action being discriminatory against Mr K.
Mr K asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint for the same reasons as the Investigator.
The agreement Mr K had with FXCM says under clause 31 that FXCM can terminate the 
agreement by giving 30 calendar days notice. It also says that at the end of the notice 
period any open positions will be closed.
Ive seen evidence to show that FXCM emailed Mr K to his current email address on 25 
November 2021. This email said:
As a resident of a country where Forex Capital Markets Limited does not provide services, 
we are unable to maintain your account.
The email goes on to explain that Mr K had until 5 January 2022 to manage his open 
positions at which point they will be closed. So, Im satisfied FXCM gave its required notice 
to Mr K that it was terminating his account, explained why this was the case and that it was 
entitled to do so under the terms of the agreement.
Mr K is particularly unhappy that this happened because of the country in which he resides. 
However, FXCM has provided information to show that it made a commercial decision in 
2016 to stop offering services to the country Mr K lives in, and others. This action and 
termination was part of that wider decision. FXCM is entitled to decide where it offers its 
services, so I dont think its acted unfairly here.
I understand Mr K is unhappy that FXCM didnt tell him in 2016 that this could happen, but I 
dont think it was decided at that point to terminate existing accounts. However, Im satisfied 
that FXCM gave Mr K the notice it was required to under its agreement it had with him. Ive 
also thought about whether the 30 days notice period was reasonable. But even if FXCM 
had given Mr K double this time to close his positions I dont think it would have made a 
difference. Evidence FXCM provided shows Mr K didnt open the emails he received from 
FXCM for some time  and I can see that emails from 1 October 2021 (almost 60 days 
before his notice email was sent) werent opened until January 2022. So even if FXCM gave 
Mr K additional notice that it was terminating his account, I dont think hed have been in a 
different position.
Im also satisfied FXCM has treated all accounts in specific countries the same here, so I 
dont consider Mr K has been discriminated against  as this was due to FXCM no longer 
offering services to those countries not because of Mr Ks nationality or other protected 
characteristic. It was solely to do with him residing in a country which FXCM no longer 
provides services to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman