DRN-2688867
The complaint
Mr G complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited sent him the wrong 
form to complete when he wanted to transfer shares into his account. This led to a delay in 
the transfer being completed during which time the share price fell. He wants Hargreaves 
Lansdown to compensate him for the loss in the value of the shares.
What happened
Mr G arranged to transfer one of his shareholdings into his Hargreaves Lansdown account. 
He wasnt sure if his holding was held in certificated form or in a nominee account. So 
Hargreaves Lansdown sent him a letter and forms on 21 February 2020 explaining what he 
needed to do in either case. 
Mr G held a certificate for the shares, and he phoned Hargreaves Lansdown to check some 
details on how to complete the forms. He completed a Fund and Share Transfer form and a 
form E. But he should have completed a Fund and Share Transfer form and a CREST 
Transfer form (CTF). Mr G said he wasnt sent a CTF.
On 26 February, Hargreaves Lansdown sent Mr G a CTF to complete and it received this 
back on 8 March. The transfer was completed, and the shares were available to sell from 
11 March. The letter dated 26 February wrongly referred to a different shareholding  
Hargreaves Lansdown apologised for its error and paid Mr G £50.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought it most 
likely that Mr G received both forms but completed the wrong one. She didnt think there had 
been any delay once Hargreaves Lansdown received the correct form.
Mr G didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
Hargreaves Lansdown had admitted sending him the wrong form. The E form that he 
completed refers to CREST at the top, so he didnt realise this wasnt the CTF.
He sent back the CTF on 28 February, but the shares werent available to sell until more 
than a week later.
He never received the £50 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hargreaves Lansdowns letter dated 21 February 2020 detailed what forms Mr G needed to 
complete if his shares were held in a nominee account, or if they were certificated. In both 
cases he needed to complete a Fund and Share Transfer form. For a certificated holding he 
needed to complete a CREST transfer form and for a nominee holding he needed to 
complete a Form E. 
Unfortunately, although his shares were certificated, Mr G completed a form E. He says this 
is because a CTF wasnt enclosed with the letter. And I can see that, in his communications 
with Hargreaves Lansdown, it accepted that this may have been the case. Hargreaves 
Lansdown made a mistake in not sending him all of the forms. But I dont think it needs to do 
anything more to compensate Mr G for that mistake. I say that because:
Mr G wants Hargreaves Lansdown to compensate him for the loss in the value of his 
shares. But I can see that Mr G hasnt sold his shares. So whilst he may feel that on 
paper hes made a loss, I dont find hes made an actual financial loss for which he 
should be compensated.
And Im not persuaded that Hargreaves Lansdown was made of any particular 
circumstances that meant the shares needed to be transferred urgently.
I think it was reasonably clear that there should have been three forms enclosed with the 
21 February letter. And, whilst I accept what Mr G says about the Form E also making 
reference to CREST, I think it was clear that there was a different form that Mr G needed 
to complete.
When Hargreaves Lansdown received the wrong form completed by Mr G, it promptly 
sent him the correct form (the CTF). Mr G says he returned this on 28 February. But 
Hargreaves Lansdown says it didnt receive it until 8 March. I havent seen evidence to 
persuade me that Hargreaves Lansdown received the form any earlier than 8 March. 
And, as the transfer was completed by 11 March, I dont find there was any undue delay.
HL paid Mr G £50 to apologise that its letter dated 26 February referred to the wrong 
shareholdings. I consider this to be fair and reasonable. Im satisfied that the payment 
was applied to his Hargreaves Lansdown account on 25 March 2020.
Mr G says he is concerned there may have been a breach of GDPR (General Data 
Protection Regulation) and that his details have been mixed up with someone elses. 
Hargreaves Lansdown says it simply referred to the wrong shareholding by mistake. Its 
not my role to decide if a business has breached data protection laws. This is for the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Mr G is free to contact the ICO, should he 
wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman