DRN-3164234
The complaint
Mr V complains about the delays he experienced whilst trying to close an income bond he
held with National Savings and Investments (NS&I).  
What happened
Mr V held an income bond with NS&I. In November 2020 he tried to close it and withdraw his
money. He says he couldnt log in to NS&Is website and he couldnt get through on the
phone, so he wrote a letter dated 18 November 2020.
NS&I say Mr Vs November 2020 letter asked it to transfer his money to an account it wasnt
familiar with so it needed him to complete a form for security reasons. It sent the form on
1 December 2020 and received it back on 9 December 2020.
Having not heard anything Mr V complained to NS&I in a letter dated 2 January 2021, and
again in a letter dated 13 January 2021. Mr Vs income bond was closed, and the money
transferred, on 12 January 2021.
NS&I responded to Mr Vs complaint in February 2021. It said, in summary, that it was
correct to undertake security checks and the delays were the result of operational challenges
brought about by the pandemic.
Mr V didnt think NS&I had treated him fairly. He thought NS&I taking two months to transfer
his money from an instant access product was unacceptable and felt NS&I should have
adapted to the pandemic given these matters arose some 10 months into it. Mr V asked our
service for an independent review.
The investigator was sympathetic to the inconvenience and frustration Mr V had been
caused. But she thought it was reasonable for NS&I to undertake security checks and she
was persuaded the delays were the result of the pandemic.
NS&I didnt challenge the investigators opinion. Mr V did. He remained of the opinion NS&Is
delay was unacceptable and questioned why it was promoting products it couldnt provide
adequate customer service for. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision, in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Vs income bond could be closed without notice, meaning he ought to have been 
able to access his money almost straightaway. And he ought to have been able to do 
this quickly and easily either through NS&Is website or over the phone.
Mr V says he tried both without success, which is why he wrote a letter. I accept this 
was the case. I say this because I find his testimony credible and his letter of 18 
November 2020 specifically referred to the issues he was having. Im satisfied NS&I 
let Mr V down here and this led to what followed.
When NS&I received Mr Vs letter it noted the high value of the withdrawal request 
and that hed asked for his money to be paid into an account other than the one 
associated with his income bond. In these circumstances it was reasonable for NS&I 
to want to review matters and ultimately to take steps to ensure the withdrawal 
request was genuine.
But I think NS&I ought to have called Mr V as it was already on notice hed attempted 
to provide his instruction online and by phone. Sending a form in the post for Mr V to 
complete and return introduced further inconvenience for Mr V and inevitably led to a 
delay which could have been avoided.
NS&I received the form back on 9 December 2020 but didnt action Mr Vs request 
until 12 January 2021. I accept NS&I had operational challenges. But in my view that 
was an unreasonable amount of time given when this matter happened and the 
nature of the request. The delay led to further uncertainty, frustration and 
inconvenience to Mr V.
Mr V says the delay in accessing his money led to him losing out as he couldnt use it 
to generate a return. Im not persuaded this matter has caused him a material loss 
though. I say this because he had opened his income bond only a couple of months 
earlier which suggests there was something about it he found appealing. Im also 
mindful interest rates were generally low during this time. Im not intending to require 
NS&I to make a payment to Mr V for his alleged financial loss.
I do, however, intend to require NS&I to pay Mr V £150 compensation. For the 
reasons set out above Im satisfied NS&I caused Mr V unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience and in my view £150 compensation fairly reflects the impact this 
matter had on him.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require National Savings and Investments to 
pay Mr V £150 compensation.
NS&I accepted my provisional decision. Mr V accepted £150 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience hed been caused. But he felt further compensation should be due for not 
having access to his money for two months. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V has said he doesnt invest his money long term in low interest instant access accounts. 
Instead, he uses them as holding accounts pending investment opportunities, which he says 
materialised in November 2020. He further says he doesnt invest unless there is the 
potential for a healthy return. 
I accept what Mr V has said. But to fairly make an award for a financial loss I must be 
satisfied it exists and be able to quantify it. In this case, I havent been presented with 
enough evidence to do so. I know Mr V will be disappointed but for this reason Im not 
departing from my provisional decision.   
Putting things right
National Savings and Investments should pay Mr V £150 compensation.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require National Savings and Investments to pay Mr V £150 
compensation.     
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr v to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman