DRN-2920811
The complaint
Mrs D complains that a car supplied to her by Arval UK Limited (Arval) under a Consumer 
Hire Agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality or fit for purpose, contrary to the requirements 
of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). 
What happened
In August 2018, Mrs D entered into a Consumer Hire Agreement with Arval in respect of a 
new car. The agreement was to run for 36 months. She paid an advance payment of 
£1,241.35, and agreed to pay 35 monthly rentals of £413.78.
Since January 2019 the car has suffered a significant number of faults as follows:
18 January 2019  easy entry fault  1,950 miles
26 July 2019  air conditioning fault  7,132 miles
15 August 2019  SRS fault  7,714 miles
30 August 2019  display fault  7,829 miles
4 October 2019  another display fault  8,685 miles
18 November 2020  EML light  16,239 miles
25 January 2021  cylinder head fault  16,598 miles
10 March 2021  further unspecified repair under warranty  16,887 miles 
These faults required Mrs D each time to visit the dealer who supplied the car, which was 
over 20 miles from her home. She had to leave the car with the supplier, who provided 
courtesy cars on a total of 10 occasions while repairs were carried out.
Mrs D became concerned that her car was of unsatisfactory quality and unreliable, and in 
December 2020 she complained to Arval. She said she wanted to cancel her hire agreement 
and for it to take the car back without any penalty.
Arval didnt accept her complaint. It said the manufacturer had confirmed every issue had 
been addressed under warranty, Mrs D had been kept mobile throughout, and the 
manufacturer didnt consider there were any grounds for the customer to reject the car. Arval 
said Mrs D hadnt raised a complaint with it until December 2020. So it said it wouldnt agree 
to Mrs D rejecting the car without charge.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that under 
CRA, which applied to this hire agreement:
there was an implied term that the quality of the goods was satisfactory; and
quality of the goods included their general state and condition and other things like 
their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, 
and durability.
Mrs D had supplied evidence from the supplier confirming the number and frequency of the 
repairs and her reliance on courtesy cars. He thought a reasonable person wouldnt expect 
this number of issues to arise with a new, well maintained car. The car had also been used 
within the agreed contract mileage.
The investigator concluded, on the balance of probabilities, that the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mrs D, in particular that it wasnt reasonably durable. Issues 
with a cylinder head wouldnt be expected within two years of reasonable driving, and 
persistent electrical faults throughout the car also would be unexpected in a brand new 
vehicle. 
He recommended that Mrs D should now be allowed to reject the car with nothing further to 
pay. There had been persistent problems with the car since January 2019; so he also 
recommended that she receive a pro-rata refund in respect of the advance payment, and on 
rentals from January 2019 until settlement.
The investigator thought the refund he proposed was fair to recognise the trouble and upset 
Mrs D had suffered dealing with the repeated faults, the fact that for a significant time she 
didnt have the enjoyment of driving the car she had chosen, and had the worry that the car 
would continue to cause problems and be unreliable.
Arval responded to say, in summary, that it would accept the return of the car with no 
additional payment. But it didnt agree that it should have to pay any refund of advance 
payment or rentals.
It said it hadnt been made aware of the issues until December 2020, the car had been 
repaired under warranty without cost to Mrs D, and Mrs D had been kept fully mobile while 
the car was being repaired. In addition to accepting the return of the car it was prepared to 
offer a refund of one months rental only.
As the parties havent been able to reach agreement, this complaint has been passed to me 
to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons the investigator explained, I find that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when delivered to Mrs D. The various faults which arose have been repaired under warranty, 
But Mrs D didnt have the use and enjoyment she was entitled to expect from a new car. She 
suffered trouble and upset dealing with the faults, and has lost confidence in the car.
Although Arval wasnt aware of the issues until December 2020, Mrs D still experienced 
them. And Arval chose not to address fully the issues that had happened when Mrs D 
brought them to its attention.
So I agree its fair and reasonable that Mrs D should be allowed to reject the car, and be 
compensated for the trouble and upset she suffered, and her loss of enjoyment.   
Putting things right
To put things right, I agree that Mrs D should be allowed now to reject the car, without further 
payment and at no cost to her, and should be compensated, all as set out below.  
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Arval UK Limited to:
end the hire agreement with nothing further to pay from the date Mrs D accepts this 
decision;
collect the car from Mrs D at a time and place convenient to her, and at no cost to 
her;
refund the advance payment of £1,241.35 pro-rata for the time covered under 
contract. To be clear, the proportion returned should be the proportion the period 
from 18 January 2019 (when the first fault arose) until the end of the contract term 
under the agreement bears to the period of the whole contract term under the 
agreement;
refund 5% of the rentals paid by Mrs D under the hire agreement during the period 
between 18 January 2019 and the date Mrs D accepts this decision;
pay yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple on all refunded amounts until the date of 
settlement from, in the case of rentals, the date each rental was originally paid, and, 
in the case of the advance payment, the date the advance payment was originally 
paid (1); and
remove any adverse information from the customers credit file in relation to the hire 
agreement.
(1)If Arval considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs D how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman