DRN-3080877
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) hasnt settled a claim under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. The policy dates were 
between 27 April 2019 and 26 April 2020. The insurer was Mapfre. Mr and Mrs M had 
booked a package holiday which was due to start on 15 June 2020.
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  
formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but essential 
international travel. Due to this, and other circumstances relating to Covid-19, Mr and Mrs M 
cancelled their holiday on 3 April 2020.
Mr and Mrs M made a claim to Mapfre for the deposit theyd paid towards their holiday, 
£400. At one point, Mapfre paid £100 of the claim. There was a dispute over the amount of 
excess charged, but following this, Mapfre said it shouldnt have paid the claim. It said this 
was because Mr and Mrs Ms trip didnt take place during the policy period  so, there was 
no cover in place for the intended trip. Mapfre also paid Mr and Mrs M £50 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused in how it handled their claim.
Mr and Mrs M say that Mapfre should still pay the remaining £100 of their claim, after 
deducting the correct excess.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. While she didnt agree with the reason why 
Mapfre declined the claim, she didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms losses were irrecoverable. She 
thought that in the circumstances of this complaint, Mr and Mrs Ms travel agent shouldve 
provided them a full refund under the relevant regulations. And if the travel agent refused to 
do so, Mr and Mrs M couldve complained to the relevant industry complaints scheme. 
Overall, our investigator thought the offer Mapfre had made for any distress and 
inconvenience caused was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators findings. In short, they dont think the 
regulations our investigator referred to apply in their circumstances. They say this is because 
of the contract they signed with the travel agent, and as they only paid a deposit for their 
package holiday. 
Mr and Mrs M accepted Mapfres offer of £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused, but 
they dont think theyve been fairly compensated for their financial loss.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
The cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Ms policy covers irrecoverable deposits or 
payments. So, in common with most (if not all) travel insurance policies on the market, Mr 
and Mrs Ms policy doesnt cover costs that can be recovered from elsewhere. This is 
because insurance is designed to indemnify the policyholder only if they are unable to 
reclaim their losses from any other source. The reasonable attempts which Id expect a 
policyholder to make to recover their losses from other (and from which other) source varies 
from case to case, depending on the specific facts involved.
Mr and Mrs M had booked a holiday, including flights and accommodation, through a travel 
agent. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think Mr and Mrs Ms booking with the travel agent 
constituted a package holiday under the Package Travel and Linked Arrangements 
Regulations 2018 (the PTR). This means Mr and Mrs Ms travel agent has obligations to 
provide them with a full refund in certain circumstances.
Generally, these obligations arise in situations where the travel agent has terminated the 
package holiday contract. Thats not what happened here, as Mr and Mrs M contacted the 
travel agent on 3 April 2020 to cancel the holiday.
But it looks like the travel agent had already announced on 15 March 2020 that it had 
temporarily suspended vast majority of all travel operations due to Covid-19. And I cant see 
that it was providing holidays from the UK to Mr and Mrs Ms intended destination until after 
their original holiday dates. So, I cant see that the travel agent was providing the holiday Mr 
and Mrs M had booked either at the time of cancellation, or when the holiday was due to 
start.
So, before I could reasonably ask Mapfre to accept Mr and Mrs Ms claim under their travel 
insurance policy, I think they need to pursue the matter further with their travel agent first. If 
the travel agent refuses to provide a refund, Mr and Mrs M might be able to complain about 
this to any relevant industry complaint schemes.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, but I dont think theyve yet shown that their losses are 
irrecoverable. So, I dont think theres anything else Mapfre needs to do at this point, to put 
things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman