DRN-3751705
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard didnt provide her with 
the service it should have.
What happened
Mrs Es accounts were incorrectly closed and so she raised a complaint. This was upheld 
and Barclays agreed to return her accounts to the position they were before the defaults 
were applied. Mrs E says that she was told that her accounts would be sorted and then 
received a letter saying she was no longer in persistent debt and her cards could be used. 
She tried to use her card but this didnt work and so she raised a further complaint. Mrs E 
says Barclays has treated her unfairly and she doesnt think that the compensation offered is 
enough. 
Barclays said that mistakes were made, and Mrs Es accounts were closed earlier than they 
should have been. Because of this it agreed to put her accounts back in the position they 
were before this mistake was made. Barclays said that before the accounts were defaulted, 
they were in persistent debt and Mrs Es card facilities had been withdrawn. When the 
accounts were reinstated a letter was incorrectly sent to Mrs E to say her accounts were out 
of persistent debt and she was able to use them again. It apologised for the mistakes but 
said that Mrs Es cards wouldnt be reinstated, nor her debts written off. It paid Mrs E £150 
compensation (additional to £50 previously paid) for the upset the issues had caused. 
Our investigator noted that Mrs E had raised a complaint and received a final response letter 
in August 2021. He explained why the issues covered in this final response letter fell outside 
of the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. However, he said that the issues of 
the withdrawal of Mrs Es card facilities, as addressed in Barclays 24 May 2022 final 
response letter were in jurisdiction and so he investigated this part of Mrs Es complaint 
Our investigator didnt think that Barclays had done anything wrong by withdrawing Mrs Es 
card facilities and he thought that Mrs E should have been reasonably aware before the 
errors made by Barclays that she wasnt able to use her cards. He noted the mistakes that 
had been made but thought £150 compensation was reasonable to reflect the impact of 
these. 
Mrs E didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that £3,000 was applied to her card 
in November meaning she wasnt in persistent debt and she had letters confirming she was 
out of persistent debt. She said that Barclays has admitted it had made mistakes and that 
the compensation offered didnt properly compensate her for the issues. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has explained there are rules regarding the complaints we can consider, 
and these include rules about the timeframe in which a complaint is referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Given this, my decision relates to the issues addressed in the May 
2022 final response letter regarding the withdrawal of Mrs Es card facilities.
I can see that mistakes have been made and where this happens our role isnt to punish the 
business but to ensure that the customer is put back in the position they would have been 
had the mistakes not been made and, where appropriate, to award compensation. 
In this case, Mrs Es accounts were in persistent debt before the issues she has complained 
about arose. Barclays said it notified Mrs E of the situation on her accounts and what could 
happen if the accounts remained in persistent debt. Given this I do not find I can say it was 
wrong to withdraw the card facility on both Mrs Es accounts in February 2021. Barclays 
apologised that Mrs E wasnt sent a letter at the time to confirm the action that had been 
taken. While I note a letter wasnt sent, given the previous information that had been 
provided and that Mrs Es account statements from February 2021 show her credit limit as 
zero, I think Mrs E should have been reasonably aware of the status of her accounts and 
that she could no longer use her cards.
Mrs E was sent default letters, but her accounts were then closed before the date stated in 
the letters. This issue was addressed in Barclays August 2021 final response letter and 
Mrs E was told that her accounts would be put back in the position they were before the 
default was applied and was paid £50 compensation. In this case as the card facilities had 
been withdrawn, I find it reasonable that this would remain the situation after the resolution 
to the August 2021 complaint was processed.
Unfortunately, a further mistake was made, and Mrs Es accounts were taken out of 
persistent debt and she was sent a letter saying she would be able to use her cards again. 
She then tried to use her card but was unsuccessful. I can understand how upsetting this 
must have been for Mrs E. However, as I do not find that Barclays was wrong to withdraw 
Mrs Es card facilities and this was the situation before she raised her complaint, I do not find 
that the issuing of the letter meant that the cards should be reinstated. I do however think the 
upset caused by this incorrect information needs to be considered.
When Mrs E raised a complaint about not being able to use her cards, Barclays said it 
should have logged a new complaint but there was confusion as to whether the issue related 
to Mrs Es previous complaint. Because of this it didnt provide the response to Mrs E that it 
should have done. It apologised for the upset and confusion this caused.
Overall, it is clear that Barclays has made mistakes in dealing with Mrs E. However, as noted 
above I do not find it did anything wrong by withdrawing her card facilities. Therefore while I 
note the points Mrs E has raised, including the payment made towards her account in 
November, as the card facilities were removed in February 2021 before any of these issues 
arose, I do not require Barclays to take any further action regarding this aspect of Mrs Es 
complaint.
Mrs E hasnt been provided with the service she should have. She was given incorrect 
information about being able to use her cards and the issue with the use of her card wasnt 
set up as a new complaint. I am sorry to hear of Mrs Es health conditions and can 
appreciate that the issues she has experienced over the past months have been particularly 
upsetting for her. However, I can see that Barclays has apologised for its mistakes, provided 
an explanation of what has happened and paid £150 compensation (additional to the 
previous £50 paid). Having considered all aspects to this complaint I find Barclays resolution 
reasonable.My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard is required to do 
anything further in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman