DRN-4501172
The complaint
Ms E complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano), has rejected the claim she made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system 
(the system) she says were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
What happened
In or around November 2019, Ms E was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Ms E decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano. The system was 
subsequently installed.
Ms E made a claim directly to Ikano under section 75 of the Act. Ms E was unhappy with the 
system for a number of reasons and wanted to return the system and get a refund of 
everything shed paid. She was unhappy for the following reasons. 
Ms E said she was mis-led regarding the benefits she would receive from the system. 
She was led to believe that she would receive around £500 annually in benefit from 
the power generated by the system, but this hasnt materialized. 
She doesnt believe the system was working as it was designed to and it was faulty, 
and she received no benefit at all from installation until January 2022. 
She is deeply unhappy with the service provided by the supplier and has been 
pushed between the supplier and the energy provider  with no one taking 
responsibility for the problems shes had with the system for a number of years. It 
wasnt until January 2022, when the system issues were actually resolved. 
Shortly after this, one of the main benefits quoted by P (grid trading) was withdrawn 
by the energy provider Ms E was with. 
Ikano initially didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Ms E or that there were 
any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. The fault with the system has been rectified 
and the system was now in working order. Ikano did subsequently offer to compensate Ms E 
for the period the system wasnt switched on. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. She 
felt the benefits P had quoted hadnt materialised, and neither P nor Ikano could explain how 
theyd been formulated. So, as she couldnt ascertain whether the estimates had been 
reasonably formulated, she accepted Ms E was likely mis-led. She felt Ikano should 
compensate Ms E for her losses. She recommended Ikano offer Ms E the estimated benefit 
in the sales document for the full duration of the loan. 
Ikano didnt agree for the following reasons:
 
The fault with the system (a switch being turned off) had now been rectified. The 
system had always been generating as it should, but Ms E couldnt use the electricity 
or trade with it because the switch had been turned off (or hadnt been turned on). 
The benefits quoted at the time of sale were reasonably estimated. The grid trading 
credits were not estimated by P, but rather the energy provider directly through a 
portal service it ran. P could not be held responsible if the energy provider hadnt 
estimated the benefit correctly. 
The energy provider entering administration and no longer providing the benefit was 
not something P could have foreseen at the time of sale and therefore not something 
P should be held responsible for. But at the time of sale, it was a legitimate estimate 
that it believed Ms E could and should have benefited from. 
It remained of the view, that offering to compensate Ms E for her losses for the period 
the system wasnt correctly switched on was a fair way to resolve the complaint. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review.
In my provisional decision of 17 November 2023, I set out why I was minded to upholding 
the complaint in part. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish 
to make before I reached a final decision. Ikano didnt add any further comments. Ms E 
expressed her disappointment with my findings but did agree to settle the complaint in line 
with my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Ms E paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Ms E could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could have claimed 
against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in 
the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Ms E and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Ikano.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.As explained above, Ms E bought a solar panel system, which was installed in November 
2019. Ms E used a 10-year loan with Ikano to fund the purchase of the system. 
Ms E says she raised concerns in 2020 with both P and her energy provider that she didnt 
seem to be getting any benefit from the system and says neither party assisted her with 
resolving the issues. 
Ms E subsequently contacted Ikano seeking to unwind the agreement, return the goods and 
get a refund of everything shed paid. She explained shed been making the monthly 
payments under the loan agreement for a number of years but hadnt received any benefit 
whatsoever in return. 
In January 2022, P inspected the system and noted a switch had been turned off. So, while 
the system had been generating, Ms E hadnt been able to use any of the energy generated 
nor trade with it to get any benefits from the energy provider. Ikano and P said the system 
was generating as it was meant to be and was in working order. 
The energy provider also replied explaining the same  and this is why she hadnt received 
any credits from the provider. Ms E was also subsequently told that her energy provider had 
entered administration and it no longer provided this benefit. 
Ms E says the system and switch is in the loft which she couldnt access. And shed not 
received any benefit from the system since installation. 
The system benefits being misrepresented to Ms E
I understand Ms E appears to have a sales quote from October 2019 from a different 
supplier which Ill call R. But Ikano says this wasnt the system Ms E bought or it financed so 
the information it provided in relation to the sale isnt relevant. Ikano is only responsible for 
the misrepresentation and/or breach of contract of the supplier that it financed the loan for. 
So, Ive only considered the information provided by P in this complaint. 
Ps sales contract from the time of sale sets out the benefit Ms E could expect from the 
system. 
As set out above. This shows Ms E is expected to achieve energy savings between £84.32 
and £168.63 and SE Grid Trade credits of £264.39 annually. In total, her annual benefit was 
expected to be between £490.70 and £575.02 (including an additional gas extra). 
These amounts are broadly in line with what Ms E says she recalls from the sale, that shed 
receive around £500 in benefit annually. 
In order for me to uphold this complaint, Id have to be satisfied that P gave Ms E estimates 
that it knew were incorrect, inaccurate or unreasonably formulated at the time of sale. The 
fact that the estimates might not have materialised isnt sufficient to demonstrate that P has 
failed in its duty of care towards Ms E. These were estimates not guarantees. 
The validation sheet which formed part of the contract explicitly says;
The performance of renewable energy systems is impossible to predict with certainty due to 
the variables that affect performance .
I understand Ms E has shown the credits received from her energy provider for grid trading 
has been significantly less than what was quoted since Jan 2022. As explained above, she 
didnt receive any credits prior to this as the system had an AC switch that hadnt been 
turned on which would have enabled the energy provider to calculate her benefits. Ms E felt 
that this therefore amounts to a misrepresentation. She bought the system on the basis that 
it would provide her with the level of benefit quoted in the contract, and this hadnt 
materialised. 
However, Ikano has explained that the grid trading credit element of the quote was not 
formulated by P  but by the energy provider directly via a portal run by the energy provider. 
As can be seen on the contract  the quote says SE benefit as per quote tool.. If the benefit 
amount quoted by the provider was incorrectly estimated, or overestimated by the provider, 
thats not something P can be held responsible for unless it knew or had reason to believe 
that the amounts quoted were unlikely to be achieved but it continued to pass that 
information on in any event. And Ive seen no evidence that this is the case here. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that P did anything wrong when it formulated the contract. I 
accept these estimated benefits havent materialised, but as explained above, that isnt 
sufficient for me to uphold this complaint. Id have to be persuaded that P gave Ms E 
estimates incorrectly or knowing they wouldnt materialise.
As Ms Es systems AC switch has been switched off (or never turned on), she hasnt used 
the energy produced by the system, so her bills havent reduced in line with the contract. But 
this was due to the switch being off, not because the benefits have been incorrectly quoted 
at the time of sale. From what I know about solar panels, the savings estimates do not 
appear to be at an unreasonable level that persuades me that they were vastly incorrect in 
the absence of any evidence to the contrary. And as explained above, the benefit for grid 
trading was formulated by the provider not P  so if that was unreasonably formulated, that 
doesnt mean P did anything wrong that Ikano needs to put right.
I understand that grid trading benefit has now been withdrawn by the provider since it 
entered administration. P can only provide Ms E with estimates based on the information it 
has available at the time of sale  and it must do so by exercising reasonable care and skill. 
But it cannot be responsible for things that might happen in the future outside of its control 
such as a benefit being withdrawn or a provider going into administration, when that was not 
reasonably foreseeable at the time of sale. 
I appreciate that Ms E has suffered losses due to the grid trading benefit not materialising 
and subsequently being withdrawn. I fully appreciate how disappointing that must be. But 
this doesnt mean P did anything wrong in relation to this at the time of sale that would 
enable me to uphold Ms Es complaint on that basis.In terms of her savings estimate, as explained above, Ive seen nothing to suggest that these 
havent been reasonably formulated. Ikano says her system is and has always worked as it 
was designed to, but because of the AC switch issue, Ms E simply hasnt benefitted from it. 
It is now working as it was designed to. As the system is now generating power, and Ms E is 
able to use some of this, it means shell have to buy less electricity from her current energy 
provider  and this means she will make some savings on her bills going forward.  
But overall, I dont think theres enough here for me to make a reasonable finding that the 
estimates made by P at the time of sale amount to a misrepresentation. 
The system being faulty 
Ms Es system was installed in the latter part of 2019. I can see she made a number of calls 
chasing both P and her energy provider throughout 2020 trying to figure out why she wasnt 
receiving any benefit. Its not until 2022, that P inspected the system and found the problem 
with the switch which was then rectified. 
Given the system was in Ms Es loft, which is difficult for her to get to, that she doesnt 
understand the ins and out of solar panel installation and mechanisms, and this problem 
appears to have occurred since installation, I dont think Ms E can be held responsible for 
the system issues. Rather, I think its more likely that the switch was either not switched on 
during the installation or accidently switched off at that time by P.
While it does look like the system issue has now been resolved, I dont think its reasonable 
that it took so long for this issue to be resolved and Ms E has suffered not only losses in 
relation to this but significant inconvenience. 
So, like Ikano appears to now agree, I think it should compensate Ms E for the losses she 
has suffered from installation until the problem was rectified in January 2022. I also think 
Ikano should compensate Ms E for the time and effort shes spent trying to resolve this 
issue. 
Given the system was switched off likely since installation, its difficult to work out what 
Ms Es actual losses were during this period. The sales paperwork suggests that Ms E was 
expected to achieve between £490.70 and £575.02 per year from the system. I think Ikano 
should use this as a basis for calculating Ms Es loss. 
I think Ikano should use the figure of £575.02 per year to work out a daily rate of benefit. It 
should then compensate her for the lost benefit from the date of installation until the date the 
system issue was rectified. I also think Ikano should pay Ms E £300 compensation for the 
trouble and upset shes experienced. 
 
I have also thought about Ms Es wish to unwind the contract. I have no doubt that Ms E is 
incredibly disappointed with how the system has performed and how shes been treated by P 
post installation. However, the system is in working order and Ive seen nothing to suggest 
its faulty. Other than the switch not being turned on, it seems to have functioned as it was 
designed to. And the issue with the switch has been resolved. Ms E is also going to be 
compensated for both the losses she suffered as well as for the trouble and upset shes 
experienced. So, I dont think a full unwind is warranted here. 
I understand Ms Es former energy provider has entered administration  while I understand 
it is frustrating, she will now have to work with her new provider to see what benefit she can 
sign up for. P (and therefore Ikano) were only responsible for the sale and installation of the 
system. While I think it ought to have ensured the system was correctly set up at installation, 
its under no obligation to sort out issues with her energy providers post sale. Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Ms E to enter 
into the contract for the system.
However, I do think it failed to deal with her concerns in a timely manner which caused her to 
suffer a loss as well as worry and inconvenience. So, I think Ikano should put this right. 
Putting things right 
To put things right, Ikano should:
Pay Ms E £300 compensation for the inconvenience and worry caused. 
Pay Ms E the losses shes suffered from the date of installation until the date the 
system issue was rectified. Ikano should use the annual estimate of £575.02 to work 
out a daily rate of benefit to calculate Ms Es losses. And as Ms E has been deprived 
of the benefits, Ikano should add 8% simple interest on to this amount.
I understand Ms E is disappointed that I havent upheld her complaint in full, and while Im 
sorry she is so disappointed, I have to decide the case based on the available evidence and 
reach a conclusion that is fair and reasonable. As neither party have made any additional 
submissions, in the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart 
from my original findings as set out in my provisional decision (and set out above). With this 
in mind, I uphold this complaint and Ikano should put things right as Ive set out below. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Ikano must:
Pay Ms E £300 compensation for the inconvenience and worry caused. 
Pay Ms E the losses shes suffered from the date of installation until the date the 
system issue was rectified. Ikano should use the annual estimate of £575.02 to work 
out a daily rate of benefit to calculate Ms Es losses. And as Ms E has been deprived 
of the benefits, Ikano should add 8% simple interest on to this amount.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman