DRN-3381067
The complaint
Miss C has complained to us that J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) 
irresponsibly gave her a catalogue shopping account credit facility that she couldnt afford.
What happened
In November 2018, Miss C applied for a catalogue shopping account with J D Williams. She 
was given an initial credit limit of £125. This was followed by six credit limit increases 
between May and November 2019, with the final limit increase being £1250. 
In May 2020, Miss C complained to J D Williams to say that the account shouldnt have 
been opened for her given the defaults she already had on her credit file. She also said it 
shouldnt have increased her credit limits. 
J D Williams says it carried out enough checks when it agreed to give Miss C her account 
and also each time it increased her credit limit. 
In my provisional decision dated 25 February 2022 I explained why didnt agree with the 
adjudicators view and that it was my intention to partially uphold Miss Cs complaint. I set 
out an extract below:
There isnt a set criteria for what a proportionate check ought to encompass. And from 
what Ive seen its not clear what checks J D Williams carried out before opening a credit 
account for Miss C. But given that J D Williams was proposing to give Miss C a very 
modest limit of only £125 which required only small monthly repayments, I dont think it 
was necessary at that point for it to verify Miss Cs income or ask about her other 
committed expenditure (outside of the credit commitments the credit check would have 
shown). I say this taking into account that we now know Miss C had at least two defaults 
with other creditors at the time she took out the J D Williams account. But I dont think 
these defaults on their own ought to have meant J D Williams shouldnt have opened the 
account. 
Miss C also says she was borrowing significant amounts from other lenders at the time 
and that these had led to defaults on her credit file. Unfortunately, without further details 
about Miss Cs financial situation at the time, such as bank statements or payslips, I cant 
know what information would have been available to J D Williams at the time.
In any event, I havent seen enough to persuade me that J D Williams would or should 
have seen that Miss C financial circumstances were such that offering her a catalogue 
account credit facility of £125 was unreasonable. 
I note J D Williams increased Miss Cs credit limit on six occasions, which it says was to 
assist Miss C. It first did this in May 2019, raising the limit to £200. Here I do have a 
concern that J D Williams was considering increasing a credit limit when a consumer was 
making only minimum payments to be helpful. But my chief concern is where, having seen 
from the information J D Williams has given me, that Miss C was getting into financial 
difficulty with other credit providers in around August 2019, but J D Williams still increased 
Miss Cs credit limit to £1000. Ive also seen that her spending on the account for that 
month went up by almost five times what shed been spending each month on the account 
previously. Meanwhile she was continuing to make payments that were only a little above 
the minimum payment requested. It appears that J D Williams would likely have seen that 
Miss C had defaulted on another credit commitment very recently. All of this ought to have 
indicated she was unable to manage her existing credit in a sustainable way. 
So given the level of borrowing on the account and her worsening financial situation, 
which is supported by the low level of payments being made and management of other 
credit commitments, I think JD Williams should have realised by August 2019 that Miss C 
was in financial difficulty and would have had trouble paying back even a modest amount 
of credit. So I think J D Williams ought to have realised that there was a significant risk 
that increasing her credit limit in these circumstances would lead to her indebtedness 
increasing unsustainably.
I therefore currently think that Miss C lost out because J D Williams provided her with 
further credit from August 2019 onwards. In my view, J D Williams actions unfairly 
prolonged Miss Cs indebtedness by allowing her to use credit she couldnt afford over an 
extended period of time and the interest being added got her into further debt. So my 
provisional decision is that J D Williams will need to take steps to put things right.
Ive seen that our adjudicator sent Miss C and J D Williams a copy of my provisional 
decision, requiring them to respond with any more information theyd like me to consider by 
11 March 2022. I see that J D Williams acknowledged receipt of my decision but didnt come 
back to us with any more information by the date requested. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
J D Williams will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
wont be departing from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
partially upholding Miss Cs complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
I therefore partially uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Putting things right  what J D Williams needs to do
Rework Miss Cs account to ensure that from 31 July 2019 onwards interest is 
only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £700, including any buy 
now pay later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the 
fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. All late 
payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made J D Williams should contact Miss C to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for the account. Once Miss C has repaid the outstanding balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file from 31 
July 2019 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss C, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. J D Williams should also remove any adverse information from Miss 
Cs credit file from 31 July 2019.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. 
J D Williams must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Miss Cs complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman