DRN-1320250
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C took out two packaged bank accounts (PBAs) with Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays), one in November 2009 and one in November 2015. They were charged a 
monthly fee for both. They say the accounts were mis-sold.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took out the following accounts with Barclays:
Account Date of sale Fee paid?
Current July 2007 No
Premier Life November 2009 Yes
Feature store pack November 2015 Yes
Mr and Mrs C say that they were told in November 2009 that they were being migrated to the 
Premier Life accounts. Then they were told in November 2015 that they were being migrated 
to the Feature store pack. Mr And Mrs C say they werent given a choice and the fee-paying 
accounts werent suitable for them.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PBAs were mis-sold but Mr and Mrs C disagree, so the case 
has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Mr and Mrs C have made some legal arguments in their case which I have taken account of 
and I will refer to further below. 
The Premier Life account sale
In looking at Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about the Premier Life account sale I need firstly to 
consider two things; whether they knew they had a choice between taking out a fee free 
account or the Premier Life account they bought; and whether Barclays advised them to buy 
the Premier Life account or not. 
Mr and Mrs C have been clear in them testimony that they believe that they were not given 
any choice and were simply migrated to the new account. Barclays says it did give Mr and 
Mrs C a choice.
I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Cs honest recollections on this, but I think its more likely than not 
that their memory is mistaken, and they did know they had a choice. I say this because Mr 
and Mrs C had previously had a fee free account with Barclays for many years so I think 
they would have queried any advice that told them they had to pay a fee for an account. I 
have no systemic evidence from Barclays practices at the time that it wasnt offering a 
choice. And I also think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C would have known that 
fee free accounts were available from many other banks and building societies as these 
were widely advertised and used. So, Im not able to say that I think they were completely 
unaware they had other options as I would have to in order to uphold their complaint on this 
point.
So, I think Mr and Mrs C did know they had a choice about whether to take out the Premier 
Life account in November 2009 and they chose to do so.
Did Barclays advise them to take out the Premier Life account? 
Barclays says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
Premier Life account to Mr and Mrs C personally or advise them to take it out. Mr and Mrs C 
says that Barclays did advise them to take out the Premier Life account. 
Barclays has provided evidence that this was a branch sale. I dont know what was said during 
the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of discussions about Mr and Mrs Cs 
needs and circumstances or suitability checks to show me clearly that Barclays did make a 
personal recommendation to them. I accept its possible that in providing information to Mr and 
Mrs C and explaining the benefits of the Premier Life account, Barclays may have said or 
implied that it was good idea to take it out. But this isnt the same as giving personal 
recommendations. And based on this services knowledge of Barclays sales practices 
throughout this period, I think its more likely than not that Barclays sold the Premier Life 
account to Mr and Mrs C on an information only basis. This means Barclays did not have to 
ensure that the Premier Life account was suitable for Mr and Mrs C at the time of the sale.
So overall, I think Mr and Mrs C were aware they had a choice about whether to take out the 
Premier Life account and the only requirement on Barclays was to provide them with enough 
information for them to make an informed choice.
Did Barclays provide Mr and Mrs C with enough information about the Premier Life account?
The Premier Life account benefits included worldwide travel insurance, mobile phone 
insurance, RAC breakdown cover, airport lounge access, home SOS cover, gadget insurance 
and a £1000 interest free overdraft buffer.
I dont know what information Barclays gave to Mr and Mrs C at the time of sale. But Barclays 
were trying to sell them the account, and Mr and Mrs C made substantial use of the benefits 
as highlighted below. So, I think its more likely than not that Barclays provided them with 
detailed information about the account in a way that they understood.
Barclays has provided evidence that Mr and Mrs C registered for mobile phone insurance and 
airport lounge access and used both on multiple occasions; used the car breakdown service; 
registered for gadget insurance; and used and benefitted from the £1000 interest free 
overdraft buffer.
So, in my view the Premier Life account was clearly of interest to Mr and Mrs C and I dont 
think any information Barclays failed to give them wouldve put them off buying it. 
The change to the Feature store packIn 2015 Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs C and explained that they would no longer be eligible for 
the Premier Life account and explained that it would change their account to the nearest 
equivalent which was a Feature store pack unless they responded. Barclays says that it also 
wrote to them after changing the account to say it had done so. Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is 
that they didnt agree to this migration of the account.
Barclays has provided copies of the letters it sent to Mr and Mrs C. They are correctly 
addressed and explain the situation clearly. So, I dont think I can say its more likely than not 
that they didnt receive either letter and didnt know what was happening as I would have to if I 
were to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint on this point.
Summary
So overall, I think Mr and Mrs C chose to take out and retain their Premier Life account and 
the Feature store pack and they havent lost out as result of anything Barclays may have 
done wrong.
For completeness, Id like to be clear that Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Cs legal 
arguments about, for example, causation, misrepresentation, breach of duty of utmost good 
faith, and breach of statutory duty. But these do not change my view of what is fair and 
reasonable in this case, which is what Im required to consider, for the reasons Ive given 
above.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman