DRN-2430868
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Santander UK Plc required them to pay an early repayment 
charge (ERC) on their mortgage with it. They feel this discriminates against them and is in 
breach of the Equality Act 2010, which requires disabled people to be treated fairly.
What happened
In 2014 Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Santander to buy a property. They took a 
mortgage of £492,000 on a repayment basis, with a repayment term of 29 years. A two-year 
fixed interest rate product was attached to the mortgage. New interest rate products were 
taken in 2016 and at the end of 2018. The 2018 product had a term that ended in 
March 2021 and a 3% ERC attached to it.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs C decided to sell their home and move because of their sons disability. 
They explained why they needed to move and asked Santander to waive the ERC on 
repayment of the mortgage. Alternatively, Mr and Mrs C asked that the ERC be charged on 
a pro-rata basis  based on how much of the term of the interest rate product was left. 
Santander didnt agree to waive or reduce the ERC.
The property was sold in November 2019 and Mr and Mrs C were charged an ERC of just 
under £13,000.
Mr and Mrs C complained to Santander about its decision. They said they felt the decision 
was discriminatory as they were forced to sell, due to their sons disability and the 
circumstances that flowed from it.
Santander didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Santander explained it incurs costs when 
a mortgage is repaid early and so it didnt consider its policy of charging ERCs was 
discriminatory. It went on to explain it allowed customers to transfer products to other 
mortgages and this option was still open to Mr and Mrs C for a short period if they changed 
their minds about renting rather than buying. If the product was transferred, some or all of 
the ERC could be refunded. Santander did, however, offer Mr and Mrs C a goodwill gesture 
in light of their personal circumstances of £1,000. Santander transferred the money to 
Mr and Mrs Cs bank account in January 2020.
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with Santanders response and referred their complaint to this 
service. They confirmed that they werent able to follow Santanders suggestion about 
porting the interest rate product to a new mortgage because the area theyd had to move to 
was too expensive. 
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, but he didnt recommend it be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They reiterated they felt 
that Santander didnt adequately take their sons disability into account and, therefore, 
discriminated against him and their family. They attached details of a comment that had 
been attached to a newspaper article, following which Santander is reported to have waived 
payment of an ERC due to the customer having been given incorrect information by its staff. 
Mr and Mrs C said if Santander didnt provide them with a pro-rata refund of the ERC they 
would consider highlighting the treatment of disabled families in the press. 
Mr and Mrs Cs comments didnt change the investigators conclusions and so the complaint 
has been passed to me for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing so I have taken into account the law, as well as regulation, guidance and good 
practice, to decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The 
law that Mr and Mrs C have asked me to take into account here is the Equality Act 2010.  
The Act says that, in summary - that a person with a protected characteristic  such as 
disability  is protected from less favourable treatment than would otherwise apply if the 
characteristic were not present in the party alleging discrimination. 
Its not my role to make findings on matters of law, including whether or not Santander is in 
breach of obligations under the Act. However, as I say, this is something I will take into 
account in deciding whether Santander acted fairly.
In order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders enter into financial arrangements to secure 
funds. As with loans made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with the 
lender securing funds. As such, a lender is allowed to charge an ERC in the event a 
consumer repays their mortgage early to cover any losses it will incur. In the case of 
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage, the ERC was set at 3% of the amount repaid. This was clearly set 
out in the documentation given to Mr and Mrs C before they signed up to the new interest 
rate product. As was the time period the ERC would be payable. 
Mr and Mrs C were charged the ERC in line with the mortgage terms and conditions 
because they repaid their mortgage early. I havent seen any evidence they were treated any 
differently from, or any less favourably than, any other consumers in the same position. 
Whilst I can understand why, given their circumstances, they asked Santander to reduce or 
waive the ERC, it was under no obligation to do so. That said, in light of Mr and Mrs Cs 
situation, Santander paid them £1,000 as a goodwill gesture, which I think was entirely fair of 
it. 
I know that this will disappoint Mr and Mrs C, but I dont consider Santander acted 
unreasonably or unfairly in requiring them to abide by the terms of the contract they signed 
up to and pay the ERC. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman