DRN-4037825
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with Startline 
Motor Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2021, Miss B was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Startline. She paid a deposit of £1,240 and the agreement was for £15,000 over 60 
months; with 59 monthly repayments of £382.55 and a final payment of £392.55. At the time 
of supply the car was around two years old and had done 6,000 miles.
On 22 October 2022, the car broke down and she called out a recovery service, who 
confirmed there was a problem with the engine. And they told Miss B the car was unsafe to 
drive. Miss B complained to Startline about this, but they didnt respond to her complaint. So, 
she brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation
Miss B had the car inspected by an independent engineer, who said the failure wasnt due to 
wear and tear. But they recommended further testing to determine the exact failure of the 
car. Miss B had this testing done, and it revealed there was damage to the cylinder head. 
Our investigator thought this was unlikely to have been caused by user error, and he said 
the car was likely faulty, or developing a fault, when it was supplied to Miss B. Because of 
this, he thought the car was of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied, and that 
Startline need to do something to put things right.
The evidence indicated the cost of any repair would be more than the value of the car, so the 
investigator said Miss B should be allowed to reject the car. And Startline should refund the 
deposit, any payments Miss B had made since October 2022, and the costs of the reports 
Miss B obtained; all with statutory interest. In addition, the investigator said that Startline 
should pay Miss B £200 for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused.
While Miss B accepted the investigators recommendation, Startline asked for evidence of 
Miss Bs costs. This was provided to them, but theyve made no response, other than theyve 
passed this information to the broker who arranged the finance. As such, this matter has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
While this matter has been ongoing, Miss B has started to be charged for storage of the car. 
And Startline have been made aware of these costs, and the investigator confirmed that 
these should be included in the costs hes asked them to pay. Again, Startline provided no 
response to this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss B was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Startline are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, it implies that the fault was present when the 
car was supplied, unless Startline can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, it implies that its for Miss B to show that it was present when the car 
was supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss B took possession of it, and this 
made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Startline to put 
this right.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report, dated 12 December 2022. At the time 
of the inspection, the car had done 12,472 miles. The engineer said the engine had failed 
but it is not possible to comment on what has caused the exact failure. Pressure testing of 
the cylinder head is strongly advised  the head gasket did not display evidence visible to 
suggest a premature failure having caused the failure. 
In a follow up email dated 11 January 2023, the engineer confirmed with the mileage 
covered from manufacture and the visible components seen during the inspection, the 
engine failure would not be due to wear and tear.
Ive also seen a copy of an invoice dated 1 February 2023 from a specialist garage for 
pressure testing of the cylinder head. And this says the head is leaking in the exhaust 
manifold. Both Startline and Miss B have accepted this report. And Miss B has said shes 
been quoted £14,000 to repair a crack in the cylinder.
Based on what Ive seen. Im satisfied theres a fault with the car. While I havent seen 
anything to show me that this issue was definitely present or developing at the point of 
supply, I also havent seen anything that indicates the fault was as a result of Miss Bs 
actions i.e. because of her driving style or a lack of maintenance. 
Given this, Ive considered the age of the car, and the mileage that had been done at the 
point the engine failed. And, given the young age and low mileage, the fault isnt something 
that could be considered normal wear and tear. As such, Im satisfied that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable when it was supplied to Miss B. And this makes it of an unsatisfactory 
quality. So, Im satisfied that Startline should do something to put things right.Putting things right
Based on the limited evidence I have it seems that the car isnt economical to repair.  
However, if I were to consider a repair, I also need to consider that the CRA requires a repair 
to take place within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the 
consumer. Startline have been aware of, and accepted, the fault with the car for a number 
of months. But theyve made no offer to repair the car, nor have they said why they think the 
car was of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss B.
Given this, I dont consider that the requirements of the CRA have been met. And, in these 
circumstances, I think Miss B should be allowed to reject the car.
Miss B had use of the car from December 2021 to October 2022, so I think its only fair that 
she pays for this usage. However, as the car was declared undrivable on 22 October 2022, 
any payments made after this date should be refunded to her. I also think that Startline 
should refund the costs Miss B has incurred. And this includes any storage costs resulting 
from the car being left with the specialist garage as its undrivable.
In addition to this, Miss B has explained the impact this matter has had on her and her 
health. And its clear shes been inconvenienced and frustrated by what has happened. The 
investigator has recommended that Startline pay her £200 compensation for this, and 
amount Miss B has accepted. As this is in line with what I wouldve directed had no 
recommendation been made, I see no reason not to adopt this as part of my final decision .
So, unless Startline have already done this, they should:
close the agreement with nothing further to pay;
arrange to collect the car at no cost to Miss B (which includes payment of any 
storage charges);
remove any negative information relating to this agreement from Miss Bs credit file;
refund the £1,240 deposit Miss B paid;
refund all payments Miss B paid from 22 October 2022 onwards;
refund the £1,052 inspection costs Miss B paid (proof of which has already been 
provided)
apply 8% simple yearly interest on these refunds, calculated from the date Miss B 
made the payments to the date of the refund ;and
pay Miss B £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused by her being supplied 
with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Startline to take off tax from this interest. Startline must 
give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Miss Bs complaint and Startline Motor Limited should 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman