DRN-3601960
The complaint
Miss D complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans unfairly closed her
loan and recorded a default on her credit file.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Miss D took out a loan with Likely Loans in December 2018. There were some missed 
payments from March 2019 and in July 2019 Miss D made a partial payment of £50. 
Payments of £10 a month were then taken until December 2020. In January 2021 Miss D 
started making payments of £100 a month to cover the contractual payment and repay 
arrears.
In March 2021 Likely Loans spoke with Miss D and agreed a payment arrangement for 
three months. During the call, Miss D was asked to contact Likely Loans before the 
payment arrangement ended. But Likely Loans didnt hear from Miss D before the end of 
the plan. On 7 June 2021 Likely Loans sent Miss D a default notice advising it would close 
the loan and report it to the credit reference agencies if a payment wasnt made or contact 
received.
On 10 June 2021 Miss D spoke with Likely Loans and agreed a new payment 
arrangement of £100 a month. Miss D was asked to call back before the end of the 
payment arrangement to put a new one in place. Likely Loans also sent Miss D a letter 
confirming the arrangement and request for contact before the plan ended.
Miss D made the payments due under the arrangement with Likely Loans. But in 
December 2021 Likely Loans took the step of closing Miss Ds loan and recording a 
default on her credit file.
Miss D went on to contact Likely Loans on 14 January 2022 and discussed a new payment 
arrangement. But by this point the loan had closed and Miss D complained. Likely Loans 
sent Miss D a final response but explained the default notice issued in June 2020 
remained valid and that it had closed her loan after she failed to make contact at the end 
of the existing payment arrangement in December 2021.
An investigator at this service looked at Miss Ds complain but didnt think Likely Loans had
treated her unfairly when it closed the loan and recorded a default. Miss D asked to appeal.
Miss D accepted she hadnt called Likely Loans back before the end of her plan but said 
no payments had been missed. Miss D also explained that Likely Loans had sent her 
monthly text reminders to make the payment due under the arrangement but didnt warn 
her before closing her loan. As Miss D asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand Likely Loans doesnt warn customers before a payment arrangement 
ends, Im not persuaded it acted unfairly by closing Miss Ds loan and recording a default 
on her credit file. Ill explain why.
Miss D experienced financial difficulties that led to arrears on her loan. I can see that 
during 2019 and 2020 payments were missed or only partially made. But from January 
2021 Miss Ds situation appears to have improved. From that point, Miss D made 
payments in excess of the contractual amount due each month to repay the arrears. No 
payments, including the December 2021 payment, were missed.
Likely Loans has pointed out it sent a default notice to Miss D on 7 June 2021 and Ive 
read it. I can see the default notice asked Miss D to either make a payment to repay the 
full balance or make contact. Miss D went on to call Likely Loans a few days later.
In my view, this call was important. Not just because it was the last payment arrangement 
Miss D agreed before her loan was closed. But because of the language used by the call 
handler and information provided. Ive listened to the call. After agreeing to accept six 
monthly payments of £100, Likely Loans agent repeatedly said the default notice that had 
recently been sent wouldnt go any further. I understand the agent also asked Miss D to 
make contact before the new payment arrangement came to an end, but I havent been 
persuaded they made the consequences of failing to do so sufficiently clear. There was no 
reference made to Likely Loans enforcing the default notice if Miss D failed to call back. In 
my view, the agent made it sound as if the default process had been reset and the notice 
was no longer valid.
Ive read Likely Loans letter dated 10 June 2021 confirming the new payment 
arrangement and also requesting contact before its end. But, again, the consequences of 
failing to do so were not made clear. The letter appears to be generic in nature but I think 
the fact Likely Loans had recently issued a default notice meant it needed to be 
particularly clear with Miss D about what would happen if no contact was made.
I also think its fair to note the arrangement only failed because Miss D forgot to make a 
call, not because she was unwilling to pay or extend the arrangement. A further payment 
arrangement was agreed with Miss D in January 2022. I understand the loan was later sold 
to a third party when Miss D missed a payment after she lost her job. But Miss D has 
confirmed she is employed and can continue to make repayments.
I havent been persuaded that Likely Loans acted fairly when it closed Miss Ds loan and 
recorded a default in December 2021. As a result, I intend to uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Miss D has asked for the default to be removed. Subject to completing an affordability 
check, I think the fairest approach is for Likely Loans to remove the default from Miss Ds 
credit file and reinstate her loan. Likely Loans will also need to consider an affordable 
payment arrangement to clear any remaining arrears.
I understand the loan has been sold to a third party. Likely Loans will either need to make 
arrangements to retrieve it or work with the new debt owner in putting the settlement in 
place. If the new debt owner is also recording adverse information, like a default, Likely 
Loans should work with it to remove the entry.
I can see this issue has caused Miss D a reasonable level of distress and inconvenience at 
an already difficult time. So I also int Miss D £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused.I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before making my final decision. Miss D confirmed she accepted the 
provisional decision. We didnt hear back from Likely Loans. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Miss Ds complaint should 
be upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Ds complaint and direct Oakbrook Finance Limited trading 
as Likely Loans to settle as follows: 
- Subject to completing an affordability check, take steps to reinstate the loan and 
repayments. Likely Loans should work with Miss D to ensure an affordable payment 
arrangement to clear the arrears is agreed
- Subject to the above, remove the default recorded on Miss Ds credit file
- If the loan has been sold to a third party, take steps to retrieve it or work with the new 
owner to put this settlement in place. If the new debt owner is recording adverse 
information, like a default, on Miss Ds credit file Likely Loans should work with it to 
have that information removed
- Pay Miss D £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman