DRN-3043484
The complaint
Mr M has complained about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portafina) to transfer a defined benefit occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). The funds within the SIPP were then used to invest in 
several unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).
Mr M is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr M.
What happened
In late 2013, Mr M came into contact with an unregulated introducer offering a pension 
review. He was then put in touch with an advisory firm (Firm C), who at that time was an 
appointed representative (AR) of a regulated business (Firm S). Firm S was authorised by 
the FCA to provide investment advice, but neither Firm S nor Firm C were authorised to 
provide pension transfer advice. So, as part of an established introducer arrangement Mr M 
was introduced by Firm C to Portafina, who were authorised to provide pension transfer 
advice. 
Portafina had an established business arrangement with Firm C, whereby Portafina would
provide the pension transfer advice before referring the client back to Firm C for investment 
advice on the transferred funds, and this arrangement was followed for Mr M.
Mr M was approaching age 63 and a full time carer for his wife. He was in good health but 
had a stomach condition. His only income was a carers allowance of £244 per month, which 
wasnt means tested. His wife was receiving disability living allowance which wasnt means 
tested and pension credits which were means tested. They still had a few years to run on 
their interest only mortgage of about £70,000 and then expected to have to sell their property 
as they had no other means to repay the mortgage. 
The fact find said Mr M had debts of £2,250 and disposable income of several hundred 
pounds per month, although Mr M disputes this and says that he had no disposable income 
but was able to manage his debt. Mr and Mrs M had no other realisable assets.
Mr M had a deferred OPS with a transfer value of around £39,000. The normal pension age 
was 65, when the expected pension would be £1,717 per year and included a 50% 
dependants pension. Its unclear if the pension would be reduced if taken earlier than 65 but 
some of it could be commuted for a maximum tax-free cash (TFC) payment of £7,992.
Portafina conducted an attitude to risk (ATR) assessment which included the following 
answers;
People who know me would describe me as a cautious person - agree
I feel comfortable about investing in the stock market  no strong opinion
I generally look for safer investments even if that means lower returns - agree
Usually it takes me a long time to make up my mind on investment matters  strongly 
agree
I find investment matters easy to understand  strongly disagree
It recorded Mr M as a balanced investor, which was defined as;
Balanced investors typically have moderate levels of knowledge about investment 
matters and will pay some attention to keeping up to date with investment matters. 
They may have some experience of investment, including investing in products 
containing riskier assets such as equities and bonds. In general balanced investors 
understand that they have to take investment risk in order to be able to meet their 
long term goals. They are likely to be willing to take risk with part of their available 
assets. Balanced investors will usually be able to make up their minds on investment 
matters relatively quickly, but do still suffer from some feelings of regret when their 
investment decisions turn out badly.
A transfer value analysis (TVAS) calculated critical yields at age 65 of 13.5% per year 
based on a full pension or 7.2% per year after taking TFC and receiving a reduced pension. 
Mr M was contacted by telephone by a Portafina paraplanner who discussed his objectives 
and went over the main points of the transfer. Portafina asked Mr M to agree its TVAS 
assumptions, including 2% for RPI and a life expectancy of 90 years, and the paraplanner 
also noted;
The client didnt realise he had this plan and anything is a bonus to him. He wants to 
take max TFC now to pay off debt and wait until 65 to take income as he doesnt 
want any benefits affected. He does not want to wait until age 65 for TFC, even if 
there is a reduction in the amount he would get.
Shortly after the telephone call an advisor sent Mr M a suitability report (SR) which 
recommended he transfer his OPS to a SIPP with Novia. The relevant points from the SR 
were as follows.
It set out Mr Ms main objectives;
You expressed the opinion that being able to draw income from age 65 onwards 
would be a useful benefit and that the flexibility to do so was important to you....a 
higher level pension or the flexibility to draw a higher pension in the early years via 
an income drawdown was likely to provide you with better value for moneyYou 
stated that you wish to obtain the maximum Tax Free Cash from your plan. The 
reason for the tax free lump sum is to pay off debtenhanced death benefits are a 
significant priority for you as you wish to provide your wife [Mrs M] with the best 
possible widows pension should you predecease her in retirement. flexible pension 
planning that could meet your changing needs and circumstances in the future would 
be more desirable than inflexible benefits such as those currently provided by the 
Scheme.Overall you are prepared to suffer a potential reduction in pension of up to 
10% in order to achieve this flexibility.It discussed alternatives for paying off the debt;
Loan
() Should you decide to continue paying off your debt through monthly 
contributions rather than using the Tax Free Cash lump sum from your pension, you 
will have a total repayment of £10,712 calculated at a market average rate of 10.55% 
APR on the debt, with a pension value of £42,523 based on 5% growth at retirement. 
If however, you decide to take your Tax Free Cash lump sum from your pension and 
use this to pay off your debt upfront, while refocusing your debt contributions into 
your pension; you will have total contributions into your pension of £12,854 (this has 
been grossed up due to tax relief) and a pension value of £43,114 based on 5% 
growth at retirement. As you can see, by taking the Tax Free Cash amount you are 
entitled to, this will result in you receiving a higher pension value at retirement as it 
allows you to redirect your contributions that would have been focused on repaying 
your debt back into your pension whereby you will receive tax relief.() 
Disposable income:
You do not have enough disposable income to service your needs
The SR also explained that the advice was based on a drawdown equivalent hurdle rate 
rather than the critical yield assuming a full pension and / or TFC at 65;
The gross investment return after charges required to match your scheme's benefits 
based on the agreed planning assumptions is 2.6% per year. Therefore, we believe 
that a transfer could be able to increase the overall pension and tax free cash 
benefits available to you. It qualified this figure by explaining; The difference 
between this and the critical yield calculated by the TVAS arises because the TVAS 
assumes you will use the CETV to purchase a poor value annuity and that there will 
be no change to today's low interest rates. In our opinion this is an unlikely outcome 
and therefore the critical yield shown by the TVAS may be far higher than the return 
you need.
It confirmed that Mr Ms attitude to risk had been assessed as balanced and discussed his 
tolerance for loss;
We discussed your ability to accept losses during the longer term investment 
process. You accepted that you were prepared to accept some losses in the short 
term to achieve longer term gains and indicated that losses over 20% would make 
you feel uncomfortable.
It explained the investment proposition:
My Recommendation
() We do not provide any advice in relation to the funds and investments within 
your new plan as this recommendation will be made by [Firm C].
Attitude to Risk
We have recommended a portfolio based on the risk profile you have completed. The 
portfolio will be designed to provide growth, and gradually reduce your risk exposure 
as you come to the age at which you expect to retire (which you have stated is 65).
Based on the answers you provided in your risk profile we believe you have a 
balanced attitude to risk.Future Assumed Investment Returns
Based on your risk classification we provided an estimated future average gross 
return before initial and on-going advice charges and plan charges of 6.13%. This is 
based on a model portfolio for an investor with your risk profile generated by our 
investment committee's research.
  
Tolerance and Capacity for Loss
() you were prepared to invest in illiquid fixed term investments to reduce volatility. 
This was provided that this was part of an investment strategy that matched your 
overall attitude to risk and increased the likelihood of consistently achieving your 
required annual average gross returns before initial and on-going advice charges and 
plan charges of 6.13%.
Your Fund Recommendations
() We would recommend that you invest in the following fund asset classes, 
however [Firm C] will contact you in due course to discuss the actual fund investment 
portfolio. Please note until this time, your funds will be initially invested in 100% Cash 
Deposit with Novia upon transfer.
Cash 10%
Equities 60%
Other fixed interest 12%
Property 0%
Secured structured bonds 18%
Portafina charged an initial advice fee of 5% of the transfer value, of which 2% would go to 
Firm C as part of their introducer arrangement. Firm C would provide the investment advice.
The suitability report enclosed a Declaration which Mr M signed and included the following 
statements;
I fully understand what the Critical Yield is and I am aware that it is unlikely that my 
recommended scheme is going to achieve a growth rate of 13.5% to match the 
guaranteed benefits held with [his OPS].
I am aware that I will lose the Guaranteed Pension of £1,100 pa and a lump sum of 
£7,331 payable from age 65 by transferring my benefits to an alternative pension 
arrangement, and understand that I will be worse off in retirement.
I fully understand that by taking my pension benefits now, my State benefits may be 
affected.
I am fully aware of the charges and fees.
Mr M accepted Portafinas recommendation and the SIPP was established. The OPS  
transfer completed for £42,734 and Mr M took his maximum TFC of £10,677.  The SIPP 
servicing agent was changed from Portafina to Firm C. Firm C then advised Mr M to invest 
almost 50% of his fund in several UCIS. 
In 2019 Mr M complained to Portafina about the advice to transfer and its failure to realise 
that the investments made by Firm C were unsuitable for a balanced risk investor. Portafina 
rejected the complaint. It said the transfer met Mr Ms objectives and the risks were 
explained. The hurdle rate of 2.6% was lower than the expected growth rate of 6.13% and 
the critical yield of 13.5% wasnt relevant because it was based on buying an annuity, which 
wasnt Mr Ms intention, and because he was in ill health, Mr M would have the option of 
buying an enhanced annuity with the fund. Portafina said that the FCA consultation paper from March 2018 confirmed that it was 
possible for one firm to advise on the transfer and for another to advise on the subsequent 
investments. As such, Portafina confirmed that it forwarded Mr Ms complaint onto the 
liquidators of Firm C.
Mr M brought his case to this service. An investigator reviewed matters and thought the 
complaint should be upheld. In summary in the investigator said:
Portafina should have had a clear understanding of the intended underlying 
investments which it couldnt have had as the investments were to be recommended 
by Firm C. The FSA had issued an alert in 2013 explaining that the advising firm 
(Portafina) were responsible for ensuring the transaction as a whole was suitable, 
including the investments made by another firm
Portafina couldnt accurately determine the assumed investment return without 
having knowledge of the proposed investments
the critical yield of 10.5% required to match the transferred benefits at age 65 was 
too high and didnt account for all the applicable fees and charges
the recommendation of using the existing debt repayment to fund future pension 
contributions wasnt financially viable because Mr M didnt have any disposable 
income 
the costs of transferring to repay debt of about £2,000 wasnt justified
the advice gave no consideration to the interest only mortgage or a strategy for 
repaying it
Mr M didnt benefit from more control over death benefits because Mrs M lost out on 
a guaranteed 50% dependents pension
if Mr M was in ill health he may have benefitted from an enhanced pension from his 
OPS
Portafina didnt agree and argued that it conducted appropriate due diligence on Firm C and 
werent responsible for its investment advice. It said it set out in the SR what it believed to be 
the likely investment proposition based on Mr Ms attitude to risk and the advice was based 
on this. The transfer met Mr Ms objectives, especially paying off debts. Any monetary award 
should consider any award available from the FSCS following the liquidation of Firm C.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering the complaint, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. Having done so. Im upholding the complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Portafina recommended that Mr M transfer his OPS to a SIPP but it says that, although it 
assessed his attitude to risk, it didnt provide advice as to the investments within the SIPP 
because this was being provided by Firm C. 
Mr M accepted the recommendation and Portafina arranged for the SIPP to be set up, the 
OPS to be transferred and for the funds to be fully invested in cash and the servicing rights 
to be transferred to Firm C. Firm C subsequently arranged for the SIPP funds to purchase a 
number of investments, several of which were unregulated. Ive thought about this carefully. Even if it wasnt specifically intending to advise on the 
investments, Portafina needed to have an awareness of the intended investments in order to 
give suitable advice. This remains the case even if Firm C was actually providing that advice. 
It is, in my view, reasonable to expect a firm that is assessing the suitability of a pension 
transfer to consider the overall investment strategy that applies to that proposed transfer,  
including a broad understanding of the proposed investments, before it could determine 
whether the transfer was in Mr Ms best interest.
The regulators position 
In 2013, the regulator at the time issued an alert about advising on pension transfers with a 
view to investing pension monies into unregulated products through a SIPP. This alert was 
issued because it had come to the regulators notice that some firms were adopting advice 
models which didnt comply with the existing obligations and so there was a potential for 
consumer detriment. The regulator made its position clear in the alert, where it said: 
The FSA's view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of  the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given 
on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and 
other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes, it should 
be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a 
pension transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the 
pension transfer must take account of the overall investment strategy the customer is 
contemplating (...)
if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in 
unregulated items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the 
regulated elements
In the scenario set out in this alert, the other firm involved was unregulated. In Mr Ms case, 
Firm C was authorised to conduct investment business under its AR agreement with Firm S. 
Portafina may believe that this absolved it from its duty to assess the suitability of the 
investments, but it couldnt separate out the two elements; its advice on the suitability of the 
transfer had to include the suitability of the underlying investments. 
The position on this is further supported by a subsequent alert issued by the regulator, on 28 
April 2014, regarding pension transfers and switches. Again, this alert didnt follow the 
introduction of new regulations but restated the existing position.
The regulator said it was:
alerting firms to our requirements when they give advice on self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPS), giving our view and key messages. It included the following: 
Where a financial  adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will 
transfer or switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest 
through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the 
advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the 
customer, then the overall advice is not suitable. If a firm does not fully understand 
the underlying investment proposition intended to be held within a SIPP, then it 
should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will not be able to 
assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.The alert went on to reiterate that suitable advice generally required consideration of the 
overall transaction, that is the vehicle, the wrapper and the expected underlying investments 
and whether or not such investments were regulated products. It said, despite the initial alert 
(in January 2013), some firms continued to adopt a model which purportedly restricted 
advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. But advising on the suitability of a pension transfer 
or switch couldnt reasonably be done without considering the existing pension arrangement 
and the underlying investments intended to be held in the SIPP. 
Im conscious that both the 2013 and 2014 alerts were issued prior to Mr M receiving advice 
and so Portafina ought to have known that it needed to do this. 
As it told Mr M it wasnt providing any advice on the underlying investments, Portafina 
appears to have been under the impression that this enabled it to provide advice on a 
restricted basis; this wasnt right. Its advice on the suitability of the transfer had to include the 
suitability of the underlying investments. I dont think there was any ambiguity regarding the 
regulators position on the matter. 
These alerts dont have the status of a Handbook rule as such, nonetheless I consider it to 
be a relevant indicator of the standards expected by the regulator in these circumstances, as 
well as a helpful indicator of what good industry practice looked like at the time. And both 
alerts specifically referred to the regulators overarching Principles for Businesses (PRIN) 
and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which Portafina was subject to. And with reference 
to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations under these 
precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it wouldnt 
be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so. 
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Mr M under the regulatory system. So, even if it told Mr M it wasnt providing advice 
regarding the investments, this didnt absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was 
providing was suitable - again, this had to include consideration of how Mr Ms funds would 
be invested. 
COBS 9.2 required Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr M. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain enough 
information from Mr M to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. 
COBS 9.2.2R included the following wording: 
(...) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, 
where relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the 
investment, his preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of 
the investment. 
So as part of the fact-finding process Portafina had to understand Mr Ms objectives and the 
related risks. It wasnt free to ignore how Mr Ms funds were going to be invested irrespective 
of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to be inextricably 
linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a transfer 
without knowing what Mr M would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind seem 
reasonably possible. After Portafina gave advice the agency for Mr Ms SIPP was transferred to Firm C and it was 
Firm C that recommended the high risk and Illiquid investments. However, the alerts make it 
clear that a firm that is asked to advise on a pension transfer or switch needs to be aware of 
the intended investments before it advises on the transfer, in order to provide suitable 
advice. So, Portafina shouldve requested this information from Firm C before providing 
advice. And, as confirmed in the alert, if it didnt fully understand the underlying investment  
proposition intended to be held within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension 
transfer or switch at all.
I acknowledge that Portafina believes that the alerts have been applied to Mr Ms case 
erroneously as the scenarios differ, insomuch as the references an unregulated introducer 
fopr the investments, whereas Firm C was authorised. But I dont agree that the alert was 
limited to those very specific circumstances.
I can see that the alert makes it clear that suitable investment advice generally requires
consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the suitability of the 
overall proposition when advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for investment in other 
products (such as the SIPP in Mr Ms case). It further refers to the broadly applicable rules 
and guidance that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must first take time to 
familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. In saying that, I dont 
think the FCA intended that in pension transfer cases, regard to the overall proposition was 
only required where the introducing firm was unregulated, or where the assets contemplated 
included unregulated investments. In my view, the regulator was indicating that these are 
standards that have broad application to pension transfer advice, but pointing out that it had 
particular concern about cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the 
consumer at risk. I think the alert is relevant to firms in the position of Portafina in this case. 
It indicates such firms should not be giving advice on a restricted basis. It didnt consider a 
firm could reasonably separate out the two elements of the transaction; its advice on the 
suitability of the transfer should include consideration of the suitability of the
underlying investments.
The regulators rules do allow for situations where two regulated firms are involved. In 
particular, the rules state: 
COBS 2.4.6R(2).
A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook that requires 
it to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by another person.
COBS 2.4.8G
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to 
rely on information provided to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or a 
professional firm, unless it is aware or ought reasonably to be aware of any fact that 
would give reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of that information.
These rules essentially mean that a firm can rely on information provided to it by another 
regulated firm, where it is reasonable to do so. The rule is stated to apply to situations where 
a firm is required by a handbook rule to obtain the information in question from another 
person. 
However, in this case, Portafina failed to obtain any information from Firm C about the 
intended investment proposition for Mr M before Portafina issued its suitability report. Firm C 
wouldve needed to gather details of Mr Ms circumstances before referring him to Portafina. So I think its likely that Firm C had in mind a portfolio of intended investments before 
Portafina was involved, or at the very least at the same time as when Portafina were 
involved. Firm C advised Mr M to invest a significant proportion of his SIPP in unregulated 
investments. Portafina may say it didnt know this was Firms Cs intention - but it would 
have, had it found out about the intended investments as I consider it was required to do; 
they were part and parcel of the transfer. But it appears that in giving its advice to transfer, 
Portafina failed to check how Firm C broadly proposed to invest Mr Ms money. 
I accept that as a result of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice. However, I dont agree that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Mr Ms appointed financial adviser, it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable 
advice and act in Mr Ms best interests. And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness of 
where Mr Ms funds would be invested. 
Portafina may say it completed due diligence checks on Firm C before agreeing to accept 
client referrals from it. But it wasnt enough for it to rely on general information provided to it 
at the start of its relationship with Firm C; that wouldnt have been a reasonable basis for 
Portafina to have assessed the suitability of the pension transfer for Mr M. 
In my view, it shouldve done more to ensure it understood the types of investments Firm C 
would be recommending, and in particular in connection with Mr Ms proposed transfer. As 
Ive said, I wouldve expected Portafina to request details upfront from Firm C as to the 
intended portfolio for Mr M. Without this information. Im not satisfied that Portafina could 
reasonably assess the suitability of the transfer. 
Had Portafina requested this information and it had been advised that Firm C intended to 
invest Mr M in a number of UCIS, then it couldve questioned this, given how at odds it was 
with his established attitude to risk. And in the event that Portafina had been misled by Firm 
C as to the proposed investments, then its likely Mr M wouldve realised that the 
investments Firm C went on to arrange differed to those Portafina had based its suitability 
assessment on. And Mr M couldve taken action accordingly. 
All in all, as it was, Portafina failed to take adequate steps to consider the investment 
proposition for Mr M as a whole when assessing the suitability of Mr Ms proposed transfer 
away from his OPS plan. Im satisfied that if the appropriate steps had been taken to ask  
Firm C for its investment proposition, Portafina wouldve seen that the proposed investments 
were unsuitable for Mr M and the recommendation to transfer his pension on that basis 
wouldnt have been given.
As it is, Portafina assessed Mr M as having a balanced ATR and its suitability report 
outlined its recommendations based what it believed would be Firm Cs model portfolio for 
an investor with Mr Ms risk profile. However, I dont agree the model portfolio was suitable 
Mr Ms attitude to risk in any event. I say this because the model portfolio suggested that 
18% of the pension fund should be invested in secure structured bonds. These are 
described in the suitability report as asset back debt securities that are issued for a fix term. 
The report goes on to explain that these are not covered by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS). And that there are credit risks - due to the possibility of the 
company borrowing the money going into default - and liquidity risks. In my view, this puts 
them at the higher end of the risk spectrum and would generally mean that theyre unsuitable 
for an inexperienced investor, with a fairly modest pension fund. So, Im not satisfied that a 
portfolio that wouldve invested 18% of Mr Ms pension fund in unregulated and potentially 
illiquid funds, wouldve been suitable for a client in Mr Ms position.Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Mr Ms funds were invested. Portafinas recommendation that he transfer to 
a SIPP in the first place is an important consideration. And were it not for the transfer and 
Portafinas incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding this, Im not persuaded 
Mr M wouldve ultimately gone on to invest as he did.
The advice to transfer the OPS
I think its important to explain that regardless of anyone elses part in the matter Portafina 
had to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. These include the overarching 
Principles for Businesses. Principles 1 (integrity), 2 (skill, care and diligence), 6 (customers 
interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular relevance here. 
The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out the rules 
regulated businesses have to follow. At the relevant time, COBS 9.2.1 R required Portafina 
to take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation was suitable for Mr M. It 
had to obtain information as to Mr Ms knowledge and experience (relevant to the specific 
type of designated investment), his financial situation and investment objectives. 
As set out above, COBS 9.2.2R required Portafina to gather sufficient information from Mr M 
to ensure the recommendation met his objectives, he could bear the risks involved and he 
had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the 
transaction. 
Under COBS 2.1.1R Portafina had to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client." 
Having considered whether, in recommending the transfer, Portafina reasonably had regard 
to the expected investment proposition for Mr M as a whole, Ill now consider whether the 
transfer ought to have been recommended in any event. In other words, even if Firm Cs 
expected investment proposition was suitable for Mr M, was the transfer likely to have been 
suitable anyway? 
It is clear from Mr Ms background and circumstances that he satisfied the regulators 
definition of a retail client i.e. he was neither a professional client or an eligible counterparty. 
So, he was entitled to rights and protections afforded to retail clients and was clearly reliant 
on the advice given to him. From the evidence I have seen there is also no suggestion 
whatsoever that he was either high-net worth or a sophisticated investor.
Defined benefit OPSs typically have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving up these 
benefits and guarantees and subjecting future pension income to the risks associated with 
unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be shown that it was 
clearly in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS guidance (COBS19.1.6G) at the 
time of the advice, stated: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm 
should start by assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should 
only then consider a  transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, 
on contemporary evidence, that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests. Given what the regulator says, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
Therell need to be good reasons why a transfer will be in the consumers best interests. And 
generally, a transfer will only be in the consumers best interests if theres a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account the individuals particular circumstances. 
At the time of the advice Mr M was approaching age 63 and a full time carer for his wife. 
They had an interest only mortgage on their home with a few years remaining. Mr M has 
said that he expected to have to sell his home to repay the mortgage when the mortgage 
term ended and from what Ive seen this looked a realistic prospect. It was assumed he 
would be entitled to a full state pension from age 65, but this wasnt confirmed by Portafina 
but shouldve been as part of his duty to know his client. Aside from his OPS he had no 
other pension provision or assets. So its clear to me that the OPS was Mr Ms most 
valuable, if not only, asset. The OPS provided a guaranteed income at retirement with 
increases, as well as a dependants pension. Based on this I think Portafina should have 
recognised the significance of Mr Ms OPS and proceeded with caution.
Transferring his OPS meant that Mr M would be losing his guarantees and instead relying on 
investment performance from a new scheme. But I dont think his situation lent itself to taking 
such risks. He had no realistic prospect going forward of improving his financial situation in a 
meaningful way. In fact, it was likely that his situation would worsen if he did end up having 
to sell his home to repay the mortgage. He may have received his full state pension at 65, 
but this was assumed.
Based on a risk profile Mr M completed, Portafina said it believed he had a balanced attitude 
to risk. But the answers to a number of the questions leant themselves to a low attitude to 
risk. For example he said people who knew him would describe him as a cautious person; 
he would generally look for safer investments even if that meant lower returns; he didnt find 
investment matters easy to understand. 
An important factor in assessing attitude to risk is to also consider a consumers capacity for 
loss. In assessing this Portafina said that Mr M was prepared to suffer a potential reduction 
in pension of up to 10% in exchange for the flexibility that could be achieved by transferring 
his OPS, and that he was prepared to accept losses of up to 20% in the short term to 
achieve longer term gains.
As stated, his OPS was Mr Ms only meaningful asset. He didnt even have a way of 
repaying his mortgage and could end up losing his home because of this. So I dont think he 
had any capacity to withstand the risks of losing the guarantees of his OPS, and Portafina 
shouldve acknowledged this. If it had done so, I think it wouldve been clear to them that 
transferring would result in an unsuitable outcome for Mr M. Even if Mr Ms attitude to risk 
was balanced, I dont think he had the capacity to absorb any level of risk.
An important part of assessing the viability of an OPS transfer is a careful analysis of the 
investment returns required from any investments in the receiving scheme, to match (let 
alone exceed) the benefits that are being given up by transferring out of the OPS. And that 
needs to be done in conjunction with other important considerations, including the investors 
attitude to risk, financial circumstances and objectives. 
Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator required a business arranging a pension transfer to:
1. compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme or 
stakeholder pension scheme, before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a 
defined benefits pension scheme;2. ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the retail client to be 
able to make an informed decision;
3. give the retail client a copy of the comparison, drawing the retail client's attention to  
the factors that do and do not support the firms advice, no later than when the key 
features document is provided; and 
4. take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firm's comparison  
and its advice.
COBS 19.1.3 goes on to say that in particular the comparison should:
1. take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
2. have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
3. explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would have 
to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up; and
4. be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested.
Portafinas advice was given at a time when there were no industry standard projection rates 
to assess the likelihood of the critical yield being achieved. But at the time the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal pension illustrations were 2% (low); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (high). Whilst advisers weren't required to refer to these rates when 
giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth 
rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this 
case.
In terms of the investment risk Mr M would be taking on by transferring, Portafina produced a 
Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report. This showed the critical yield required to match 
benefits from the OPS at age 65 was 13.5%, or 7.2% if he took his full TFC. So, assuming 
he took his full TFC, the transfer value needed to consistently grow at a rate of around 7.2% 
each year for Mr M not to be financially worse off by transferring. 
Portafina has argued that the critical yield isnt relevant, as it based its recommendation on 
the lifetime hurdle rate instead of the critical yield, which produced a much lower target of 
2.6%. This was much lower than the level of growth Portafinas own model portfolio was 
projected to return, 6.11% (and the regulators intermediate growth rate of 5%). But the 
hurdle rate is understated as didnt take account of all the charges. And its used determine 
the growth required to match the starting pension of the OPS, without increases and without 
a spouses pension being included. Mr Ms OPS provided a 50% spouses pension and it 
escalated in retirement. So the hurdle rate doesnt replicate the benefits Mr M was giving up, 
which, as can be seen from the above guidance, was what the regulator wanted businesses 
to do when comparing schemes.
In addition, in my view Mr M simply didnt have the financial capacity to withstand any risk, 
let alone the balanced level of risk upon which Portafinas expected investment growth of 
6.13% per year was based. 
I acknowledge that Portafina has said that Mr M did not intend to purchase an annuity at 
retirement and taking an income via drawdown was more suitable for his long term 
objectives. I do not accept this argument, as it ignores the importance of the critical yield in 
demonstrating the value of the benefits being given up and does not offer any reason as to 
why Mr M would not want to obtain a secure income in retirement. Other than his state pension Mr M had no other retirement income, let alone a guaranteed 
income. Even if Mr M had shown a preference for taking income flexibly, this had to be 
balanced against what was suitable advice. I dont agree that ruling out an annuity provided 
Mr M with as much flexibility as possible; it ought to have been assumed that there was a 
possibility he may take an annuity at retirement and Portafinas assessment of the benefits 
shouldve taken this into account, not ruled it out as it appears to have done.
If Portafina had based its assessment of Mr M on the critical yield as the regulator intended it 
to do, it would have shown that he was highly likely to receive a lower income in retirement 
by transferring. This was not made clear to Mr M and, in fact the opposite was stated in 
Portafinas suitability report:
The gross investment return after charges required to match your scheme's benefits 
based on the agreed planning assumptions is 2.6% per year. Therefore we believe 
that a transfer could be able to increase the overall pension and tax free cash 
benefits available to you. 
Furthermore, and as the regulator has made plain, when considering whether to make a 
personal recommendation to transfer away from a defined benefit scheme, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the defined 
benefits pension scheme as sufficient in itself (COBS 19.1.7B G). In light of that, I think its 
important to emphasise again that the starting point for the transfer advice in this case ought 
to have been that it was unsuitable (COBS 19.1.6G). So, I think Portafina ought to have 
made Mr M aware that it was in his best interest to preserve his OPS benefits. 
Mr M signed a declaration stating that he fully understood what the critical yield was, that it 
was unlikely that the recommended plan would match the guaranteed benefits from his 
OPS and that he would be worse off in retirement. But these statements contradicted the 
suitability report which said that Portafina believed the transfer could increase his overall 
pension and TFC. 
Portafina had a responsibility to ensure that Mr M understood the transaction he was 
entering in to and the risks involved. But its clear to me that Mr M was given incorrect and 
contradictory information and was reliant on it. I find it inconceivable that he wouldve agreed 
to be worse off if he truly understood what he was entering in to and the risks involved.
Ive thought about Mr Ms main objective, which was to release his TFC to pay off his debts, 
which were recorded as £2,250, much of which was credit card debt with a high interest rate. 
I accept that costly debt should be repaid if possible, but this needs to be weighed up with 
the disadvantages of transfer. The amount of debt was relatively small compared to the 
transfer value and potential TFC. Mr M has said he was getting by and managing his debt 
repayments each month. I note also that he only had two years to go until the scheme 
retirement age of 65 if early retirement from the OPS wasnt appropriate. 
Death benefits were important as Mr M wanted to provide his wife with the best possible 
widows pension should he die before him, but the OPS provided a guaranteed 50% 
dependants pension. After TFC and charges following the transfer, even if Mr M didnt 
access any more of the fund and with reasonable growth I dont think the fund wouldve been 
anywhere near big enough to improve on the guaranteed dependants pension that was 
already available.The suitability report did cover alternatives to transferring, including that taking benefits from 
the OPS instead wouldnt be in Mr Ms best interests because of the possible effect on State 
Benefits, which I accept as potentially valid. But, again, this needed to be weighed up with 
the disadvantages. Mr M was 63. Although the normal pension age of the OPS was 65, it 
isnt unusual for an unreduced pension to be available earlier, but Portafina didnt check this 
or set out how taking TFC and income from the OPS early could affect Mr Ms financial 
situation instead of transferring. He had an interest only mortgage without any plan to repay 
it and expected to have to sell his home when the mortgage term ended. This was clearly a 
financial priority which as Mr Ms financial advisor, Portafina shouldve addressed, but it 
didnt. I dont think it went nearly far enough in addressing all of Mr Ms financial needs and 
exploring the potential alternatives to find the best solution. 
Mr M wasnt a financial expert and was heavily reliant on Portafina for its advice and 
expertise. So, I think it needed to do more than just note Mr Ms objectives and agree to 
facilitate the transfer as the best way of achieving them, especially when there might be 
viable alternatives to meeting those goals.
Regarding the risks associated with its recommendation, I do accept that Portafina covered 
some of these. However, disclosure isnt the same as suitability and in my view Portafina 
shouldnt have gone on to recommend the transfer. 
In summary I dont think the advice for Mr M to transfer was suitable, which I think presented 
a level of risk well above what Mr M shouldve been advised to take. Accordingly, I dont 
think it was in his best interests. Although Portafina provided Mr M with information about the 
transfer, I dont believe it was as clear, comprehensive and balanced as it needed to be for 
him to make an informed decision about whether to transfer.
Would Mr M have gone ahead with the transfer anyway?
Ive thought about whether, if hed been correctly advised by Portafina not to transfer, Mr M 
would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway. Having carefully considered all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont think he wouldve done. I dont believe he had an 
overriding desire to access his TFC and even if he did, he couldve taken immediate benefits 
from his OPS. 
I believe it was clear from the outset that Mr M was seeking to rely on the comprehensive 
information and suitable advice he reasonably expected to obtain from Portafina. And I think 
Portafinas failings in appropriately assessing the overall suitability of the transaction it was 
recommending played a pivotal role in his decision to transfer. I think its unlikely that Mr M 
wouldve opted to transfer when he did if the risks and disadvantages had been clearly 
presented.
As a professional adviser which, unlike Firm C, was authorised to provide transfer advice, 
Portafinas recommendation wouldve carried significant weight and could, I believe, have 
dissuaded Mr M from proceeding with the transfer and subsequent investments. I accept its 
possible Mr M may still have wanted to go ahead anyway. But I think, at the very least, if 
Portafina had advised against this, that would have made him think about things. 
Alternatively, had Mr M proceeded against such advice, Portafina couldve discharged its 
professional responsibility to him appropriately. For example, it couldve treated him as an 
insistent client. However, theres nothing to indicate Mr M wouldve acted against the advice 
hed been given. Is Portafina wholly responsible for Mr Ms loss?
In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr M when assessing the suitability of the proposed transfer meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course of action it recommended as a solution to Mr Ms 
needs was being made on a sound basis. As a result of these shortcomings, Mr M has lost 
his guaranteed pension income and it seems to me that Firm C was in effect given the 
freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how Mr Ms SIPP was invested.
I think it was clear from the outset that Mr M was seeking to rely on the advice he reasonably 
expected to obtain from Portafina. And I think Portafinas failings in appropriately assessing 
the overall suitability of the transaction it was recommending played a pivotal role in Mr Ms 
decision to transfer.  
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mr M are as a result of the inappropriate 
advice provided by Portafina. And had it not been for this unsuitable advice, I dont believe 
he would have gone ahead with the transfer of his OPS or the subsequent UCIS 
investments.  
Ive considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for compensating 
the loss to Portafina. In the circumstances, though, I think apportioning responsibility to 
Portafina for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont accept that anything 
Firm C did was an intervening act which absolves Portafina of its responsibility for Mr Ms 
losses. 
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were in a business relationship 
in which each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring about a single 
outcome for clients  pension switch advice and investment advice. Portafina advised Mr M 
to transfer to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for his existing pension benefits to be 
switched over. 
I acknowledge that Firm C advised Mr M to invest a significant share of his SIPP funds in 
UCIS. But I think it is fair to hold Portafina fully responsible for Mr Ms loss. Ultimately 
Portafina recommended Mr M should transfer his OPS benefits to the SIPP, without ensuring 
the subsequent investments he would go on to make, through Firm C were suitable for him. 
Portafinas understanding that it could reasonably limit its advice to just the switch and the 
SIPP was wrong; it needed to consider the proposed investments too, even if Firm C was 
advising Mr M on the investments. It was only as a result of Portafinas involvement that Mr 
M transferred his OPS to the SIPP. Portafinas role was pivotal, since the eventual 
investments were fully reliant on the funds being switched over first; if that hadnt happened, 
he couldnt have invested as he did.
In terms of the FSCS, I am aware that, as a fund of last resort, the FSCS wont pay out on 
claims where it is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction, and it considers 
that firm might also be responsible for a consumers losses. Mr M hasnt complained about 
Firm C or Firm S and in light of their liquidation, there would be little point in him doing so. 
He has complained about Portafina and because of what I have said, it is, in my view, fair 
and reasonable that Portafina should account to him for the full extent of his losses.I think its important to point out that Im not saying Portafina is wholly responsible for the 
losses simply because Firm S and Firm C are now in liquidation. My starting point as to 
causation is that Portafina gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses Mr M 
suffered in switching his OPS to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to my mind, 
wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts of the case and my view of the fair and 
reasonable position. So, overall, I think apportioning responsibility to Portafina for the whole 
of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Portafinas unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M  
could have remained in the occupational scheme. Portafina must therefore undertake a  
redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision. 
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Ms contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).  
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date 
Portafina receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must  
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes  
Portafina to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition, Portafina should pay Mr M £300 for disruption to his retirement planning. My aim is to return Mr M to the position he would have been in but for the actions of 
Portafina. This is complicated where investments are illiquid (meaning they cannot be readily 
sold on the open market), as their value cant be determined. That appears to be the case 
here.
To calculate the compensation, Portafina should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as  
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take ownership 
of the investment. If Portafina is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for 
the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations 
should include anything Portafina has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to 
be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portafina may ask Mr M to provide an undertaking to account to it for the 
net amount of any payment she may receive from the investment. That undertaking should 
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what she receives. Portafina will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina asks Mr M to provide an undertaking,
payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
(should Mr M wish to move his investment portfolio) and further SIPP fees to be prevented, 
the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be 
achieved by Portafina taking over the investment, or this is something that Mr M can  
discuss with his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portafina pay Mr M an upfront lump sum equivalent 
to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct Portal Financial Services LLP 
to pay redress as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman