DRN-3764506
The complaint
Mr W complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) unfairly recorded a 
claim on his motor insurance policy as his fault and reduced his no claims discount (NCD).
There are several parties and representatives of Advantage involved throughout the 
complaint but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Advantage.
What happened
Mr W was involved in a collision with a third-party on a roundabout whilst driving his car. He 
made a claim on his motor insurance policy that he held with Advantage
Advantage accepted the claim.
The third-party said Mr W was at fault and provided a witness statement that said Mr W was 
at fault. Mr W said that the third-party was at fault. 
Advantage  settled the claim and it was recorded as a fault claim against Mr W. 
Mr W feels that Advantage have held him at fault for the accident without assessing liability 
properly.
As Mr W was not happy with Advantage, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and felt that 
Advantage had acted fairly in reaching its decision about liability. They said they had seen 
that Advantage had considered all the evidence to reach its decision. They said as Mr W did 
not have protected no claims discount included in his policy, that Advantage is entitled to 
reduce this in line with the terms of the policy.
As Mr W is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fault
Its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, as ultimately thats a matter for the
courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr Ws policy allows Advantage to settle claims as it sees 
fit. That means Advantage doesnt require his consent to decide how to settle a claim. So it 
may make a decision that he doesnt agree with. 
I looked at the terms and conditions of the policy and on Page 33 it says;
Your Insurer has the right to:
 Take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim
 Take legal action over any claim.
This confirms that Advantage are able to settle the claim as it sees fit.
However the decision should be fair, so I have looked at the evidence provided to see if 
Advantage have decided fairly.
I have seen that both Mr W and the third-party hold each other at fault. Mr W said the 
witness statement was not credible, but I have seen that there is evidence this witness was 
not known to the third party.
I have seen that evidence provided and considered by Advantage included, the statements 
from both Mr W and the third- party, a witness statement and an engineers report. 
When there is a dispute over who was at fault for an accident, insurers consider what a
court is most likely to conclude based on the evidence available. 
Advantage said it reviewed the accident circumstances and the evidence provided and said 
even if the third-party witness statement was taken out of the equation, there is no evidence 
to make this a non fault claim. It said it would still not be able to defend this in court and be 
able to recover its costs from the third-party. And it confirmed that it would settle this claim 
as Mr Ws liability. As such it has recorded it as a fault claim.
I think it was fair for Advantage to record this accident as fault against Mr Ws policy based 
on the evidence available to it. And therefore I do not uphold this part of his complaint.
No claims discount
I looked at Mr Ws policy and saw that no claims discount protection was not included. Mr W 
says he was never given the option to do this.
I looked at the information sent out to Mr W when he took out the policy and renewed it. 
Included at the beginning of the insurance invitation letter in March 2021 it says;
Please check everything's correct
Here's what's included in your pack - please read these details carefully, and if they aren't  
right tell us straight away.
And in the renewal letter sent in March 2022 it says;
Read and check your details 
A lot can change in a year, so check this cover still suits your needs and maybe think about 
shopping around.
Within the attached documents it details that the no claims discount  is not protected.
It is Mr Ws responsibility to check the details of his policy are correct and in this case he had 
the opportunity to ask for no claims discount protection to be added when he found it not to 
be included. Both when the policy started and when it renewed the following year.
On page 28 of the terms and conditions it says;
If you do make a non-recoverable claim, your level of no claims discount will be reduced at 
your next renewal, as detailed on your cover summary.
If youve chosen to protect your no claims discount, this will be shown on your schedule of 
insurance.I saw there are clear details included in the cover summary documents about how claims 
affect your no claims discount (NCD) .
Because of this Advantage are able to reduce Mr Ws no claims discount when his policy is 
due to renew, due to the non-recoverable claim being recorded.
I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Although I know Mr W will be disappointed, I dont uphold his complaint and do not require 
Advantage to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman