DRN-2664249
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the quality of service she received from Shawbrook Bank Limited 
(Shawbrook) in relation to the Easy Access account she opened with them. Mr B brings 
this complaint on behalf of Mrs B but for ease of reference, Ill refer to all submissions as 
being made by Mrs B herself.
What happened
 Mrs B opened an Easy Access account with Shawbrook in mid-May 2020 and deposited 
£5,000 into it. She tried to withdraw funds online but found she couldnt do so.
 
Shawbrook said this was because her nominated bank account (needed to pay in and 
withdraw money) had not yet been verified as required for anti-money laundering reasons. It 
later informed her that it had been verified, so she should be able to withdraw money online.
Mrs B tried again but found she still couldnt withdraw money online. Shawbrook didnt know 
why this was, but said it would look into it, and that she could withdraw money over the 
phone in the meantime. Mrs B didnt want to do this, she wanted to check that the online 
functionality worked. 
 
Shawbrook got back to Mrs B the next day and said it was a sort-code issue, and that it 
would tell her once it was resolved. Mrs B continued to try and withdraw money online in the 
meantime.
 Mrs B formally complained to Shawbrook about these issues in late May.
Shawbrook fixed the sort-code issue in mid-June. At this time Mrs B had tried unsuccessfully 
to make a withdrawal. Shawbrook found that Mrs B s nominated bank account had not 
actually been verified and asked for evidence to confirm that she was an account holder on 
the nominated account.  After some discussion, Mr B said that the withdrawal wasnt 
important and that he wanted the complaint resolved first. Mrs B provided the evidence three 
weeks later, and a withdrawal was successfully made to the nominated account.
In its response to Mrs Bs complaint in July, Shawbrook agreed that it had not provided a 
good service and offered £75 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered 
by Mrs B.
Mrs B wasnt happy with this, so she brought her case to this service. Our investigator 
thought that the compensation offered was enough and didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
 
Mrs B remained unhappy with the outcome, so the case has come to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs B when opened an Easy Access account with Shawbrook in May 2020, she 
wasnt able to make an online withdrawal.
Having deposited funds in her new account, Mrs B tried to withdraw £500 from the account 
via her online banking on two occasions but was unable to. She also tried three times the 
following day, but again was unable to make a withdrawal. Mrs B contacted Shawbrook and 
it  advised she couldnt withdraw the money yet because her nominated bank account hadnt 
yet been verified as required for anti-money laundering purposes. A few days after this, 
Shawbrook informed Mrs B that the account had now been verified so she should be able to 
withdraw the money online. However, Mrs B was still unable to make an online withdrawal. 
This wasnt the level of service she would reasonably have expected.
Mrs B contacted Shawbrook again. Shawbrook explained it was unsure of the cause of the 
issue but would look into the problem and keep her updated. It also advised Mrs B of the 
option of withdrawing the money over the phone, in case she wanted to access funds from 
her Easy Access account. This meant that Mrs B was not prevented from accessing funds 
because of the issue, so the core banking service was still available, if not all of the possible 
channels.
  
Mrs B explained that she only wanted to withdraw the money online to test the functionality 
of her online banking features, so the impact of the issue was not the same as if, for 
example, shed needed to move funds particularly quickly. 
Mrs B received a call from Shawbrook the following day explaining that the problem was due 
to a wider technical issue they were experiencing with certain sort-codes. Shawbrook 
advised Mrs B that it would get in touch once the situation had been resolved. 
Mrs B formally complained to Shawbrook on 19 May 2020.
Mrs B continued to attempt to withdraw money online in the meantime and tried a total of 14 
times from late May to mid-June 2020, although she had not been told the issue was fixed. I 
can understand that this would have increased her frustration, but, looking at it from both 
sides, I also think she couldve perhaps avoided some of this by waiting until she knew the 
issue was fixed, particularly as she has said that she just wanted to test the functionality. 
In mid-June, Shawbrook fixed the issue. Mrs B had tried to make an online transfer at this 
time. Shawbrook found that her nominated bank account had not been verified, so the 
transaction was unsuccessful again. Shawbrook contacted Mrs B to say that it needed 
evidence that she was a holder of the nominated bank account so that the withdrawal could 
be made. Shawbrook offered a couple of alternatives to resolve this quickly, but Mr B, who 
conducted most of the call, said they wanted to wait until their complaint was resolved, and 
that the withdrawal wasnt important. I can understand the frustration felt at this point given 
the issues Mrs B had encountered, but from what I could hear, Shawbrook was trying to put 
things right. 
   
After Shawbrook sent a reminder email requesting this evidence in early July, Mrs B 
provided it, and was then able to make an online withdrawal.  As Mrs B couldve provided 
the evidence some three weeks earlier, I cant fairly say that Shawbrook was responsible for 
her not being able to use the online functionality while it waited for this. 
Mrs B shouldve been able to use the online functionality when her account was opened, as 
her welcome letter said she could. Although there were also issues in relation to account 
verification, the main cause was the technical issue with sort-codes, which meant that it wasnt possible to withdraw funds online for about six weeks. Although Mrs B was only 
concerned with testing functionality, I can see that the situation was frustrating for her, and it 
was fair and reasonable that Shawbrook offered to compensate her for this. 
Mrs B also complained about the handling of her complaint. She complained about delays of 
one day in the production (as evidenced by the dates on the letters) of two letters sent in 
relation to her complaint, and also that they took longer than expected to arrive. But the 
delays were small, and the postal system can mean that letters take some time to arrive, so I 
dont regard these issues as significant failings on the part of Shawbrook. 
 
In summary, while online banking functionality was not available for a period when it 
shouldve been, as Mrs B only sought to test that functionality, rather than needing to access 
funds, the impact on her was limited.  And I think that Mrs B couldve avoided or limited 
some of the inconvenience and frustration she experienced as Ive outlined above. I note 
that Shawbrook caused some confusion over verification of the nominated account, and I 
can understand that this was frustrating for Mrs B. But I cant see that this caused material 
additional inconvenience. 
Shawbrook have offered Mrs B £75 compensation. While I understand the frustration she 
feels, I think that in the circumstances, this is fair, and I wont be asking Shawbrook to offer 
any more.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I dont require Shawbrook Bank Limited to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman