DRN-1151619
 
Complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business, Financial Insurance Company Limited 
(FICL) have accepted responsibility for the sale and by extension this complaint.
So Ive only referred to FICL during this decision.
Background
Mr B took out a store card in 1995. He was sold the PPI in connection with this card at the 
same time.
The PPI wouldve cost Mr B no more than £1 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
And as I understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mr B 
was off work sick or lost his job until the outstanding balance had been cleared. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.
Mr B didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I will go on to explain why.
Im satisfied Mr B was eligible for the PPI based on his age and circumstances at the time of 
the sale. 
FICL had to make it clear to Mr B that the PPI was optional and needed Mr Bs consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mr B says he never knowingly took PPI out and 
that it was added without his consent. 
I cant know for sure what happened during the sale and so Ive thought about what Mr B 
and FICL have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me 
decide what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive been given a copy of the credit agreement. This document has a section for 
PPI. I can see that Mr B was presented with two equally clear options to take or refuse PPI. I 
note the box to take PPI has been ticked. And it appears to me that if this box hadnt been ticked then PPI wouldnt have been applied to the account. Mr B says that he didnt know the 
box to take PPI had been ticked. 
I appreciate what Mr B has told us but I dont have sufficient evidence to conclude that its 
more likely that Mr B didnt tick the box for PPI. But even if he didnt and it was the 
representative who did tick the box on Mr Bs behalf, I note that Mr B signed this form. So he 
still had the opportunity to tell the representative if he wasnt happy with what had been 
ticked on the form before he signed it.  By signing the form, Mr B confirmed the selection. 
So based on what Ive seen, I cant say that its more likely that PPI wasnt presented as 
optional or that Mr B didnt choose to take it. 
From the information available to me and what I know of their sales practice at the time, I 
dont think FICL advised Mr B to take the policy out. This means they didnt have to take 
adequate steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mr B. So for example, they didnt have 
to ask about or take into account Mr Bs existing provisions or assess if the PPI was 
affordable for Mr B.
But FICL did have to give Mr B clear information so that he could make a proper choice 
about whether or not to take the policy out. I cant say that FICL gave Mr B all the 
information as they shouldve about the costs/benefits of the policy or the main exclusions 
and restrictions. 
So I have to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put Mr B off taking the 
policy out. I dont think it wouldve. I say this because:
 
The policy wouldve paid out in addition to, and for a longer period of time, than the 
statutory sick pay Mr B may have received. It wouldve covered 15% of his 
repayments every month until the outstanding balance had been paid off or he 
returned to work. And it wouldve provided the same cover if Mr B lost his job. 
 
Mr B didnt appear to have been affected by the more restrictive terms in the policy, 
such as those relating to preexisting medical conditions, which could have made it 
more difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy. Mr B has told us he 
may have been self-employed at the time of the sale. Some policies made it difficult 
for self-employed people to make a successful claim under the policy, but its unlikely 
that this was one of those policies.
 
Mr B couldve cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially if he no 
longer wanted it.
 
Although the policy was more expensive than other policies, I note that the monthly 
benefit was higher and the policy would have paid out potentially until Mr B returned 
to work.
 
So based on what Ive seen, I dont think Mr B was mis-sold this PPI policy. 
My final decisionI dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Financial Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman