DRN-3506053
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme and a personal 
pension plan to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable 
and believes it caused him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr A approached Portal in April 2016 having been referred by another company to discuss 
his pension and retirement needs. Advising Mr A over the phone, Portal completed a fact-
find to gather information about his circumstances and objectives. It established the 
following:
That Mr A was 55 years old, married with no financial dependents and hoped to retire at 
60;
That Mr A was a homeowner with a mortgage with an outstanding balance of £30,000;
That apart from his DB scheme and a further personal pension he had, Mr A had no 
other assets, savings or provisions for retirement;
Mr A had one credit card with an outstanding balance of £3,500;
Mr As attitude to risk (ATR) was noted as balanced and his capacity for loss as suitable;
Mr A had no previous investment experience and confirmed he found investment matters 
difficult to understand.
 
Mr A had the following pension arrangements:
A DB scheme with a former employer for which Mr A had 4 years of membership, 
stopping contributions when he left in 1998. The scheme had a normal retirement age of 
65. The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report for the scheme stated the transfer value 
was £47,159 and estimated that at age 65 Mr A would be paid an annual pension of 
£2,319. The scheme would also pay a spouses pension at 50%.
A personal pension which at the time of the advice had a transfer value of £35,487. The 
pension was subject to regular bonuses, a terminal bonus and had 61.58% protected 
TFC which would be lost on any transfer.
On 11 May 2016 Portal sent Mr A its letter of recommendation and its suitability report in 
which it advised Mr A to transfer both his DB scheme and the personal pension plan he had 
into a SIPP and investing the proceeds in fixed interest, equity, property and cash funds. The 
suitability report said Portal was making the recommendation so that Mr A could access flexi 
drawdown of his fund. It also noted Mr A had the following objectives which formed the basis 
of its reasons to recommending the transfer from his DB scheme: 
To have greater flexibility about how he accessed his pension in the future because Mr A 
wasnt sure he needed an income from his pensions;
To release cash to pay his credit card bill of approximately £3,500;
To maximise his tax-free cash (TFC) versus his current scheme;
Greater choice and flexibility when it came to death benefits;
To have ownership and control of his pension fund;
A willingness to take an investment risk.
The TVAS report assessed the critical yield (for the DB scheme) if Mr A retired at 60 to be 
24.9% if taking an annuity only or 20.2% if taking the full amount of TFC and a reduced 
annuity (both based on a joint life basis). No projections exist for the personal pension plan. 
Portals charges for arranging the transfer were 5% of the fund (cited as £3,729.30) along 
with an annual management charge of £75 plus 0.48% of the fund value per year.
Mr A proceeded with Portals recommendation and the transfer of his personal pension took 
place on 29 June 2016 followed by the transfer of his DB scheme on 1 October 2016. In 
total, £82,932.96 was transferred with Mr A taking £20,733.51 in TFC following the transfers. 
Mr A complained in May 2021 to Portal about the suitability of the transfer advice hed 
received. He said the guaranteed benefits he was giving up by transferring out of his DB 
scheme hadnt been properly explained to him. Mr A said that, as a consequence, hed been 
left with significantly lower benefits in retirement. Mr A also said that Portal hadnt discussed 
any alternative ways he could have met his objectives. He said that Portal should only have 
considered taking TFC from his personal pension plan. And, had he remained within the DB 
scheme he wouldve been entitled to a significantly higher level of benefits at retirement than 
he now would have. So, he said hed suffered a significant financial loss as a result of the 
unsuitable advice to transfer that hed received.  
Portal looked into Mr As complaint but didnt uphold it. It said it had prioritised Mr As need 
for flexibility and met his objectives by facilitating access to his TFC which was enough to 
pay off his credit card bill and give him peace of mind. Portal also said that Mr A didnt want 
an income from his pension in retirement so access to a drawdown account for flexibility was 
suitable for him. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Portals investigation, Mr A referred his complaint to our 
service. Our investigator looked into it and recommended that it was upheld. He said the DB 
scheme offered a guaranteed income for life and formed a significant part of Mr As total 
pension provision. He said the evidence gathered on the fact find indicated Mr A had a low 
capacity for loss which wouldve meant the security of the guaranteed benefits were very 
important to him. Our investigator thought that Portal had been wrong to base its 
recommendation to Mr A on the growth rate for the plan rather than the critical yield. He also 
thought that the transfer was not financially viable and that the objective of accessing TFC to 
pay off the credit card bill couldve been achieved by other means. Our investigator also 
thought Portal had overstated the importance of flexibility to Mr A and had given Mr A 
unsuitable advice to transfer his personal pension plan. Our investigator required Portal to 
compensate Mr A for the unsuitable advice itd given him. 
Portal disagreed with our investigators findings. It said in response that it had explained the 
critical yield and growth rates to Mr A and gave him an explanation about why the two 
figures were different. It said the comparisons it carried out indicated it believed the SIPP 
may match the investment growth identified. Portal disagreed that Mr A had no capacity for 
loss. And it said it had discussed alternative means of raising money to clear the credit card 
balance with Mr A as noted on the fact find and in the suitability report. Portal said itd 
advised Mr A of all the charges associated with the transfer and ongoing management of the 
SIPP. 
Our investigator thought about what Portal had said but wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind, so the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr As best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
The critical yield required to match Mr As benefits at age 60 was 24.9% if he took a full 
pension and 20.2% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. This compares with the discount 
rate of 3% per year for 4 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr As 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr A 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 
20.2%, I think Mr B was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than 
the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his attitude to risk. But 
crucially, I dont think that was made at all clear to Mr B in the suitability report.
Portal has provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr A wouldve been able to meet 
his needs after the transfer of the DB scheme despite the high critical yields identified as 
necessary to do so. Ive considered the cashflow models, which are based on a net annual 
return rate of between 5.66% and 5.94% over the last 10 years against a predicted required 
growth rate of 5.4%. Whilst Portal has said that the critical yield needed for the DB scheme 
was 24.9% it has based its recommendation that Mr A transfer on the growth rate required 
figure (5.4%) it identified.  But the growth rate is based on the assumption that Mr A is open 
to greater flexibility when taking an income from his pension and to taking additional 
investment risk. Unfortunately for Portal however, I dont think Mr As personal 
circumstances can reasonably be said to justify such assumptions. In addition Portal doesnt 
appear to have made any mention of inflation. And Mr As pension will be subject to an 
ongoing annual charge of £75 per year and 0.48% per year, plus an ongoing advice charge 
of 1%, meaning he would need to achieve higher growth to offset the extra charges.The DB scheme was a significant component of Mr As retirement income, an income that 
looked like it would be modest. Whilst I note Portals point that Mr A told it he didnt need to 
take an income in retirement I dont think it was reasonable for it to take such a statement at 
face value without exploring with Mr A why he thought that to be the case. I cant see any 
exploration of how Mr A intended to live after retirement at age 60 if he didnt take an income 
from his pensions. Nor can I see any basis for why someone like Mr A, who had no previous 
investment experience and had stated he found investment matters difficult to understand 
was classed as having a balanced ATR and a willingness to take on additional investment 
risk. I dont think the information from the fact-find supports such an assessment. Moreover, 
if Mr A was deemed as willing to take a risk then I would expect to have seen that explored 
further by Portal; but it wasnt.
In addition, Mr A had no significant assets or anticipated sources of income in retirement 
(other than any state pension) which supports Portals conclusion that he had suitable 
capacity for loss. I cant agree that Mr A had any capacity to absorb a loss on his pension 
transfer. 
Furthermore, Portals models show that the fund would run out before Mr A reached 80 
based on the regulators lower projection rate and before 95 using the mid projection rate. 
Portal has said that it made its recommendation based on a predicted growth rate of 5.4% 
which, it said, compared favourably to past performance of the funds in the previous 10-year 
period. But, as Portal will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance 
and so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be a more 
realistic indicator of expected fund growth in this regard in the long term rather than 
projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time. So, if returns 
were lower than Portal predicted, I think its clear Mr As funds were at risk of running out 
before he reached the average age of life expectancy (86). Whereas the DB scheme 
wouldve continued to pay him an escalating income for the entire remainder of his life 
however, long that is.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr As best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Portal 
has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think Mr A required flexibility in retirement. This is because based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I dont think he had a genuine need to access his TFC earlier than the normal scheme 
retirement age so he could leave his funds invested until a later date. I say this because one 
of Mr As stated objectives is to clear his credit card balance of £3,500. But Mr A was already 
paying that down at the rate of £150 per month which was, for him, affordable. He also had 
£200 per month left over after his usual expenses. Mr A is noted as telling Portal during the 
fact-find process that he didnt wish to take on any further lending or pay interest, nor to re-
mortgage. Portal also noted that Mr A didnt have enough disposable income to service his 
needs or sufficient assets to raise the cash he required to clear the loan. 
But I cant see that Portal fully explored alternative options with Mr A for dealing with the 
principal objective of the transfer namely to clear his credit card balance. And one of those 
options was to do nothing  to maintain the status quo by continuing to pay £150 off the 
balance every month. Afterall, he was already paying interest on the balance and wasnt 
mis- managing the account nor was he in arrears. And Mr A had a surplus income of £200 
left over (so I dont accept this demonstrates Portals statement that Mr A didnt have enough 
disposable income). And if hed continued to pay off the balance at the rate he was doing 
then it wouldve been completely cleared in just over 2 years time without giving up his valuable DB benefits. He also could have cleared it sooner if he had allocated any funds that 
remained each month to repaying this bill. However, I cant see that this option was explored 
by Portal with Mr A. And I think it ought to have been, given how important Mr As DB 
scheme was to his retirement  transferring it simply to access a relatively small sum ought 
to have been a last resort. And the TFC Mr A took was considerably higher than the credit 
card bill Mr A needed to clear. 
I also cant see evidence that Mr A had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. Portal noted one of Mr As objectives was greater flexibility about how he 
accessed his pension in the future because he wasnt sure he needed an income from his 
pensions. But Portal didnt explore with Mr A what he was going to live on if he didnt take an 
income from his pension. Portals recommendation could arguably be said to be reasonable 
if Mr A had other significant provision put aside for retirement but he didnt. Portal should 
have acknowledged Mr As lack of financial experience and knowledge and explained to him 
how important his DB pension benefits were. 
In addition, given Mr As circumstances and limited financial and investment knowledge it is 
very unlikely the he would remain capable of managing his investments into old age or be 
prepared to pay for ongoing advice given his limited retirement provision. Its reasonable to 
think that Mr A didnt understand the ongoing cost of having pension flexibility.
So, Im satisfied Mr A could have met his income needs in retirement through his DB 
scheme at 60. It is not documented on the fact-find what income Mr A needed per year in 
retirement. But under the DB scheme, Mr A was entitled to an annual income of £2,319 from 
the scheme at 60, which met his recorded objectives. He also had the personal pension plan 
Ive mentioned above. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP were likely an attractive feature to Mr A. But whilst I appreciate death 
benefits are important to consumers, and Mr A might have thought it was a good idea to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr A about what was best for his retirement provision. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Portal explored to what extent 
Mr A was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr A 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr A predeceased her. I dont think Portal made the value of this benefit 
clear enough to Mr A. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
And as the cashflow analysis shows, there may not have been a large sum left as the fund 
may have been depleted particularly if Mr A lived a long life.  In any event, Portal should not 
have encouraged Mr A to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr A genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Portal 
shouldve instead explored the option of life insurance; but it didnt.Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr A. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I think Mr As stated desire for control over his pension benefits was both overstated and a 
generic objective. Mr A was by no means an experienced investor and I cannot see that he 
had an interest in, or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension fund on his own. 
Indeed Portals letter of recommendation states that the SIPP will need to be regularly 
reviewed. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr A  it was simply a 
consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Nor was the funding of Mr As DB scheme in a position such that he should have genuinely 
been concerned about the security of his pension. Furthermore, should the scheme ever end 
up moving to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), I think Portal should have explained that 
this was not as concerning as Mr A thought. As Ive explained above, Mr A was still unlikely 
to match, let alone exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if he transferred out 
to a personal pension.
Suitability of investments
I dont agree with how Portal defined Mr As ATR and I think it should have been lower. So 
the funds it recommended for him to invest werent, I think, suitable for someone with no 
investment experience. But as Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out 
of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr A it follows that I dont need to consider the 
suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr A should have been 
advised to remain in the DB scheme and so investments in unsuitable funds wouldnt have 
arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr A. But Portal 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr A might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr A needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
It follows that I dont think the advice given to Mr A was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr A was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr A shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to repay a debt that was affordable, and the potential for higher death benefits 
wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme for.
So, I think Portal shouldve advised Mr A to remain in his DB scheme.
I also have to consider whether Mr A would've gone ahead anyway, against Portals advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr A wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, if Portal had advised him it wasnt in his best interests to 
do so. I say this because Mr A was an inexperienced investor with a balanced attitude to risk 
and, aside from his state pension (presumably at age 67), his DB pension accounted for a 
significant portion of his retirement provision. So, if Portal had provided Mr A with clear 
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice. It is also worth stating that Ive seen no 
evidence that Mr A wouldve insisted on going against such advice had it been given. In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mr A for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Personal pension transfer
Portal also advised Mr A to transfer his personal pension into the SIPP alongside his DB 
scheme giving the same reasons for making the transfer. Portal hasnt provided any 
information to suggest it carried out financial comparisons of the benefits attached to Mr As 
personal pension. But its not unreasonable to conclude that it is very unlikely that the 
benefits would be matched. Thats because Mr As personal pension was subject to regular 
bonuses, a terminal bonus and had a protected tax-free cash allowance of 61.58%. These 
benefits were lost when the pension was transferred, and due to the projected growth rate of 
the SIPP, advisor charges and short time until Mr As desired retirement, I think its very 
unlikely that the amount lost from these benefits would be recovered. In particular, Mr A 
wouldve lost the very significant higher protected TFC amount, and this couldnt have been 
replaced through the SIPP. 
I therefore think that Mr As personal pension would be less valuable on retirement
after the transfer and he therefore should have been advised to leave his personal pension 
where it was.
Mr As representative has suggested that he should have only been advised to transfer the 
personal pension, instead of both his pensions, to meet his objectives but Im unable to 
agree. Mr As objectives were not a priority and could have been met by other means. Again 
Mr A was advised to transfer on the basis that he could access tax free cash that was
significantly higher than the debt he wished to pay off, reducing his income during retirement
that I simply dont think Mr A could afford. Its for this reason that I think the advice to transfer 
the personal pension alongside the DB pension was unsuitable. Mr A should have been 
advised to leave both pensions with their existing providers. And as a result of not being 
advised to do this, I believe his retirement provisions have been financially impacted.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the Portal to put Mr A, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr A would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme, and his personal pension, if suitable advice had 
been given.
What should Portal do?
To compensate Mr A fairly, Portal must determine the combined fair value of his 
transferred pension benefits as outlined in Step One and Step Two below. If the actual 
value is greater than the combined fair value, no compensation is payable.
fair value  step one
If Mr A had been given suitable advice, I think he would have remained in the DB scheme. 
Portal must therefore calculate the value of the benefits Mr A lost as a result of transferring 
out of his DB scheme in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
The calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr As acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr As 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr As SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
fair value  step two
Portal must compare the value of Mr As personal pension transferred to his SIPP with that 
of the notional value from the previous provider shown below to determine the fair value of 
Mr As personal pension if suitable advice had been given. I consider that there was no 
reason for Mr A to have moved his personal pension. It was invested in a with profits fund 
which met with this ATR. 
Investment 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Value of 
the 
personal 
pension 
fund 
transferredStill exists 
and liquidNotional 
value from 
previous 
provider
Date of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 90 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr A's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Portal should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Portal will need to determine 
a fair value for Mr A's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from 
fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using 
the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of 
compensation.
Any additional sums paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when they were actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other payment out
of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there are a large number
of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will accept if Portal totals all those
payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
The combined value of the sums produced by the above two steps is the combined fair 
value.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr As pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
In addition, the loss of the protected TFC Mr A had available to him under the personal 
pension should be quantified by valuing, at the date of calculation, the amount of Mr As 
personal pension fund in excess of 25% which would not have been subject to income tax 
had he not transferred. Portal should establish the marginal rate of income tax the extra 
taxed funds will suffer in future. As above, I think an assumption of basic rate income tax is 
reasonable based on Mr As financial circumstances. This should be factored into the sum 
ultimately paid to Mr M as compensation.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr A within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr A.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr A wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr A's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr A into that position. It does not mean that Mr A would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr A could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk 
attitude.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr A the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal to pay Mr A any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal to 
pay Mr A any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal pays Mr A the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as set 
out above on this balance to be paid to Mr A.
If Mr A accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr A can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman