DRN-2875286
The complaint
Mr M brings this complaint on behalf of the estate of his late wife, Mrs M. He is represented 
by his son. Mr Ms son says that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has 
unfairly refused a claim for terminal illness benefit for Mrs M. Instead of paying the claim, it 
has voided Mr and Mrs Ms policy altogether on the grounds of misrepresentation. 
What happened
In March 2001, Mr and Mrs M took out a term assurance policy with L&G. It offered them 
joint level life cover of £91,887 for a 23-year term, and included terminal illness benefit. 
In February 2020, Mr M made a claim to L&G for terminal illness benefit under their policy, 
as Mrs M was suffering from a type of end-stage kidney failure. 
L&G obtained medical information about Mrs Ms medical circumstances. This information 
showed Mrs M had a number of comorbidities including mental health issues, as well as 
previous history of drinking alcohol to excess and alcohol dependence syndrome. It 
therefore wrote to Mrs Ms GP for further information. 
In June 2020, L&G declined the claim. It spoke with Mr Ms son as requested, and sent a full 
letter to Mr M explaining its decision. It said that it would not be paying the claim and instead 
it would be refunding the premiums Mr and Mrs M had paid from the outset to Mr M, totalling 
£11,854.92. 
L&G explained that in the course of looking at the claim, it had reason to query some of the 
answers Mrs M had given on the policy application of 15 January 2001. For this reason, it 
had sought further medical evidence from Mrs Ms GP. And once this was received, L&G 
said it was clear that the information Mrs M had disclosed about her drinking history and 
health wasnt consistent with her actual medical circumstances.  
Specifically, it said Mrs M incorrectly answered questions relating to her alcohol 
consumption, advice to reduce that consumption and medication shed been prescribed. Mrs 
M had been to her GP at the start of January 2001 with pain in her upper abdomen. It said 
the GP record showed shed been drinking 6 pints per day and her liver felt enlarged on 
examination. Related blood tests also showed an abnormal liver function and Mrs M was 
placed on a type of alcohol withdrawal medication. 
L&G recognised Mr Ms sons explanation for his mothers mental health issues and that she 
had previously made an application for similar cover to L&G in 1999 without issue. However, 
it said that Mrs M had made a clear misrepresentation and it could not have insured her at 
all, if it had known about her actual health history.  
 
Mr Ms son complained. He said that since the claim had been made, L&G had failed to 
grasp the severity of his familys situation. Further, despite offering them £250 compensation 
for delays and poor communication, it continued to make administrative errors, including 
taking longer than it said to provide a claim outcome, failing to notify them upon receipt of 
information from Mrs Ms surgeon and not providing information about pursuing a complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
In respect of the claim refusal, he provided a response document with many pages of 
detailed submissions. Given the volume of information recorded, I wont be setting out the 
exact contents again here, but I have read it in full. In summary, Mr Ms son said:
Mrs M would never have knowingly misrepresented her medical circumstances;
it was disclosed to L&G that Mrs M had issues with mental health, her liver and her 
kidneys;
she gave L&G explicit consent to obtain her medical records as it had done in 1999, 
but this time it chose not to do so;
Mrs M should not be to blame if documents were missing from the previous GP 
report in 1999;
the application did not have space or an appropriate place to provide information 
about Mrs Ms stomach, liver or kidneys;
in any event, Mrs M couldnt have given detailed medical answers about her liver 
function or the medication she had been advised to take as she was not a doctor;
newer applications have specific liver, kidney and stomach questions  Mrs Ms 
application did not;
she instead had a vague question about organs and she did make a disclosure to 
that question;
at the time of the application there was no formal reference on Mrs Ms medical 
records that stated about reducing her alcohol intake or advice to that effect;
some of the furthest dated records relating to alcohol date back to 1987  Mrs M 
couldnt have reasonably been expected to recall back that far;
he questions how L&G could have been sure Mrs M was in a fit mental state to make 
the application;
in his view, the L&G application process sets up applicants in a way that they will fail, 
and promotes non-disclosure;
Mrs M was a vulnerable person and yet this was not recorded anywhere by the L&G 
adviser that sold the policy;
it is accepted by the Financial Ombudsman Service that vulnerable consumers may 
need extra help when taking out financial products and services;
such help would have been allowing Mrs M time to reflect on her answers to ensure 
she answered them more accurately;
Mrs M had now not consumed alcohol for some eight years  she has a reasonable 
and honest nature yet L&G believes it is acceptable to question her integrity;
Mrs Ms mental health was affected such that she shouldnt be measured on the 
same reasonable test when compared to someone who did not have her issues;
there is every possibility Mrs M wasnt of sound mind during the application process;
L&Gs questions were unclear, unfair, misleading and vague; 
L&G did have full access to Mrs Ms medical records (1999) and should have used 
these alongside this application to underwrite the policy, and this could have avoided 
the policy being cancelled now. 
In August 2020, Mr Ms son brought the complaint to this service as he had yet to hear from 
L&G. L&G issued a final response to the complaint on 14 August 2020. It rejected the 
complaint, and said it had fairly refused the claim and voided the policy. 
It said Mrs Ms medical records showed a long history of concerns with alcohol. In its view it 
was beyond reasonable doubt that Mrs M would have been advised to reduce her alcohol 
intake, particularly with the prescription of the type of alcohol withdrawal medication she was 
given. This was supported by medical records from March 2001 noting Mrs M was to stop 
alcohol. L&G also commented on Mr Ms concerns about the previous 1999 policy. It said that it had 
since transpired that information was missing from the 1999 report. Nevertheless, whether 
Mrs M read the 1999 GP report or not was not relevant. What is relevant was the answers 
she gave to the 2001 application, which was what L&G based its underwriting on  Mrs M 
had misrepresented on that application and failed in her ongoing duty to update L&G that 
she had been sent for liver function tests.
L&G did not accept the argument put forward by Mr and Mrs Ms son in relation to Mrs Ms 
mental capacity. He had pointed out areas where she did make disclosures and there was 
no medical evidence to suggest she lacked the ability to answer clear questions about her 
history  noting that the GP visit that was not disclosed was just two weeks before the policy 
application. Mrs M did answer some questions about her mental health on the application, 
and this contrasted from the vulnerability suggested by Mr and Mrs Ms son, particularly 
considering Mr M was party to the application.  
It disagreed that the policy questions were unfair and that Mrs M was denied the opportunity 
to declare her specific medical circumstances. It explained that there are more than 100 
different types of liver disease. If it was to ask an applicant to differentiate between them, 
and apply this same principle when answering questions about other organs and conditions, 
it would make policy applications unfair and unworkable.
It also disagreed that a fact-find document was required  as at the time of the application, 
the sale of a pure protection policy was a deregulated activity. The Financial Conduct 
Authority guidelines Mr M referred to were not relevant to the sale of the policy.  
In late 2020, Mrs M sadly passed away. An investigator from this service then reviewed the 
complaint. He initially thought it should succeed, though not in respect of the claim. 
He said that he disagreed Mrs M had misrepresented on the question about her alcohol 
intake. L&G took the view that the record of 2 January 2001 showed Mrs M was drinking 84 
units per week (6 pints per day). However, he noted that the record said she was "drinking 6 
pints  [not equal to] everyday everyday (sic) for last 6 3 years. He felt that the note was 
sufficiently ambiguous and could mean she drank 6 pints some days, given the mathematic 
symbol. This was borne out by the records from 10 January to 26 March 2001 (when the 
policy came into effect) showing Mrs M hadnt drunk at all following her prescription, and her 
past records showed her drinking fluctuated considerably. 
However, he did think she had misrepresented on the question about being advised to 
reduce her alcohol intake. Having noted Mrs M stopped drinking entirely after seeing her GP, 
he felt that it was likely she had been given advice to cease alcohol  and therefore she 
should have disclosed this to L&G. 
Our investigator went on to agree with the categorisation of the type of misrepresentation as 
deliberate or reckless since he felt Mrs M knew or must have known that she had been 
advised to reduce her alcohol intake previously. 
However, he did feel that L&G ought to provide Mr M with the option of retaining his cover  
the joint policy premiums had been returned to him, but he might have wished to keep his 
proportion of the policy running to its full term. On that basis, he felt one aspect of the 
complaint should succeed in relation to the loss of Mr Ms cover (subject to Mr M returning 
some of the premium refund), but the complaint regarding the claim should be rejected.  
Mr M disagreed. He said he wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. He also felt that L&G ought to have returned the premiums for the 1999 policy if it would not have 
insured Mrs M or paid a claim under that cover either. 
L&G said that it had provided Mr M with the option to retain the policy, but Mr Ms son had 
explained in two calls with L&G that Mr M wanted the full policy refund to be issued if the 
claim payment wasnt going to be made. L&G supplied a copy of the calls to the investigator. 
He recognised that Mr M had been offered to retain his cover, but this was not required. 
Neither party had any further comments to make. The complaint has now been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited a decision. Having 
reviewed all of the information carefully, I am not able to uphold the complaint. 
Before I go any further Id like to send my condolences to Mr M and his son. I realise they 
have been through a very upsetting time and I can see that Mr Ms son has explained a 
great deal about how vulnerable Mrs M was. I recognise that and I accept that she suffered 
with her mental health. But, in the circumstances I do not believe L&G could have insured 
Mrs M had it known the precise details of her medical circumstances. And for that reason I 
cant find it liable for a claim payment now. Ill explain my reasons below.  
In respect of the 1999 policy, I cannot consider Mr Ms sons points regarding a possible 
refund of policy premiums in the context of this decision. L&G has not had the opportunity to 
issue a final response to that matter as a fresh complaint, and it was not part of the 
complaint brought here. If Mr M wishes to pursue it, he will need to return to L&G separately 
in the first instance. This decision does not affect his rights to complain or pursue a different 
complaint here about the earlier policy, subject to the usual time limits and rules. 
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation. 
Industry guidance and relevant law on consumer disclosures in insurance contracts allows 
an insurer to consider if any misrepresentation occurred from the outset of a policy. If the 
circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may have 
occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at that 
time. That is what L&G has done. 
When it received information from Mrs Ms treating doctor following Mr Ms 2020 claim, it 
was drawn to her medical history because there was evidence of Mrs M having previously 
suffered from alcohol dependency, mental health and associated issues including records 
relating to overdoses. L&G therefore sent a targeted report to Mrs Ms GP for further 
information.  
Given the extent of Mrs Ms medical history, L&G says its underwriting rules meant it couldnt 
have insured her at all. Because of this, it cant pay a claim now. 
It therefore falls to me to look at what Mrs M was asked, and determine if I think she made a 
misrepresentation, upon which L&G could amend the terms it offered and/or avoid the policy. 
Though L&G was prompted to consider the medical evidence from 2020 when reviewing the 
claim, the correct position is to decide what ought to have happened at the time of the application. That means looking at what Mrs M was asked in 2001 against the relevant 
medical records up to that time. 
Mrs M was asked:
 
Have you ever been medically advised to reduce your alcohol consumption? and
What is your weekly consumption of alcohol?
Mrs M replied no and 6 units respectively. 
I believe that Mrs M should have answered the first question about alcohol intake positively. 
When she saw the GP on 2 January 2001 (just under two weeks before meeting with L&Gs 
adviser), her liver was palpable on examination by the GP. A discussion was had about how 
much she drank. And she was referred for liver function tests. These came back on 3 
January and 25 January 2001 and showed abnormal results. As a result, Mrs M was 
prescribed a type of alcohol withdrawal medication in February 2001.  
This was reviewed again on 6 March 2001, where the GP issued a further repeat 
prescription, told Mrs M to refrain from alcohol for six months and sent her for further liver 
function testing. 
In April 2001 (after the policy came into force), the GP record shows the result of the liver 
function tests showed an enlarged liver, due to alcohol consumption. 
I recognise that Mr and Mrs Ms son says Mrs M did disclose she had pain and stomach 
issues, as she was also provided Gaviscon at that time. But that was in relation to a different 
question on the policy application, and doesnt mean I can disregard the question above.  
Unlike Mr and Mrs Ms son, I do not accept that the question was confusing or that because 
there is not a medical record with the express wording reduce alcohol intake that Mrs M 
was right in saying no to the question. The recommendation to cease drinking for six 
months and the prescription for specific medication to assist with withdrawal from alcohol in 
my view cannot have taken place without discussion(s) about the need to reduce (or in this 
case stop altogether) Mrs Ms alcohol intake. While the paper records from that time are 
brief, it is clear that the GP medically advised Mrs M to reduce her consumption.  
I have also considered Mr and Mrs Ms sons explanation about the reasons for the incorrect 
answer to the question. I accept and recognise that Mrs M had a history of mental health 
concerns. And that she took care to disclose that to L&G. But, I have seen no clear or 
objective evidence that her issues or particular vulnerability would have led her to not 
appreciate the question about alcohol consumption but disclose that she had taken an 
overdose and to explain the type of treatment she received for mental health matters. 
Obviously it cannot be assessed now with any certainty why Mrs M did not make the 
disclosure. But she signed an application confirming the information was accurate and that 
the cover could be affected if any relevant medical information was missing. 
Further, the application expressly set out that I/we agree to immediately inform Legal & 
General, in writing, if any changes to the answers on the application form relating to my 
health, occupation, pastimes, or country of residence that occur before the policy starts, and 
understand that failure to do so may result in the contract being declared void and the 
benefits due under the policy not being paid.  
Both Mr and Mrs M signed that declaration. And the policy didnt come into force until 26 March 2001. By then, Mrs M had seen her GP twice and started on specific medication 
relating to alcohol withdrawal, along with ceasing to drink altogether as proposed. L&G 
needed to know about that. 
Though it did have sight of the 1999 medical report, without the right answer to the above 
question L&G did not have an accurate basis on which to underwrite Mrs Ms health. If it had 
received a different answer, it would have awaited the test results and those, combined with 
the advice, medication and Mrs Ms disclosed history of mental health issues would have 
sadly meant insurance terms could never have been offered to her. 
I therefore believe there was a misrepresentation. Under law, it is a qualifying 
misrepresentation if it affects the terms an insurer could have offered, which L&G has shown 
is the case here. 
Once thats been established, the law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts says 
that it should be classed as either deliberate/reckless or careless. The types of 
categorisations allow for different types of outcomes. 
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer should consider a proportionate 
remedy and this is what Aviva should have done. This means the outcome will depend on 
what the underwriting decision would have been had the misrepresentation not occurred at 
the time. If insurance could have been offered under different terms or for a different cost, an 
insurer can amend the contract to reflect this.
However, I do not need to go further and address the type of misrepresentation, because the 
outcome here is the same  whether the misrepresentation was either careless or 
deliberate or reckless, the underwriting decision would have been to refuse terms. 
On the same lines, I dont believe it is necessary for me to make findings about the other 
question relating to the disclosure of units of alcohol. That is because there was a material 
misrepresentation on the other question, and it would have changed the outcome of the 
insurance offer to Mrs M.  
Mr M could have been offered cover, and it is for this reason it was discussed during the 
calls with his son on 26 May 2020 and again in June 2020. However, Mr Ms son explained a 
full refund was required  and Mr M therefore did not keep the policy going for the remainder 
of the term to 2024. Accordingly, L&G correctly refunded the entire premiums as paid for the 
joint cover, on the same day it issued formal notice of the claim refusal to Mr and Mrs Ms 
son. 
That was the reasonable outcome in these circumstances, and it has done so in accordance 
with relevant industry guidance on misrepresentation in insurance policies, as issued by the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) within its Code of Practice on Misrepresentation and 
Treating Customers Fairly.  I cannot ask L&G to do anything more. 
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mr M, I do not uphold this complaint. L&G has reasonably voided 
the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and the 
estate of Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Jo StoreyOmbudsman