DRN-4242890
Complaint
Miss P has complained that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) irresponsibly provided her with an 
overdraft which it increased the limit on and then added interest fees and charges to her 
balance which caused financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Miss Ps complaint and thought that TSB ought to have 
realised that Miss Ps overdraft had already become unsustainable for her by January 2021. 
So it needed to refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Miss Ps overdraft from 
this point. 
After being told the case was being passed to an ombudsman, TSB said it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong but nonetheless was prepared to refund the fees in question. However, 
it wasnt prepared to add interest as Miss Ps account wasnt in credit until it paid a refund to 
her. 
As what TSB proposed to do wasnt in accordance with what the adjudicator recommended, 
the case was passed to me for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As TSB still maintains it didnt do anything wrong in relation to Miss Ps overdraft, Ive started 
by looking at whether or not it did.
TSB will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and industry codes of practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think TSB acted unfairly when it continued 
charging overdraft interest and associated fees from January 2021. By this point, it was 
evident Miss Ps overdraft had become demonstrably unsustainable for her. A cursory look 
at her statements leading up to this period shows that Miss P was hardcore borrowing and 
also had a loan with at least one high cost lender. 
In reaching my conclusions, Ive seen what TSB has said about Miss P being paid weekly 
distorting the overall picture and that she would have seen a credit balance had she been 
paid monthly. This may or may not have been the case. But the fact remains that Miss P was 
continually overdrawn and did regularly go over her limit. And, in my view, this doesnt alter 
the fact that TSB ought to have been aware of the issues Ive highlighted above.  
So I think that by January 2021 TSB should have stopped providing the overdraft on the 
same terms and treated Miss P with forbearance rather than adding even more interest, fees 
and charges on the overdraft. As TSB didnt react to Miss Ps account usage, and instead 
simply continued charging in the same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably 
towards her. 
Miss P ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges at a time when her overdraft 
was already unsustainable. So Im satisfied that Miss P lost out because of what TSB did 
wrong and that it should put things right.
Miss Ps account may only have permanently gone into credit once TSB paid her refund into 
her account in May 2023. But this doesnt change the fact that Miss P might not have been 
overdrawn had the charges TSB shouldnt have added not been added in the first place. I
n these circumstances, I think that it would be fair and reasonable for TSB to put things right 
for Miss P in the way that I direct below.
Fair compensation  what TSB needs to do to put things right for Miss P
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ps complaint for TSB to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ps overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from January 2021 onwards (and not already part of any previous 
refund) are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made TSB should contact Miss P to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Miss P is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with TSB to reach a 
suitable agreement for this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Miss Ps credit file, it should reflect what would have been 
recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in 
January 2021. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss P along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then TSB 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ps credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TSB to take off tax from this interest. TSB must give 
Miss P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ps complaint. TSB Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman