DRN-2975553
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy with the life cover sold to her by Santander UK Plc.
What happened
In 2000, Mis S took out a mortgage with Santander. Alongside this, she was sold home
insurance, life cover and payment protection insurance (PPI).
When her mortgage was redeemed in September 2014, Miss S cancelled her PPI cover.
She says she didnt remember at that point that she also had life cover.
In 2016, Miss S made a complaint about the PPI and was provided with a refund for the
premiums shed paid for that policy.
In February 2020, Miss S called Company B, as she wanted to check whether she had
adequate home insurance cover. She believed Company B was her home insurance
provider as shed noticed the regular monthly payments going out of her account to them.
Company B told Miss S that she didnt have a home insurance policy with them, but that she
did have a life cover policy with them, which is what the monthly payments were for.
Following this conversation, Miss S complained to Santander in March 2020. She was
unhappy that shed continued to pay for the life cover after her mortgage had been
redeemed. She also felt the life policy had been mis-sold to her, as shed had other benefits
through work at the time. Shes told us she only took out the life policy as she thought it was
compulsory in order to have her mortgage approved.
Santander felt the complaint had been brought too late, outside of the timescales that apply.
So Miss S referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator also thought the complaint
had been made too late for us to consider it. As Miss S disagreed, the complaint was passed 
to me.
On 22 July 2021, I issued my provisional decision on the case. Specifically, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Miss S complaint has two main parts to it. Firstly, she complains that the 
life cover was mis-sold to her. Secondly, she complains the life cover should have 
been cancelled when her mortgage was redeemed.
I think its appropriate to deal with these complaint points separately as I think our 
service is able to consider one of them but not the other.
Complaint that the life cover was mis-sold
Miss S has said the policy wasnt suitable for her, as she had death in service and 
pension benefits through her employment. Shes also complained the cover was 
compulsory.
Miss S has told us that she recalls being provided with four application forms and 
direct debit mandates when she was taking out her mortgage in September 2000. 
She says there was an application and direct debit mandate each for the mortgage, 
PPI, life cover and home insurance. Shes explained she remembers being told her 
mortgage would have a better change of being approved if she had the PPI and life 
policies in place.
Given this, I believe the mis-sale part of Miss S complaint has been made out of 
time. I say this as our service cannot consider every complaint thats referred to us. 
Were bound by our rules, which are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. Among other things, these set out strict time limits within which complaints 
must be made.
Santander hasnt consented to us looking into Miss S complaint. If a business 
doesnt consent, the rules say I cant consider a complaint unless its made within six 
years of the event being complained about. Or, if later, within three years of the 
complainant being aware, or when they ought reasonably have been aware, they had 
cause for complaint.
When Miss S complains that the life cover was mis-sold, the event being complained
about is the sale of the policy, which occurred in 2000. Clearly more than six years 
had passed since then when Miss S made her complaint to Santander in 2020. So I 
must go on to consider the three year part of the rule.
Its clear Miss S was aware in 2000 that shed taken out life cover, and shes told us 
she was under the impression it was compulsory when it was sold to her. So its been 
more than three years since Miss S was aware she had cause for the complaint 
shes raising now  that the life cover was mis-sold to her because it was a 
compulsory condition of the mortgage, and that it was unsuitable as she had other 
benefits. Because of this, the mis-sale complaint has been made out of time. This 
means I cannot consider its merits.
Im allowed to look at a complaint thats been brought too late if Miss S was 
prevented from referring it due to exceptional circumstances. But Ive seen nothing to 
indicate that is the case here.
Complaint that the life cover should have been cancelled in 2014
Miss S complains that when she redeemed her mortgage in 2014, the life policy 
should have been cancelled at the same time. Shes said she cancelled her PPI then 
and wouldve ensured the life policy was also cancelled if shed remembered she had 
it.
I dont think Miss S has referred this complaint outside of the timescales which apply. 
The event being complained about took place in September 2014  this is when her 
mortgage was paid off and she expected the life cover to end. As per the ruIes, she 
would have six years from this date to refer her complaint. She complained to 
Santander in March 2020, which is within this six year period.
Therefore I have considered this complaint point carefully, but having done so, I do 
not uphold it.
I appreciate Miss S feels the life cover shouldve been cancelled when the mortgage 
was paid off because she took them out at the same time and believed the life cover was compulsory for the loan. However the life cover is a standalone policy. Its set up 
to run alongside the mortgage, with the cover decreasing as the mortgage balance 
reduces. So it was set up to run for 20 years, which was the term of the loan. When 
the mortgage was redeemed earlier than that, the policy provider (an insurer - a 
separate company to Santander) wouldnt have known Miss S no longer required the 
cover, unless she contacted them. I appreciate Miss S says shed forgotten she had 
the policy, but the monthly payments were clearly outlined on her bank statements. 
Either way, Santander wouldnt have been able to cancel the cover on her behalf as 
they did not provide the insurance themselves.
So taking everything into account, I do not uphold this complaint as Santander was 
not in the position to cancel Miss S life cover for her in 2014.
Miss S did not respond to my provisional decision. Santander replied to say they had nothing 
further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having received no further comments or information from either party, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional findings as detailed above. 
My final decision
My decision is that Miss S complaint the life cover was mis-sold is out of time, and that I do 
not uphold her complaint that the life cover should have been cancelled sooner.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 September 2021. 
Artemis Pantelides
Ombudsman