DRN-1755535
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Ms credit card application offered him the choice to take out PPI or turn it down. The 
option to buy PPI was chosen, the option to decline it was left blank, and Mr M signed the 
form to confirm his choices. Ive not seen any wider problems with Barclays sales process 
from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Mr M was misled here. So I think its most 
likely that Barclays made it clear Mr M didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to take 
it  though I can understand if he no longer remembers doing so after so long.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr M, so it had to check that the policy was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, it looks like Mr M was eligible for the cover and wasnt significantly affected by any 
of its main exclusions or limitations. While he had a pre-existing medical condition, it seems 
that it didnt normally affect his day-to-day life or ever cause him to take time off work. And 
he didnt have any other protection in place, aside from some savings  which wouldve only 
lasted a relatively short time if needed to cover his whole income. So the policy couldve 
been useful for Mr M in case he was off sick or out of work.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr M chose to take out the policy, which indicates he 
wanted this type of cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like he was significantly affected by 
any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have been useful for Mr M in case 
something went wrong. And so I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to 
have put him off taking it out. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Barclays didnt tell him, 
that was unfair. 
 To put that right, Barclays has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should also pay back to Mr M any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
That means Barclays should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr M the 
difference between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay Mr M 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman