DRN-4412416
The complaint
Mr B complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE rejected a claim on his pet insurance policy.
Where I refer to Great Lakes, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its 
behalf.
What happened
Mr B had a pet insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes. His wife (Mrs B) called Great 
Lakes to say they were moving abroad and asked if the policy would cover them. Soon after, 
Mr B also called and asked whether they would be covered abroad. Mr B says he was told 
the policy would cover them for up to 90 days.
After moving abroad, Mrs Bs dog needed treatment. He made a claim on the policy and 
provided details to Great Lakes about the treatment costs. Great Lakes said it was dealing 
with the claim but then told Mr B it wouldnt pay any costs, as he had moved abroad and so 
wasnt covered at all.
Mr B complained that he had been misled by Great Lakes, and had incurred substantial 
costs in the belief he was covered. He said it was unfair for Great lakes to refuse to pay out 
in these circumstances.
Great Lakes didnt change its position but did accept there had been some delays and poor 
communication and apologised for this.
When Mr B referred his complaint to this Service, Great Lakes maintained its decision was 
correct, but offered to refund the premiums Mr B had paid after he moved abroad. 
Our investigator said Mr B was given the impression he could keep the policy for 90 days 
and would be covered during that period but that wasnt correct. The investigator said if Mr B 
he had been given the right information, he would have known he needed to cancel his 
policy when he moved and get a new policy abroad, and he lost the opportunity to get a 
policy that would cover him. So Great Lakes should:
reimburse all the treatment costs Mr B had incurred;
refund the premiums he had paid after moving abroad; and
pay compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Great Lakes didnt agree with the investigator. While it accepted the information given to 
Mr B could have been clearer, it said Mrs B had been told in the first call that the policy 
wouldnt cover them if they moved abroad and Mr B had then reframed the question, which 
is why the call handler had answered in the way they did. Great Lakes said it wasnt fair to 
refund the premiums, pay the claim and pay compensation; if the claim was held to be valid, 
then it should be able to keep the premiums.
Great Lakes said it would agree to treat the policy as active and providing cover for 90 days 
after Mr B moved. So the claim would be paid as if the policy was still in force.
The investigator said he wasnt asking Great Lakes to treat the policy as remaining in force 
for 90 days and deal with the claim; his view was that Great Lakes should pay the costs Mr B 
had incurred as a result of its error. And it should refund the premiums and pay 
compensation of £200.
As no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision saying I also intended to uphold the complaint, but with a 
different remedy from that proposed by the investigator. I set out my reasons as follows:
The policy provides cover if someone is abroad for up to 90 days  for example on holiday; it 
doesnt cover someone who has moved abroad. So Mr B wasnt entitled to cover under the 
terms of the policy.
However, when he called to ask about this, he was given the impression the policy would 
cover him for up to 90 days. Ive listened to a recording of Mr Bs call and the earlier call by 
his wife. Although at the beginning of Mrs Bs call she was told the policy didnt provide cover 
for someone living abroad, towards the end of the call the information was less clear. And in 
Mr Bs call he was told he would be covered for 90 days. Great Lakes says he framed the 
question in a different way and this led to a different answer. But it was a discussion about 
what cover was provided when abroad and the call handler could have made it clear how the 
policy worked.
Insurers have a duty to provide information that clear, fair and not misleading and I dont 
think the information was clear enough.
Having said that, I dont think its fair to expect Great Lakes to pay all the costs Mr B incurred 
and return his premiums. That would leave him better off and effectively mean he could 
claim for any costs  regardless of what the policy covered  without having to pay anything 
for it.
If Mr B had known the policy was no longer in force, he would likely have found cover 
elsewhere  so he would have had to pay premiums, and any cover would have been 
subject to the conditions and limitations set out in that policy.
But Mr Bs complaint is that he thought the policy was still in force for 90 days. So thats what 
he expected to happen. Indeed, when he made his claim, thats what he thought had 
happened  he expected Great Lakes to deal with his claim. So to put him in the position he 
would have been in, the fair thing to do is for Great Lakes to assess the claim as if the policy 
had continued for 90 days. And if it had been in force, Mr B would have had to pay the 
premiums for that period, so it wouldnt be fair to refund those premiums to him.
There was some delay in dealing with the complaint and Mr B was given the impression it 
was being dealt with for some months before being told he wasnt covered. This was very 
upsetting for him, and he was put to some trouble having to chase Great Lakes to find out 
what was going on. I agree a payment of £200 is fair to compensate for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him.
In addition, he has been out of pocket since making his claim, so any payment made to 
settle the claim should include interest to reflect the loss of use of that money during this 
time. 
For these reasons, I said I was minded to uphold the complaint and direct Great Lakes 
Insurance SE to settle the claim in line with the policy terms, together with interest at 8% per 
year, and to pay compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.Replies to the provisional decision
Great Lakes has not provided any further comments.
Mr B has replied to say he disagrees with the provisional decision. I wont set out all of his 
comments in detail but the key points include:
If Great Lakes only has to pay for treatment carried out within the 90 day period hell 
still be out of pocket  the initial treatment by their vet, treatment by a specialist vet 
and the first rehab treatment would be covered, but there was further rehab treatment 
after the 90 day period as well.
The correct analysis would be that the cover is available for an incident that happens 
in the 90 day period and any treatment that flows from that
In January 2023 Great Lakes confirmed it would pay £3,395.71, which included the 
vets fees and the first set of rehab sessions, plus a separate claim for a lump 
removal (£656.45) that was also required. This should be the minimum thats paid, 
plus the compensation and interest.
He paid premiums for five months  from July through to November 2022  so if 
cover is limited to 90 days, some of the premiums should be refunded.
The service provided was very poor; he had to send the same document many times 
and make many phone calls, Great Lakes confirmed the claim would be paid and 
then changed its mind, and the delays and poor process caused great stress as well 
as financial hardship. Hes been without £5,000 for a year. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr B considers he should be covered for any treatment that follows on from an 
incident within the 90 day period, I dont think it would be fair to require Great Lakes to pay 
for any treatment after the 90 day period. The usual arrangement for pet insurance is that it 
provides cover for the cost of treatment while a policy is in force and once the policy ends, 
cover ends.
Great Lakes has said it would agree to treat the policy as being in force for 90 days and I 
think thats fair, for the reasons set out in the provisional decision. Mr B has referred to some 
specific amounts to be paid. Assuming those amounts would all have been paid, had the 
policy been in force, then they should now be paid. But its for Great Lakes, treating the 
policy as having continued for 90 days, to accept the claim and settle it in line with the 
relevant policy terms as if they were still in force. And its for Great Lakes to decide if the 
costs for the lump removal are paid separately.
With regard to the premiums, Mr B paid these for the period from July to November 2022. 
The 90 day period would have ended in early October 2022. I understand Great Lakes 
reimbursed some of the premium for November when the policy was cancelled. Looking at 
all the circumstances in the round, if Great Lakes deals with the claim and pays 
compensation for the distress caused, that would be a fair resolution. While Mr B has been 
without the use of the money for a year, he will be compensated for that by the addition of 
8% interest. All things considered, Im satisfied the action I am directing Great Lakes to carry 
out is a fair way to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to:treat the policy as being force for 90 days from 6 July 2022 and settle the claim in line 
with the policy terms, together with simple interest at 8% per year from the date of 
the claim to the date of settlement*;
pay compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
* If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr B a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman