DRN-3171674
The complaint 
Mr Ss complaint is about the service received from Homeserve Membership Limited in 
relation to his home electrics and plumbing and drainage policies.
What happened
Mr S took out the policies in September 2018. They were sold and administered by 
Homeserve on behalf of the insurer. Mr S has raised a number of issues: 
He requires correspondence to be in large font and with a yellow background. He  
informed Homeserve of this when he first took out the policies but it does not always 
make these adaptations, including in response to this complaint. 
He told Homeserve he was moving home on 25 September 2019 but it sent 
correspondence to his old address after this. 
He moved back in at the beginning of April 2021 and called his water company to tell 
them. They told him there was a special promotion on for the plumbing insurance 
cover and put him through to Homeserve to discuss. He says the agent was 
unprofessional and put the phone down on him.
He was paying £5pm for the electrical cover and £0.75pm for the plumbing and 
drainage cover initially but he is now paying more. New customers are being offered 
the same reduced rate still. He should be treated as a new customer and receive the 
same offer.
Mr S has asked for a refund of the premiums he has paid over the discounted rate new 
customers get and for the policies to continue at that price; and £270 compensation. 
Homeserve said it couldn't find any record of a call from Mr S about moving out of his 
property but the property was still covered anyway. Homeserve says Mr S was told clearly 
when he took out the policies that the initial price was a special offer for the first year of the 
policies and that the price would increase after the end of that year. It therefore does not 
agree to refund the premiums, as it says Mr S has had the benefit of the cover.
Regarding the cut off call, Homeserve accepts it was at fault but says this was likely to be a 
technical issue, rather than intentional on the part of the agent. It accepts that whatever the 
reason for the call cutting off, the agent should have called Mr S back and apologised for 
this. It also apologised for letter about the complaint not being sent to Mr S in the required 
format. Homeserve offered £100 compensation (increased from £75) for these matters.  
 
One of our investigators looked into the matter He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld, as he thought Homeserves offer of compensation was reasonable having taken 
account of what had happened. 
Mr S does not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
Mr S says he knows he phoned Homeserve in September 2019, as he was clinically 
vulnerable and so had to notify them he was shielding, he also phoned to tell them his tenant 
was moving in. He did all that was required and cant be held responsible for Homeserves 
failings and inefficiency. Mr S also says he doesnt feel the investigator has appreciated the 
how stressful and upsetting it is that Homeserve repeatedly sends communications in the 
correct format. He has also recently suffered a serious health event, which means he has to 
try and minimise stress. 
Mr S has asked for me to contact him by phone to discuss the case before issuing my final 
decision. Deciding ombudsmen dont routinely talk to either party to the complaint, as 
fairness would usually require that both parties be involved in any discussion at the same 
time. As the investigator already explained, we may decide it is necessary to do so, if there 
is information that is unclear or a dispute about the facts of the case that we consider can 
only be clarified by discussing it with the parties. Mr S has made his case clearly both in 
writing and verbally to the investigator, including how stressful and upsetting the situation 
has been for him, and I have been provided with all the correspondence and 
communications between Mr S and Homeserve. The evidence and positions of both parties 
is sufficiently clear and so I dont consider it is necessary to discuss this case with the parties 
in order to fairly determine the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Correspondence not in the format required 
Mr S is entitled to receive communications in a format that makes them accessible to him. 
He has had to complain about the same issue several times previously. Each time 
Homeserve has apologised and offered some compensation. I can quite understand how 
frustrating and upsetting it is for this to keep happening and that he is put to the trouble of 
having to make a complaint in order to receive communications that he can access. Failing 
to provide communications in the correct format for Mr S is not acceptable and there is a 
compounding effect when it is an issue that is repeated. And, as Mr S has said, the 
adaptions he needs are not difficult to achieve with the technology available. I accept there is 
no deliberate intention to cause upset but it should be within Homeserves capabilities to 
prevent this from happening.
Homeserve has apologised again and said it has put measures in place to ensure Mr S 
receives communications in the correct format for him in future. I will address the 
compensation for this matter below.
Premiums and information about introductory rate
It is generally up to insurers to decide what cover they wish to provide and the premium that 
they want to charge for that cover, based on the risk that it thinks a customer presents. It is 
also not unusual or unfair for insurers to offer a discounted price to entice new customers 
Similarly, individual customers have a choice about which policy and which insurer they wish 
to take insurance with, or not take insurance at all. 
I have listened to the call during which the policies were sold to Mr S. The agent explained 
clearly that the discounted prices - £5pm for the electrical policy and £0.75pm for the 
plumbing and drainage policy - would only apply for the first year of the policy and the 
premiums at the end of that customers were currently paying £8.56pm and £10pm 
respectively for the second year of the policy, if no claims were made. Mr S confirmed he 
understood what he was told about the policy. I am therefore satisfied he was given 
sufficiently clear information about the future cost of the policy at that stage and I am not 
persuaded Homeserve should be required to allow Mr S to remain on the introductory rate 
for longer than the first year.  After the first year, the plumbing and drainage policy went up to £10pm and then £16pm 
from September 2020 to September 2021, and the electrical policy went up to £10.84pm and 
then £13.12 pm for September 2020 to September 2021. 
Homeserve has provided evidence that this is in line with other customers have been 
charged.  I am also satisfied that Mr S was provided with clear and fair information about the 
cost of the policies and am not persuaded that Homeserve has done anything wrong, or that 
it should make any refund to Mr S. 
Call regarding change of address and correspondence being sent to the insured address 
after he'd moved out
Mr S is adamant he informed Homeserve that he was moving home in September 2019.  I 
have no reason to doubt what he has said. However, Homeserve has no record of a call. 
Mr S wants a finding about this and says Homeserve is being dishonest about the call.  It is 
impossible for me to be certain what happened. While I have no reason to doubt what Mr S 
has said, there is no record of his call. It might be that Homeserve failed to record it properly 
but without some further independent evidence I am unable to conclude that it is at fault for 
continuing to send correspondence to the insured address.  
I have also considered what else happened around that time. 
Homeserve says that the renewal documents had been sent out on 20 August 2019, before 
Mr S moved out and so he was aware of the renewal. However, Homeserve also confirms 
that the documents had not been sent in the required format and Mr S had to complain about 
this on 9 September 2019. Homeserve sent new documents in the correct format a short 
while later (but it seems after Mr S had moved out) and paid £120 compensation for the 
error. 
So Mr S was aware the policy was renewing in September 2019 but was not able to access 
the renewal documents which would have set out the new price for the second year of the 
policy before he moved out. However, theres no suggestion that Mr S asked for the policy to 
be cancelled when he complained about the format of the correspondence in early 
September 2019. He has suggested in a call to the investigator that he did not need the 
cover while he was no living in the property but there is no evidence that he asked to cancel 
the policy either in September 2019, or on any other occasion since then, including in 
October 2020 after the policy renewed again, and he had to make another complaint 
regarding the format of documents.  
Overall therefore, even if I accept Mr S did tell Homeserve he was moving, I dont think it 
makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint, as the evidence suggests that he 
wanted to continue the policy. 
The cut off call 
Mr S says the agent was unprofessional and disconnected the call without warning. There is 
no evidence about why the call was cut off and it is reasonable to assume there was a 
technological difficulty. I agree the agent should have called Mr S back. Sometimes things 
do go wrong and Homeserve has made an admission of fault and an apology. I will address 
this further below.    
CompensationHomeserve failed to respond to Mr Ss complaint in the required format. I can well 
understand the frustration and upset this caused. I can also see Mr S has had some recent 
health difficulties and he has explained that he has to try and eliminate stress as much as 
possible because of this. Mr S should not be forced in to making a formal complaint in order 
to receive documents that are accessible to him and this will undoubtedly have caused him 
unnecessary and avoidable stress and inconvenience. I know he considers the 
compensation already offered for this is not enough, however, I agree with the investigator 
that the offer of £100 is not unreasonable to take account of the wrong format in response to 
his complaint and not calling him back after he was cut off in April 2021. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint, as I am satisfied Homeserve Membership Limited has already 
made a reasonable offer in full and final settlement of the complaint. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman