DRN-3337826
The complaint
Mrs J complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call) recorded incorrect 
registration details for her car, under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs J says she was contacted by the DVLA to say she had failed to insure her vehicle. She 
has insurance in place for her car but on investigation found the registration detailed on her 
policy was for a different vehicle. This registration is for a Nissan, Mrs J owns a Fiat. 
Mrs J had to provide documents and spend time corresponding with the DVLA before it 
decided not to take further action. Mrs J believes One Call acting as her insurance broker 
made a mistake and recorded the wrong registration number.
One Call says Mrs J has had her Fiat insured since April 2016. It doesnt have a recording of 
the call when this car was added to her policy. But it says a certificate of insurance and 
statement of fact was sent to Mrs Js online portal for her to read. However, it acknowledges 
she couldnt access this information because of an error with its portal. 
One Call says renewal documents were sent every year by post showing the incorrect 
registration. It says Mrs J didnt notify it the registration was wrong until 2021. This was when 
she was contacted by the DVLA. It says her insurer applied an additional premium of £41.23 
when Mrs J confirmed the correct registration. This was discounted as a gesture of goodwill. 
No administration fee was charged, and One Call paid the remaining additional premium, 
again as a gesture of goodwill.  
Mrs J doesnt understand how her policy can show the registration for a Nissan and yet also 
show the car insured is a Fiat. She doesnt think One Call has explained how this can 
happen as insurance records are taken from a central database using a vehicles registration. 
Mrs J says she had two cars insured with One Call. When she updated her address details 
in July 2019, it did this for one of her cars but not the other. One Call says Mrs J needed to 
change the address separately for each of her policies, by contacting both of the relevant 
departments.
Mrs J wasnt satisfied With One Calls response and referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She thought Mrs J couldve informed One Call 
about the issue with the portal. And as renewal information was sent by post, Mrs J 
shouldve contacted One Call to highlight the error with the registration. She noted no action 
was taken by the DVLA and felt £30 was fair to acknowledge the error with the registration. 
Mrs J didnt think this outcome was fair and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs J, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I understand Mrs Js policy was first taken out in 2014. She then changed her car in April 
2016, replacing the existing insured car with a Fiat. This instruction was given during a 
phone call. At this time the correct make and model was recorded on the policy but one letter 
in the registration was wrong.
We asked One Call for a recording of this call to understand how the mistake was made. It 
says it doesnt have a recording. 
I have thought about Mrs Js comments that the insurance system is set up using a database 
to pull through a cars details based on the registration number. She doesnt understand how 
her policy can show a Fiat when the registration relates to a different make and model of car. 
We asked One Call for more information to explain how this could happen. It says it cant 
verify the information provided to its agent, as it doesnt have a recording to listen to. But it 
believes there is a possibility Mrs J gave the wrong registration. If its agent couldnt find the 
correct details on the system, it would mean searching for the vehicle make and model and 
entering the details manually. One Call says its process is for its agent to then confirm the 
vehicle details and registration back to the customer. 
I have thought carefully about Mrs Js comments that vehicle records are kept on a database 
and this should prevent such errors occurring. Ive also thought about One Calls explanation 
that it will manually input information about the car when the registration doesnt pull through 
the correct vehicle. 
As there is no telephone record, it isnt now possible to say with certainty what happened. 
The evidence available doesnt show how or at what point the error recording the registration 
occurred. One Call explains it will manually search for the car details and continue with the 
quote, where the system pulls through a car that doesnt match that which is confirmed by 
the customer. This would explain how the renewal continued to be processed in these 
circumstances.    
I have also thought about whether it was reasonable to expect Mrs J to have been alerted to 
a problem when she received the renewal documentation by post. I have read the 
documents that were sent, which includes the letter One Call sent in April 2016 when Mrs J 
first added the Fiat to her policy. The letter says:
Thank you for renewing your car insurance through One Call. Please take a moment to read 
through your documents carefully to ensure all the details are correct and that your demands 
and needs have been met.
The incorrect registration for Mrs Js car is set out on the first page. 
The second page of the renewal says:
IMPORTANT NOTICE
The attached proposal form/statement of fact is a record of the answers you gave to the questions we asked during our recorded conversation, or entered by you on our 
website/comparison site, and forms part of the contract of motor insurance between you and 
[insurer]. It is therefore very important that you check the information is accurate and 
complete to the best of your knowledge and belief.
The renewal information for each of the next five years also shows the incorrect registration 
number on the first page. The renewals explain the importance of the policy information 
being accurate and that Mrs J should make contact if this information needs changing. 
I cant reliably establish when or how the error with the registration number occurred. But I 
do think Mrs J was responsible for ensuring the details in her renewal documentation were 
accurate. I think this information was set out clearly and the importance of the information 
being accurate was explained. I acknowledge Mrs J wasnt able to view documents on her 
portal. However, I havent seen evidence One Call was made aware of this. I think its 
reasonable to expect this to be brought to One Calls attention, at an early stage, so it can 
resolve the problem. Its also clear the renewals were sent each term by post and this 
information was received by Mrs J.
In the circumstances described I think Mrs J should reasonably have told One Call about the 
incorrect registration when she received the renewal information in 2016. This would then 
have prevented any subsequent issues involving the DVLA.
The next point Ive considered is that Mrs J says she had to contact One Call to advise of a 
change of address in 2019, but this change was only recorded for one of her cars, not both. 
She thinks the address shouldve been updated automatically for both cars.
We asked One Call why this didnt happen. It says Mrs J had two policies, a platinum 
policy, and a standard annual policy. It says the address has to be changed separately on 
each policy by contacting the relevant departments. One Call says Mrs J will have been told 
about this when she contacted it regarding her change of address. It also says the separate 
policy documents confirm different contact methods, and contact numbers, relevant to each 
of the policies.  
I acknowledge that Mrs J found One Calls process frustrating. I note her comment that she 
doesnt think its systems are adequate to ensure information is updated correctly. I have also 
read the transcripts she provided from her online conversations with One Call, where this is 
discussed. The business also sent an excerpt of a conversations from June 2021 to show it 
advised Mrs J that she had to contact its platinum team to change details on that policy. 
Although I can understand Mrs Js frustrations, the records I have seen support One Calls 
explanation of its process, that she has two policies, which it treats separately. I appreciate 
her view that this process could be made easier, but the process One Call follows isnt 
something our service can determine. Were not the industry regulator. Our role is to 
consider individual disputes. But having considered the evidence I dont think its been 
shown that One Call failed to act on instructions Mrs J provided or acted outside of its 
established process.
Mrs Js premium was increased by her insurer when the correct registration information was 
provided. I understand this increase was subsequently refunded in part by her insurer and 
the remainder by One Call, which I think is fair. 
I can understand that Mrs J was upset when she was contacted by the DVLA, especially as 
she had paid for insurance cover to be in place. Im sure this must have been very 
distressing for her. Im glad that this has now been resolved and the DVLA isnt taking any 
action. I think its fair that One Call provided £30 compensation and an apology for the issues Mrs J 
had viewing documents on the portal. And that she was refunded with the additional 
premium charge. But based on the evidence and for the reasons explained here, I dont think 
its been shown that One Call is responsible for the incorrect registration record, or for it 
remaining uncorrected for several years. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman