DRN-3245983
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG has declined a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr and Mrs C took out an annual insurance policy underwritten by URV. In 
November 2019 Mr and Mrs C booked a holiday to an island Ill refer to as C. They paid for 
their flights and accommodation separately. 
In March 2020 Covid-19 was declared to be a pandemic and on 17 March 2020 the Foreign 
and Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad. 
During the summer of 2020 the UK government introduced travel corridors. In September 
2020 the island Mr and Mrs C were due to visit was removed from the travel corridor list and 
the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to C. Following this Mr and Mrs C 
cancelled their holiday. They attempted to get a refund from their accommodation provider, 
but were unable to do so. They claimed on their travel insurance policy. URV declined the 
claim on the basis that it wasnt covered under the policy. Mr and Mrs C complained but 
URV maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
Mr and Mrs C made a complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into what had 
happened and upheld the complaint. She didnt think the policy made it sufficiently clear that 
Mr and Mrs C werent covered if they travelled against FCDO advice but also not covered if 
they cancelled. URV didnt agree  they said that the contract of insurance set out what was 
and wasnt covered. And they said it was up to Mr and Mrs C to see if the policy met their 
needs. So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint. 
The policy documentation
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) summarises the cover available. On 
page one it says:
Unless agreed with us there will be no cover if the FCO advise against travel to your 
destination.
On page 16 of the policy terms and conditions it sets out the circumstances in which 
cancellation is covered under the policy. It says: 
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Schedule of benefits for your 
proportion only of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and 
other pre-paid charges (including excursions up to £250) which you have paid or are 
contracted to pay, together with your proportion only of any reasonable additional 
travel expenses incurred if cancellation of the trip is necessary and unavoidable and 
due to: 
1. The death, bodily injury, illness, disease, or complications arising as a direct 
result of pregnancy of: 
(a) You
(b) Any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with 
(c) Any person who you have arranged to stay with 
(d) Your close relative
(e) Your close business associate 
2. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with being 
quarantined, called as a witness at a Court of Law or for jury service attendance. 
3. Redundancy of you or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to 
travel with
4. You or any person who you are travelling or have arranged to travel with, are a 
member of the Armed Forces, Territorial Army, Police, Fire, Nursing or 
Ambulance Services or employees of a Government Department and have 
your/their authorised leave cancelled or are called up for operational reasons, 
provided that the cancellation could reasonably have been expected at a time 
when you purchased this insurance or at the time of booking any trip. 
5. The Police or other authorities requesting you to stay at or return to your home 
due to serious damage to your home caused by fire, aircraft, explosion, storm, 
flood, subsidence, fallen trees, collision by road vehicles, malicious people or 
theft. 
The policy contains a general exclusion on page 12 which says it will not cover: 
Your travel to a country, specific area or event when the Travel Advice Unit of the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or regulatory authority in a country to/from 
which you are travelling has advised against all, or all but essential travel.
Was it unreasonable for URV to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation 
section of the policy because: 
Mr and Mrs C cancelled their trip because the FCDO advised against all but essential 
travel to the destination they were due to travel to. Thats not something that is 
covered under the terms and conditions of the policy as its not a specific or listed 
insured event. However, taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, 
I dont think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this 
case for the reasons Ill go on to explain. The exclusions that Ive outlined above mean that if Mr and Mrs C had travelled 
abroad theyd have not followed FCDO advice. So, they wouldnt have been covered 
by the policy terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, 
changes in FCDO guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was 
made sufficiently clear to Mr and Mrs C. 
Mr and Mrs C would have needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order 
to understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And, I dont think that 
this information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent way. 
So, I dont think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr and 
Mrs C and URV. I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs C would have purchased the 
policy if they had realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO 
guidance changed after theyd bought the policy. And, at the time they bought the 
policy I think its most likely they could have purchased a policy which did as they 
were widely available on the market. 
Putting things right
Im directing URV to treat the claim as covered under the cancellation section of the policy. 
URV should therefore assess the claim under the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman