DRN-3795622
The complaint
Mrs W, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out
sufficient proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans.
What happened
Mrs W was advanced four home collected loans between June 2018 and November 2020. 
Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £400.00 20/06/2018 21/01/2019 33 £20.00
2 £400.00 21/01/2019 01/11/2019 33 £20.00
3 £400.00 05/12/2019 13/11/2020 34 £20.00
4 £250.00 18/11/2020 03/07/2021 34 £12.50
Following Mrs Ws complaint, Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt
going to uphold her complaint. Mrs Ws representative didnt accept the outcome and
referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He thought Morses had made a reasonable decision
to provide loans 1 - 3 and so he didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint about those loans. But he
thought loan 4 should be upheld because firstly, Mrs W had problems repaying loans 2 and
3 and he also though the lending was now harmful for her.
Morses disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached about loan four. Ive
summarised its comments below;
Morses pointed out there was a one-month break in lending between loans 2 and 3.
Morses said loan 2 was repaid late but this was due to a couple of reasons outside of
Mrs Ws control. Morses provided screen shots of its system notes that show for loan
2, Mrs W was away on holiday for some missed payments and she also had a
problem with her washing machine.
For loan 3, Mrs Ws income was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, so while
payments were made, they were less than the contractual payment.
Loan 4 was Mrs Ws smallest loan  and she had a smaller weekly commitment.
The income and expenditure information showed loan 4 to be affordable.
Mrs Ws representative didnt commented on the proposed outcome by the adjudicator.
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. I then 
issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold 
Mrs Ws complaint based on the evidence I had at the time. A copy the provisional findings 
follow this in italics and smaller font and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs W could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and
Mrs Ws income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs W. These factors include:
Mrs W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs W.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs W could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs W was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ws complaint.
Neither Morses nor Mrs W (or her representative) appear to disagree with the outcome the
adjudicator reached about loans 1 - 3. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute
and so I say no more about them. But I have kept them in mind when thinking about the
overall lending relationship.
Loan 4
The adjudicator upheld this loan for two reasons. Firstly, because in his view the lending was
now harmful for Mrs W and secondly because he considered shed had previous repayment
problems.
I accept, that Mrs W had been indebted with Morses continuously for around 29 months 
and she was further committing to be indebted for an additional 34 weeks. This, in some
situations could be a sign that she was now reliant on the borrowing or at the very least
having longer term money management problems. Neither can I ignore that at times the
lending was consecutive, which could show that Mrs W had a continued need for credit.But I also have to keep in mind that Mrs Ws borrowing was now decreasing. Loan 4 was her
smallest loan to date and so she had the smallest weekly repayment. So, I cant fairly
conclude Mrs Ws commitments were increasing in an unsustainable manner.
So, taking everything together, I dont think Morses wouldve or ought to have realised the
loan was unsustainable for Mrs W and I so I am intending to conclude the loans werent
likely to be so harmful that it wouldve prompted Morses to have stopped lending to her. But
that doesnt mean Morses did all it shouldve done before advancing the loan.
In addition, Ive also considered what the adjudicator said about the repayment problems.
Loan 2 was only marginally late and it seems that some of that time was due to Mrs W being
away on holiday. So, while payments were missed  these were missed due to her not being
around rather than superficially not having the ability to repay.
For loan 3, Mrs Ws repayments were up to date up until the point the COVID-19 pandemic
began, and I can see from the system note provided by Morses that she told it about her
change in circumstances in April 2020. Moving forward, after the pandemic started Mrs W
tended to still make weekly repayments albeit smaller than the contracted amount, but in this
case, there was as far as I can see a legitimate reason for this. Again, this isnt an indicator
that Mrs W was having wider financial problems, rather a temporary cash flow problem
caused by events outside of her and Morses control.
Morses has provided us with the income information it collected from Mrs W for this loan.
She declared a weekly income of £279.65 with declared weekly outgoings of around £91.
This left, a weekly disposable income of around £189 in which to afford her repayment of
£12.50. Based, on these figures it was reasonable for Morses to believe that Mrs W could
afford her repayments.
But that doesnt mean that Morses carried out a proportionate check. I do think the time in
debt ought to have altered Morses to the possibility that Mrs W may have been reliant on
this credit and her indebtedness were potentially extending for another 34 weeks. And, while
there had been some reasons the previous loans had taken longer to repay these factors
ought to have prompted it to consider whether it knew enough about Mrs Ws financial
position.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Mrs W declared to
it about her income and expenditure especially as this was the first loan taken out while the
pandemic was still ongoing. Even though this information suggested Mrs W could
afford these loan repayments.
Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of Mrs Ws actual financial position to
ensure the lending was affordable. This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking
for evidence of her outgoings, or looking at bank statements and/or Mrs Ws full credit file.
This mightve helped verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other
information that Morses mightve needed to consider about Mrs Ws financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to
be satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered
that Mrs W couldnt afford it.
Mrs Ws representative hasnt provided a copy of her credit file or her bank statements
covering the period leading up to loan 4 being advanced. Without anything further, I cant be
sure what Morses may have seen had it carried out better checks. So, I cant fairly uphold
the complaint.
Taking account of the income and expenditure information Morses relied upon, it wouldve
concluded that Mrs W couldnt afford the loan repayments because she didnt have any
disposable income in which to pay her outstanding creditors as well as paying her Morses
loans.Although Morses didnt carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that further
checks wouldve led it to conclude that loan 4 shouldnt have been granted.
So, Im intending to not uphold Mrs Ws complaint about this loan.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Mrs W and Morses were asked to provide anything further for consideration in 
response to the provisional decision as soon as possible but in any event no later than 
11 November 2022. 
Morses has responded to say it accepts the findings that were outlined in the provisional 
decision. 
No response has been received from either Mrs W or her representative. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided anything new for my consideration, I see no reason to depart from 
the findings I made in the provisional decision. 
I still think Morses ought to have carried out further checks before it approved loan 4, but I 
dont know what Morses may have discovered by carrying out the further checks. Therefore, 
Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint about this loan.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman