DRN-3753785
The complaint
Mr W complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In July 2019, Mr W acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr W was required to make 59 monthly repayments of around £322. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £19,015.
Mr W says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a full credit search, verifying Mr Ws 
income from his payslips and allowing an amount for non-discretionary expenditure. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr W didnt agree and said that he wasnt in employment and his credit file showed he was 
in financial difficulty  noting he had a county court judgment and default recorded. He 
provided further evidence to show his financial difficulties and said he couldnt afford the 
agreement, and this was shown by him being in arrears throughout the agreement. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr W about his income. I note his comments about how long he had 
been employed and that he was still on probation but Moneybarn reviewed two payslips from 
the months prior to Mr Ws application and I think it was reasonable that it relied on this 
information. This showed Mr Ws average monthly income was around £1,300.
Moneybarn completed a credit check and noted that Mr W had a county court judgment 
recorded 18 months prior to his application and a default recorded three months prior. It said 
his existing borrowing levels were zero. Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of its credit check 
and so Ive therefore relied on a copy of the credit file supplied by Mr W. I think this gives a 
good indication of what Moneybarn would likely have seen. At the time of the application it 
shows the county court judgment from February 2018 as Moneybarn had recorded. It also 
shows that Mr W had defaulted on a number of accounts since 2018 although most of these 
had been settled by the time of the Moneybarn agreement. Mr Ws credit report also showed 
that he was experiencing issues making his payments for utilities and had been in arrears 
with his water account (although this was settled in July 2019) had defaulted on another 
account in May 2019, and was in arrears on a telecommunication account. I think this meant 
that Moneybarn should have been concerned about whether Mr W was experiencing 
financial difficulties and as such whether the agreement would be sustainably affordable for 
him.
Given Mr Ws credit information, I think it would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to 
have verified Mr Ws expenditure as well as his income. One of the ways that Moneybarn 
could have verified Mr Ws expenditure was by reviewing bank statements. Unfortunately, 
Mr W hasnt been able to provide copies of his bank statements. He has provided a 
testimony regarding his expenses at the time and also some supporting evidence of his 
situation but having asked for further evidence of his costs this hasnt been provided. I have 
reviewed the evidence Mr W has provided and can see from his credit report that he had 
contracts in place for water and a mobile phone around the time of the agreement. His credit 
report doesnt show regular payments for credit commitments and while I have evidence of 
his child maintenance costs Mr W hasnt provided evidence of his other living costs such as 
his rent and other utilities. 
Based on the evidence I have I do not find I have enough to say that had Moneybarn carried 
out further checks it would have found the agreement to have been unaffordable for Mr W. 
Because of this I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman