DRN-2771131
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the information hes been given from Lloyds Bank PLC about what 
accounts it offers. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Lloyds dont provide personal recommendations on what account suits someones 
individual needs. I cant make them offer that service or say its unfair they dont. If 
thats something Mr S wants, he might wish to consider independent financial advice.
Instead Lloyds provide information to allow someone to make the choice themselves. 
Its not disputed that Lloyds provided Mr S with this, for him to review to decide what 
account, if any, had the features he wanted.
Mr S thinks some of his existing account fees should be refunded because he didnt 
get the answers he needed and so he couldnt decide what he should do. But I dont 
think Lloyds did anything wrong with the information it provided, so I wont be asking 
it to do this. 
Mr S also said the branch didnt help with his pensions query. Lloyds explained thats 
because branches dont deal with pensions  theyre dealt with by Scottish Widows. 
So again, I dont think I can blame Lloyds for not giving Mr S a service they dont 
offer. 
Lloyds did offer Mr S £25 because the branch couldve been clearer about what it 
could and couldnt do. I think thats fair to reflect the impact this had. 
Lloyds also offered £50 as one of its letters was branded with Halifaxs details. I dont 
think this was anything more than a simple mistake, but I can see how it unsettled 
Mr S. I think the amount appropriately accounts for this. 
Mr S says Lloyds repeatedly didnt get back to him. It seems Lloyds thought its letter 
addressed his points, but Mr S disagreed  hence why he contacted it again. I can 
understand how that ended up frustrating him. But ultimately, Lloyds told Mr S he 
could contact our service. So, I think he couldve done that when he didnt get the 
response he was looking for. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman