DRN-2760766
The complaint
Ms H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit card 
account that was unaffordable.
What happened
Ms H says that Vanquis should not have allowed her to open a credit card account in 2018 
as it was clear she was in financial difficulties. She says the lending was both unaffordable 
and irresponsible. Ms H says she got into further debt and would like Vanquis to treat her 
fairly.
Vanquis says it carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on Ms Hs application and 
gave her a relatively low credit limit of £1,000. It says Ms H had no County Court 
Judgements (CCJs) on her credit file and one default some seven months before. It also 
says Ms H had a regular wage.
Ms H brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Vanquis had carried out appropriate checks on Ms Hs application and thought the 
account was, for some time, well managed. The investigator thought Vanquis had tried to 
help Ms H when it became aware of her difficulties.
Ms H doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Ms H will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders should carry out proportionate and reasonable checks on any lending applications. 
Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and amount of lending. Im satisfied 
that Vanquis did carry out those checks and gave Ms H what I think was a relatively modest 
credit limit of £1,000. I can see Ms H received a regular income and didnt have any recent 
adverse data recorded on her credit file. And I can see that Ms H managed her account 
appropriately for some time after the account was opened which I think provides evidence 
that the lending decision was appropriate at the time.
I think Ms Hs financial position got worse, but I cant fairly hold Vanquis responsible for that 
change in Ms Hs financial position. Banks and building societies should treat customers in 
financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. And Im satisfied that Vanquis has acted 
in such a way her by agreeing to freeze interest and charges. I also think Vanquis has fairly 
offered to set up a repayment plan, but Ms H didnt want to agree to it due to the possible 
impact on her credit file.
Overall, Im satisfied Vanquis hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly and did carry out 
appropriate checks on Ms Hs credit card application. I also find it tried to help Ms H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman