DRN-2950649
The complaint
Mr V has complained Virgin Medial Mobile Finance Limited didnt provide him with the full 
package of goods he was paying for through a fixed-sum loan.
What happened
Mr V decided to upgrade his mobile package in August 2020. He took out a fixed-sum loan 
paying £15 a month for three years for a new mobile which came bundled with a Nintendo 
Switch.
Mr V complained that his new mobile arrived but came without the Nintendo Switch. Virgin 
explained that these boxes came as a bundle and one wouldnt be sent without the other. 
Mr V cancelled the direct debit for his loan and brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt believe there was sufficient evidence to show Mr V didnt get what he 
should have done. Mr V was unhappy about this and questioned why we were believing 
Virgin over and above his testimony.
Mr V has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr V has asked to speak with an ombudsman once someone has been allocated his case. 
However, I believe I have all the evidence I need to consider his case effectively.
To assist in coming to my conclusion, Ive reviewed Virgins contact notes detailing 
conversations with Mr V. These cover his calls in August 2020 to upgrade his package and 
later calls in early November 2020 about further changes Mr V wanted to make to transfer 
his mobile number to his new deal. Mr V then called Virgin  according to these notes  on 
16 November 2020 that hed not received the full parts of his bundle which hed contracted 
for in August.
Virgin has confirmed to us they no longer have copies of the actual calls, so Ive not been 
able to listen to these. I know Mr V believes Virgin is deliberately withholding information 
from us, but I dont believe this is the case.
I understand from Virgin that Mr Vs bundle wouldnt have been sent at all if any part of the 
bundle was either out of stock or unavailable. Theyve also provided us with examples of the 
packaging Mr Vs bundle would have been in which indicates that there would be limited 
opportunity to tamper with it. 
I also note Mr V didnt allege tampering by the delivery agent when he contacted us to 
complain.
Im also aware that theres no record of Mr V contacting Virgin to complain about parts of the 
bundle being undelivered before 16 November. This is nearly three months after the 
package was originally dispatched. Mr V has told us he was going to give the Nintendo 
Switch to his daughter so I think its non-delivery after his new phone had arrived would have 
made him contact Virgin earlier.
Mr V has told us he phoned Virgin immediately after the non-delivery, but this isnt reflected 
in their contact notes. There is evidence of other calls between Virgin and Mr V before he 
complains about non-delivery. Hes specifically asking about transferring his mobile number 
over to this new package, but he was then told hed have to pay off his existing credit in full.
It's only after these calls in early and mid-November that Mr V calls Virgin to say part of his 
bundle was undelivered. Ive been wondering why Mr V would lie about what had happened. 
As he says, why would he? Having considered this, I believe its possible he was annoyed 
he couldnt transfer his number over so was looking for an alternative way of getting out of 
his existing credit agreement.
I dont doubt Mr V will disagree with me, but I believe based on what Ive seen this is a 
reasonable conclusion. I wont be asking Virgin to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Vs complaint against Virgin 
Media Mobile Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman