DRN-2887140
The complaint
Mr Bs complained about the amount of time he spent on the online chat function of Barclays 
Bank UK PLC (Barclays) without getting the information he needed.
What happened
Mr B has a current account with Barclays.  He noticed hed gone overdrawn, which he didnt 
think was right.  So he contacted Barclays via their online chat facility to check the 
transactions on his account.
Mr Bs told us that he was on the online chat for about 35 minutes.  During this time, the 
responses were slow  or there were none at all.  So Mr B ended the chat and called 
Barclays instead to verify his account balance by phone.
Mr B complained to Barclays about his experience with the online chat.  Barclays considered 
his complaint and paid him £25 compensation for not dealing with him quicker.  
Mr B wasnt satisfied with that outcome and brought his complaint to us.  He told us he 
wanted an apology for what had happened and an explanation of why the agent on the chat 
hadnt dealt with him quicker.  And he said the £25 compensation paid wasnt enough to 
compensate him for what had happened.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded that Barclays didnt need to do 
anything differently to resolve Mr Bs complaint.  He said that Mr B was in the chat for longer 
than he wouldve expected  but that Barclays had acknowledged this and paid him 
compensation.  And he explained that Barclays werent certain why the chat took so long.  
But theyd apologised to Mr B that it did.
Our investigator said the impact this had had on Mr B was minimal  so he didnt think any 
more compensation was merited.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view and said he should receive more 
compensation.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.  Ill explain why.
All parties in this case agree the online chat went on too long.  The issue I have to decide is 
whether the compensation Barclays have paid Mr B is enough to recognise that.
I understand Mr B was inconvenienced by what happened.  But were all inconvenienced 
from time to time.  And its not always possible for businesses to know exactly why thats 
happened.
We dont expect businesses to compensate their customers every time theyre 
inconvenienced to any degree  only where we think that the impact on the customer has 
been more than minor.
In this case, Mr B spent just over half an hour trying to get information from his bank.  That 
was undoubtedly inconvenient.  But he ended the chat which was frustrating him and got the 
information he needed by calling Barclays instead.  He wasnt left without a way to get that.  
And nothing Ive seen suggests that it was critical Mr B got that information instantly, as 
opposed to when he actually got it later that afternoon.
So I dont think the inconvenience Mr B suffered was any more than minor.  Barclays have 
already acknowledged that, apologised, and paid Mr B £25 to compensate him.  I dont think 
they need to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman