DRN-2838523
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that the sum assured on their whole of life assurance policy wasnt 
increased by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) as 
requested. 
Mr and Mrs S further complain that this led them to lose out when Mr S had cause to claim 
on the policy the following year.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a joint reviewable whole of life assurance policy with a number of 
additional benefits including critical illness, permanent disability and elderly care cover. 
The sum assured for these benefits for both parties was £50,000.  
In March 2020 Mr and Mrs S asked for a quote to increase the sum assured for these 
benefits to a total of £100,000. Sun Life reviewed their request and wrote back to them 
explaining that the maximum sum assured it could offer at that time was £62,500. It provided 
a premium quote for this increase and sent Mr and Mrs S the relevant forms to complete in 
order to effect this change. The quoted premium was £114.73. Around this time Mr and    
Mrs S also asked for copies of their policy documents and they enquired about putting the 
policy into trust. So, Sun Life also sent them copies of their policy and paperwork concerning 
the trust.
Mr and Mrs S say they completed the forms to increase the premium and returned them to 
Sun Life in the post in a prepaid envelope which had been provided.
Sadly, Mr S later became ill and so in January 2021 Mr and Mrs S contacted Sun Life to 
make a claim on the critical illness benefit in the policy. At this point they discovered the sum 
assured for their benefits hadnt been increased, which meant the pay-out Mr S would 
receive from any successful claim was less. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt think this was fair, so they complained to Sun Life. After looking into 
things Sun Life didnt uphold their complaint. It explained it had never received the 
paperwork Mr and Mrs S said they sent. Had it done so, it would have sent them paperwork 
confirming changes had been made. It noted that the annual statements that it later sent to 
Mr S in August 2020 and Mrs S in November 2020 confirmed the sum assured for their 
benefits remained £50,000. 
Our investigator looked into things and didnt think Sun Life needed to do anything further. 
He thought Mr and Mrs S ought to have known that their benefit hadnt been increased given 
they didnt receive any confirmation paperwork and their annual statement showed no 
increase.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They noted that they werent told theyd have to check the benefit 
had been increased. They also said they didnt expect the increase to show on their annual 
statement as they considered this an additional benefit. Mr and Mrs S also stressed they 
were not at fault and so they dont think its fair they lose out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to read that Mr S had been ill  Im sure this has been a very difficult time for 
both him and Mrs S. Im also conscious that the difference in sum assured is a substantial 
amount of money  so I can understand why this complaint is important to them both.
I think it would be helpful to start by explaining that my role here is to look at whether 
Sun Life made any mistakes. If so, I need to look at the impact of these and put Mr and 
Mrs S back into the position they would have been in had errors not been made. 
Whilst I appreciate this will come as a significant disappointment to Mr and Mrs S, having 
taken everything into account, I dont intend to uphold this complaint  Ill explain why.
Ive seen copies of the completed forms Mr and Mrs S said they returned to Sun Life. 
Given this, and the fact they went to the trouble of requesting them, I think its likely these 
were returned in March 2020. Yet Sun Life has said it didnt receive these forms. 
Where evidence is incomplete or conflicting, I must determine what I think is most likely. 
It would seem to me unusual that Sun Life wouldnt action paperwork it had received, but I 
would also say its unusual for correctly addressed post to not be delivered; and Im satisfied 
the forms would have been correctly addressed given Mr and Mrs S said they used a pre-
paid envelope. Whilst the matter is finely balanced, the fact Sun Life promptly actioned all of 
Mr and Mrs Ss other requests at around this time leads me to conclude the most probable 
explanation here is that the forms were somehow lost in the post. And this isnt something 
Sun Life is responsible for.
I also think there were opportunities for Mr and Mrs S to identify that no changes had been 
made to their policy and rectify this. I say this given that they received no confirmation that 
Sun Life had received their forms or that the changes had been made. And the letter 
Sun Life sent with the forms in March clearly stated that, following receipt of the forms, it 
would then let them know if it was able to issue cover or if it needed any other information. 
In addition, the annual statements that Mr and Mrs S received several months later also 
showed that no changes had been made. In these circumstances, I dont think a consumer 
can reasonably assume changes had been made. So, I think Mr and Mrs S were provided 
with enough information that indicated the requested changes werent made to the sum 
assured on their policy. Given this, I think Sun Life was reasonable in highlighting that 
Mr and Mrs S had opportunities to identify the problem and take action to resolve it prior to 
the claim. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S have said they understood the extended cover to be an additional 
benefit that would appear separate to their existing cover. But Im not satisfied this was a 
reasonable assumption given the amendment form clearly lists this as a change to the 
existing benefit. It also doesnt account for the fact Mr and Mrs S never received any 
confirmation that this additional benefit had been put in place. Whilst I recognise Mr and 
Mrs S have also said they werent formerly instructed to check the benefit had increased, I 
think it is commonly accepted that statements should be checked. I would also note the 
covering letter for their statements told them to review this information about your policy 
carefully and especially consider the followingLife Assurance Plans  is the amount of 
cover adequate?
I can understand why this outcome may feel unfair to Mr and Mrs S, given that they have lost 
out when they dont think they have done anything wrong. But I could only ask Sun Life to do something differently if I thought it did something wrong and that this caused Mr and Mrs Ss 
loss  and Im satisfied thats not the case.
My final decision
For all of the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman