DRN-3933618
The complaint
Mr L complains that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (FOL) lent to him when he was not in the 
right frame of mind and that his illness means that it should not have been lent to him. 
What happened
Mr L has explained that he applied for a loan on-line on 31 December 2021. It was approved 
for £400 repayable in four instalments of £193.60 a month each starting 26 January 2022. 
Mr L did not make any repayments and did not enter an arrangement to pay successfully 
and so the loan debt defaulted in June 2022. 
Mr L complained to FOL in December 2022 and received the final response letter in that 
same month. It did not uphold his complaint. It said:
During the loan application process, we carried out sufficient checks to ensure you 
could repay the loan.
However, with regard to mental health, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) which 
regulates the financial services industry has stated the following:
A firm should assume a customer has mental capacity at the time the 
decision has to be made, unless the firm knows, or is told by a person it 
reasonably believes should know, or reasonably suspects, that the customer 
lacks capacity.
Mr L referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our adjudicators 
looked at it. She did not think that FOL had done anything wrong and so did not uphold 
Mr Ls complaint. 
Our adjudicator approached it as an irresponsible lending complaint and did not uphold that 
part. And she considered the medical evidence Mr L has sent to us, but she did not think that 
FOL would have, or ought to have known, of this element of Mr Ls personal life when he 
applied for the loan on-line. Our adjudicator expressed concern at Mr Ls circumstances but 
it was not likely to alter the outcome. 
Mr L disagreed. He thinks that the medical note from his doctor and his explanations about 
the way this loan approval, the collection payments and the default were done and has made 
him feel were enough for the complaint to be upheld. 
At first Mr L wanted the loan to be set aside in some way. Now he appreciates that he needs 
to repay the debt and all he wants is the adverse information and default removed from his 
credit file. He has said he will take FOL to court if the late mark and the default records are 
not removed from his personal credit file.  
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
FOL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L could 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and 
expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that FOL should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But thats not applicable here as Mr L took 
only one loan. 
FOL was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint. And Mr Ls complaint is not purely about irresponsible lending but I have addressed that for completeness. Mr Ls complaint is 
that he acted out of character and when he was not in his right might and so he wants the 
loan to be removed from his credit file records or for the adverse information to be removed 
from his credit file.
Records sent to us from FOL show that he did apply twice on 31 December 2021 at 7 am 
and 1 pm on 31 December 2021. In both applications he had given FOL a monthly income 
figure of £2,500 and that he worked for a company which he had named and he was a 
tenant. 
Mr L inputted no other information which registered as £0 to show he had no outgoings or 
other debts or other credit commitments. Mr L must have given to FOL his home address 
and contact details as it knew he lived in certain city and was able to contact him later when 
Mr L was unable to make the payments. 
FOL explained to us that 
when an applicant inputs zero for all financial commitments, there are minimum 
values we use, as zero is unrealistic, especially in this case where [Mr L] has stated 
that he is a tenant.
We asked them for details and it said that the minimum value applied to Mr Ls application 
was £835 a month and that Our figures are worked out by our data scientist and are based 
on declared commitments of our customers from previous applications.
What happened after that appears to be that Mr L was not able to make the repayments.  
The account defaulted on 9 June 2022 and later was passed to a debt collector.
Mr L complained to FOL in December 2022 and received FOLs final response letter on 
15 December 2022 in which it said 
When you contacted us in April, June and July, we did inform you that we could set 
up a repayment plan to assist you. You said you would complete the income and 
expenditure form and also provide us with medical evidence. However, we did not 
receive these, and therefore no changes were made to your account.
Ive seen email correspondence from FOL to Mr L dated 21 July 2022 which indicates that 
one planned arrangement was going to be £100 a month for 8 months from 21 August 2022. 
And another email of the same date in which it said:
If you need any help regarding your loan, you are going to have to send us any 
documents or doctor's prescriptions that you have regarding your mental health.
I have seen and read Mr Ls complaint email to FOL on 14 December 2022 and it is at that 
point Mr L sent to FOL a letter from his doctor dated August 2022 (which I have seen and 
read). 
I have attached my letter from my doctor explaining my condition, I would appreciate 
it if you could please remove the late marks on the default and if possible the debt
Overall, I have considered the loan application from an irresponsible lending perspective and 
although the information Mr L gave to FOL appears to have been thin, it was enough for it to 
carry out checks and utilise its own data analysis method to fill in the gaps and consider that 
Mr L was able to afford the loan. And as a new customer to FOL and for a relatively modest 
loan of £400 Id not expect it to have done more. FOL was able to rely on the applicants details. Added to which Mr L has confirmed that he is content to repay the loan. And so, I do 
not consider affordability an issue here.
Mr L applied on-line and has expressed amazement in his complaint letter from 
December 2022 that the loan was approved so quickly. But that is the nature of the lending 
business FOL is involved in  quick and often high cost loans to applicants. The FCA 
regulates the lenders and we deal with complaints about them in a fair and impartial way. 
It is not for the Financial Ombudsman Service to comment on or consider aspects of FOLs 
policies or procedures. I am being asked to consider whether the loan should have been 
approved. On the application process and for a first loan of £400 over a loan term of four 
months then I consider that the checks and procedures FOL did were proportionate. 
I have carefully considered Mr Ls very strong opinions and points surrounding his physical 
ailments and his doctors explanation and opinion that he was not in the right frame of mind 
to apply for and obtain a loan on 31 December 2021. 
For obvious privacy reasons I have not given any details in this decision. What I have done 
is consider what the FCA requires a regulated lender to do when an applicant presents with 
issues surrounding mental capacity. And FOL is correct to cite in its final response letter to 
Mr L and in its submissions to us the CONC provisions in chapter 2.10 which is the Mental 
Capacity Guidance. I am familiar with those regulations and I have reviewed them again 
within the context of Mr Ls complaint. 
Mr L says that he was not asked about his very specific health issues when he applied, so 
he says that his personal circumstances were not considered. Mr L says he was not in a fit 
mental state to be able to consider all the implications of the loans.
And reviewing the CONC Guidelines referred to by FOL, I do not consider that there was a 
breach. A firm when granting a consumer credit agreement should consider the 
customer's individual circumstances.
CONC 2.10.4 Guidance states that
A firm should assume a customer has mental capacity at the time the decision has to 
be made, unless the firm knows, or is told by a person it reasonably believes should 
know, or reasonably suspects, that the customer lacks capacity.
And the FCA Guide lists some behavioural indicators which, if the lender observes any, may 
lead to the firm having reasonable grounds to suspect that a customer may have some form 
of mental capacity limitation. These are in CONC 2.10.8 and are a guide list. And having 
reviewed the sorts of flags and behavioural indicators the FCA has listed in CONC 2.10.8 
then these were not going to be apparent when Mr L was making the on-line application on 
31 December 2021. 
And even if FOL did have any grounds, CONC 2.10.7 guidance states this does not 
necessarily mean that the customer does not have the mental capacity to make an informed 
borrowing decision.
So, on this element I find that FOL would not reasonably have known or been expected to 
have known that Mr L may need assistance before applying for on-line credit in the 
circumstances his doctor explained in his letter Mr L has provided. And I do not uphold this 
element of the complaint.
From my non-upholding of the complaint for both irresponsible lending and the part relating to Mr Ls health issues and the CONC 2.10 provisions then the logical extension is that the 
debt was due. It was unpaid and the outcome is that adverse markers were placed on Mr Ls 
credit file. 
The usual approach for the Financial Ombudsman Service is that where a complaint has not 
been upheld then theres no redress for the consumer and so that is the outcome here. 
Having said that I note that in its final response letter to Mr L, FOL was content to reduce the 
debt owed to it by halving the interest due on the loan. And I endorse that approach and 
encourage FOL to honour that as it reiterated it to us in its email recently. 
Mr L was advanced a loan of £400 and that  plus the reduced interest FOL has offered to 
accept from Mr L  needs to be repaid. 
And I remind FOL to approach Mr Ls situation and his debt in a positive manner and with 
sympathy especially as it does now know of his medical issues. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman