DRN-4049689
The complaint
Mr H says Scottish Widows Limited is responsible for providing him with incorrect 
information about the value of his pension income. He says this led him to take decisions 
about his retirement based on flawed information which will have serious consequences for 
his future. He wants it to honour the annuity quotation he accepted.
What happened
Theres broad agreement about what happened in this case.
Mr H took out a personal pension with Scottish Widows in 1988, which had the benefit of a 
guaranteed annuity rate (GAR). The normal retirement age for the plan was age 60. He paid 
monthly contributions throughout the lifetime of the policy. During the period his personal 
pension plan was running he increased his regular contributions. It is established that this 
element of his payments didnt attract a GAR.
In January 2022 Mr H received a pack from Scottish Widows confirming his retirement date 
was approaching and encouraged him to think about his options. Over the next few months 
he was in regular contact with it to understand how much his benefits would be worth at his 
retirement date. 
Mr H had a call with a Scottish Widows retirement consultant to discuss how to take his 
pension benefits on 28 April 2022. During this call, he was informed about different annuity 
options, and it agreed to send him the quotes and illustrations discussed.
Mr H received the quotations on 7 May 2022, confirming what hed been told on the phone. 
There was some to and fro to obtain further quotes, for example to show the effect of making 
a final balancing contribution on the figures. After this he made a decision to accept a 
proposal where hed receive tax-free cash (TFC) of around £48,000 and an annual income 
of about £13,800 which would be paid monthly in arrears. 
Mr H completed the necessary paperwork and returned this along with a cheque for his final 
premium. Scottish Widows received this on 24 May 2022. Mr H turned 60 on 25 May 2022 
and says he gave up his job on the presumption hed be receiving an annuity of nearly 
£14,000. Unfortunately matters didnt unfold as he expected.
On 13 June 2022, Mr H received a letter from Scottish Widows confirming a BACS payment 
had been made for the TFC hed been anticipating. However, it also informed him an annual 
annuity had been set up with an income of just over £11,000 per annum. He immediately 
contacted Scottish Widows to query why the annuity amount had changed.
Scottish Widows called Mr H back on 21 June 2022, and confirmed the reason his annuity 
was less than hed expected was because the quote it sent him had applied a GAR to his 
whole pension pot, this had been an error. The element of his fund which related to 
increased contributions didnt benefit from such.
Mr H was very unhappy about what had happened. He expected to be paid the annuity on 
the quote. And he raised a formal complaint. Scottish Widows sent its final response to him 
on 11 August 2022. It confirmed the error it had made in the quotation hed accepted. It said 
it wouldnt be honouring the incorrect quotation. It apologised for raising his expectations and 
offered to pay him £400 for the distress it had caused.
Mr H didnt accept Scottish Widows offer and he brought his complaint to this Service. An 
Investigator considered his case but didnt uphold it to the extent he wanted. The 
Investigator acknowledged the significant impact on his expectations and plans caused by its 
error, but concluded that ultimately he hadnt been entitled to the higher payment. 
In light of the circumstances of the complaint, the Investigator recommended Scottish 
Widows should increase the payment for the trouble and upset it had caused to £750. Mr H 
disagreed. 
As both parties couldnt agree to the Investigators view, Mr Hs complaint has been passed 
to me to review afresh and to provide a decision. This is the final stage of this Services 
dispute resolution process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint, but not to the extent hed like. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by 
Scottish Widows for Mr H. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of it s 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Scottish Widows. 
As such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Firstly, its clear Scottish Widows are responsible for a serious error. Its concerning Scottish Widows doesnt seem to have had a system in place to identify the 
significant variance between the quote Mr H had accepted and the annuity it went on to 
establish for him without further discussion. Instead it appears to have left him to discover 
the discrepancy.
In supporting its position Scottish Widows provided this Service with statements Mr H had 
received in prior years. These had been calculated on the correct basis and it says wouldve 
shown him roughly what level of annuity he could expect. For example in 2021 it projected 
an annuity worth between £9260 and £10,100. I think the point it makes here is that the 
period of his raised expectations was relatively brief.
In responding to the Investigator, Mr H summarised his position in the following terms:
I phoned Scottish Widows eleven times from around January to May this year [2022] for 
explanations, quotations and answers. I looked at every single option available to me before 
I settled on the quotation for £13,795 and as far as I am concerned, I am entitled to this 
amount because I based living the rest of my life on this figure and that cannot be taken 
lightly otherwise the rest of my life is ruined.
Elements of Mr Hs argument have merit and I think most people would react to what 
happened in a similar fashion. Hed done his due diligence over several months. Although 
Scottish Widows made clear the status of the quotes it provided, for example that they were 
subject to change due to market fluctuations, this wasnt the source of the problem that 
emerged. And it reinforced the error it made on a number of occasions.
In these circumstances, aside from the caveats Scottish Widows provided about the 
quotations, it wasnt unreasonable for Mr H to have been making his retirement plans on the 
basis of the pattern of information it had given him. Anyone would be shocked to find that the 
income they would actually receive for retirement was about 20% less than they had been 
led to believe.
Having said this, I dont think Scottish Widows should be expected to honour the incorrect 
quotations it provided in 2022. Thats because the annuity values shown on those letters 
werent something to which he was entitled. He hasnt actually suffered financial detriment.
Mr H has confirmed if hed received the correct quote at the time, then he wouldve 
considered taking a reduced lump sum and increased his annuity. I think its highly likely he 
wouldve taken his benefits when he reached 60. I say this because his policy included a 
valuable GAR and that wouldve been lost had he not taken an annuity with Scottish Widows 
on the normal retirement date of his policy.
The Investigator looked into the possibility of unwinding Mr Hs annuity, presumably to 
understand if he couldve taken less TFC and increased his annuity. But Mr H told him hed 
already used his TFC to pay siblings in relation to an agreement linked to family inheritance 
matters.
Mr H has suffered a substantial loss of expectation and I think that is where any remedy 
should focus.
Putting things right
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Hs I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Scottish Widows actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or 
upset. Its clear to me this was the case here. 
Following discussions with Scottish Widows in May 2022 Mr H thought he had all the 
information he needed to take a decision about his retirement. Based on what hed been told 
he retired only to find that the annuity to be paid was 20% than he expected. 
Scottish Widows made a serious mistake in its calculations and left Mr H to discover this. 
While it apologised after he complained, explained what had happened and offered him 
£400 in recognition of the things it had got wrong, the Investigator thought in the 
circumstances it should increase this payment to £750. 
I think the Investigators recommendation is fair. I require Scottish Widows Limited to pay Mr 
H £750 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused by the things it got wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint, but not to the extent 
hed like. I now require Scottish Widows Limited to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman