DRN-2811141
The complaint
 Miss R believes Santander Consumer (UK) Plc acted irresponsibly by agreeing a conditional 
sale agreement shed applied for.
What happened
 In June 2019, Miss R was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander. Miss R paid a £500 deposit and the agreement was for £23,280 over 43 
months, with 42 monthly repayments of £429.34 and a final payment of £11,619.50.
Miss R has complained that Santander didnt act responsibly when approving the finance. 
Shes said she made it clear she wanted the finance agreement to be in joint names with her 
partner at the time, because this was the only way it was affordable. And, if Santander had 
carried out affordability checks, then this wouldve been obvious to them. But the finance 
was put in her sole name and, when she separated from her partner shortly after taking out 
the agreement, she couldnt maintain the payments. 
Santander didnt agree theyd acted irresponsibly, so Miss R brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Santander said they carried out the appropriate checks when they approved the finance. But 
they didnt respond to our requests to provide evidence of this. So the investigator couldnt 
confirm whether Santanders checks were proportionate or not. Because of this, she relied 
on the information Miss R provided  her bank statements  to establish what her financial 
circumstances were at the time of the application.
Having reviewed the bank statements, the investigator said Miss Rs average income less 
her average expenditure left her with £31.13 disposable income from which to pay the 
finance payment of £429.34. So the investigator said that, if Santander had carried out a 
income and expenditure check, they wouldve seen that Miss R couldnt afford the payments.
The investigator said Santanders lending decision wasnt fair, and they should cancel the 
agreement and take back the car. She said Miss R should pay for the use of the car while 
she had it but, because the finance shouldnt have been agreed, any payments she made 
above the fair usage figure should be refunded. So the investigator said Miss R should only 
have to pay £375 for each month she had the car.
So the investigator said that Santander should refund Miss R her deposit and all of the 
payments shed made (less £375 for each month she had the car) plus interest. She also 
said Santander should remove any negative information about the finance from Miss Rs 
credit file and, if after any refund had been calculated, Miss R remained in arrears, then 
Santander should arrange an affordable repayment plan.
Santander didnt agree with the investigator, and they provided a copy of the credit search 
theyd carried out when Miss R applied for the finance. But they didnt provide anything to 
show the income, expenditure and affordability checks theyd done at the time. They also 
said that dont offer joint agreements and, if this wasnt suitable for Miss R, then she was 
under no obligation to sign. And they thought the affordability issues resulted from Miss Rs 
change in circumstances and werent an issue when the finance was approved.
The investigator considered the information Santander had provided but said that this didnt 
alter her view  she didnt think Santander had considered Miss Rs income or expenditure, 
so she didnt think the checks carried out were proportionate. Santander still didnt agree, 
saying it wasnt reasonable for the investigator to rely on Miss Rs bank statements when 
they didnt have sight of these at the point the application was made. So theyve asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, there are two 
overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all 
of the circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss R would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Santander make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss R 
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I determine that Santander didnt act fairly and reasonably when considering Miss Rs 
application, Ill also consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss R 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are, but Id expect lenders 
to consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the finance being applied 
for; as well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Ive seen a copy of the application information and of the overview of the credit search 
Santander did at the time of the application. The application doesnt show any income or 
expenditure information and the Affordability Checks section has been left blank. The credit 
search overview shows that Miss R owed £15,800 on 9 active credit accounts, with monthly 
payments of £559. It also shows that Miss R owed £1,508 on credit cards. It doesnt show 
and county court judgements, defaults, payday loans or high cost credit accounts.
Santander have said that Miss R had a good credit score, good repayment history with no 
outstanding defaults or payday loans. This indicates that they had no issues paying back 
credit and no concerns were identified  we are not required under [Financial Conduct 
Authority] regulations to conduct further affordability checks on all customers, and there was 
no reason to do this on this application.I disagree with Santander on this. Miss R was taking out a finance agreement with a 
relatively large payment over an extended period of time. And from what Ive see, Santander 
made no effort to check this was affordable i.e. by completing the Affordability Checks 
section of the application. Instead they relied upon an overview of a credit file and assumed 
that an undeclared income would be sufficient to support the new payments.
Given this, I wouldve expected Santander to do additional checks before making their 
lending decision.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss R could sustainably 
repay the borrowing?
The main additional check Id expect Santander to have done is to check Miss Rs income 
and expenditure to ensure their finance was affordable at the point of application, and to see 
that affordability was sustainable throughout the lifetime of the lending. 
Miss R has provided her bank statements for the period 22 February to 7 June 2019. And 
she signed the agreement with Santander on 3 June 2019. While I appreciate Santanders 
comments that these bank statements werent made available to them at the time; in the 
absence of anything else, I think they give a good indication of what Santander would likely 
have discovered if theyd asked about Miss Rs income and expenditure at the time .
The bank statements show that Miss R had an average monthly income of £2,494.71. And 
her average outgoings for rent, council tax, water rates, mobile phone, TV licence, TV 
package, loans and credit card was £2,094.89 a month. Which leaves a disposable income 
of £399.82 from which Miss R would need to pay essential items such as food and clothing, 
as well as Santanders payment of £429.34.
The bank statements also show that Miss R was reliant upon money from savings, money 
paid to her by friends and family (which she says was repayment of money shed lent them 
in the past), and income from selling clothing etc. through an app  although this still wasnt 
enough to cover the entire cost of the agreement. And, even with this, she was going 
overdrawn on a regular basis. Whats more, Miss R also paid two payments to her energy 
supplier, in March and early June, each in excess of £500. All of this would indicate that Miss 
R was suffering financial difficulties when she took out the finance agreement  difficulties 
which became worse when she separated from her partner a few months later.
Based on this, Im satisfied that, had Santander carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks, they wouldve seen that the finance wasnt affordable or the payments sustainable. 
And they wouldnt have approved the loan. So, in not doing the additional checks Id expect 
them to do, Santander didnt act responsibly when approving the finance.
Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
Putting things right
 As I dont think the finance shouldve been approved, Ive thought about how to put Miss R 
back in the position she wouldve been in if this hadnt happened. So I think that Santander 
should cancel the agreement and take back the car (at no cost to Miss). They should also 
refund the payments shed made, less an amount for her fair usage of the car.Theres no set formula for working out what fair usage should be. So Ive considered the 
amount of interest charged on the agreement overall, Miss Rs usage of the car, and what it 
wouldve cost her to stay mobile in a similar car had she not entered into this agreement. 
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that £375 for each month Miss R had the car is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Santander have challenged this, saying that they are able to confirm the exact amount of 
interest thats been charged on each monthly payment. But, when deciding what fair usage 
should be, I dont think this is the fairest way to calculate it because the amount of interest 
charged on each payment varies every month. And, as detailed above, I think there are 
other considerations which impact what the fair usage payment should be. So, after taking 
account all of the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that £375 a month is fair.
Santander have also said Miss R didnt pay any deposit. But Ive seen a copy of a receipt for 
the £500 deposit Miss R paid direct to the dealership and the corresponding entry on her 
bank statements. The vehicle order form also shows Cash Deposit Paid Today £500. 
But the bank statements Miss R has provided also show that the £500 deposit was refunded 
to her, by the dealership, on 5 June 2019. So, while I cant agree with Santander that Miss R 
didnt pay a deposit, the deposit she did pay has already been refunded to her. So I wont be 
asking Santander to refund this again.
Because of the above, I disagree with the exact remedy recommended by the investigator. 
Ive made Miss R aware of what changes I intended to make and gave her the opportunity to 
make any comments she had on these changes. And Miss R didnt make any comments.
Given this, Im satisfied that Santander should:
cancel the agreement;
arrange to collect the car at no cost to Miss R;
refund everything Miss R has paid, minus a deduction of £375 for every month she 
was in possession of the car to account for her fair usage of it, plus 8% simple yearly 
interest on any overpayments Miss R has made, from the date of the overpayment to 
the date of the refund ; and
remove all adverse information relating to the finance agreement from Miss Rs credit 
file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Miss R a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Rs complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman