DRN-2339494
The complaint
Mr A has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision not to cover repairs to 
prevent future flooding to his home. Mr A made a successful claim under his home and 
buildings insurance policy. Aviva says it will only cover the costs to repair the damage 
caused by the flood.
What happened
In February 2020 the basement of Mr As home was damaged by water ingress after heavy 
rainfall. Mr A says the basement houses the bedrooms for his two children. 
Mr A reported the damage and made a claim to his insurer, Aviva. Aviva instructed a 
surveyor to inspect the damage and validate the claim. The surveyor recommended the 
claim be accepted and for repairs to the damage caused by the flooding to be covered by 
Aviva. 
Mr A wanted his claim to include repairs to the existing waterproofing system to prevent 
future flooding. But the surveyor said this wasnt damaged by the flood. So he said it 
wouldnt be covered. But if Mr A wanted to upgrade the waterproofing system, this would be 
something hed need to consider at his own cost.
Mr A didnt agree, and he asked us to look at his complaint. He said his property wasnt 
protected from further flooding. He said the likely risk of this happening further in the future 
was a lot higher. Mr A said theyre unaware of this happening in the recent past and werent 
informed of any past flooding on the home report when they purchased their home.
Our investigator thought Aviva had acted reasonably. He explained that its responsibility is to 
cover the damage caused by an insured event. As the surveyor reported the waterproofing 
wasnt damaged by the flood, any upgrade Mr A wanted wouldnt be something Aviva would 
include in the claim.
Mr A didnt agree. In summary he said Aviva had a duty to provide long lasting and effective 
repairs. The policy doesnt provide an exclusion for possible defective design. No invasive 
inspection was carried out and Mr A didnt see the surveyors report. Mr A cited a case study 
from our website but wasnt satisfied the investigator had provided enough detail as to why 
the circumstances in his case werent the same. The case study in question related to water 
ingress in a basement. This service had upheld the complaint and required the insurer to pay 
for the installation of a waterproofing system to ensure effective and long lasting repair of the 
incident related damage.
Aviva agreed for our investigator to send Mr A a copy of the reports it relied on when making 
its decision. The investigator explained that he thought the case study wasnt exactly the 
same as Mr As case. And we look at cases individually. 
He referred to email correspondence between Mr A and the surveyor following his 
inspection. This suggested a pre-existing condition with the tanking (waterproofing) system. 
And as the surveyor didnt report any damage caused by the insured event, any 
improvement wouldnt be covered by Aviva. He thought it reasonable for Aviva to only meet 
repairs caused by the flood, and to rely on the professional opinion of the surveyor. 
Mr A didnt agree. After reviewing the reports, he said he hadnt read anything which 
challenges what hes said. He didnt agree that his view about issues relating to the 
installation of the existing waterproofing system before he moved in should be used as he 
isnt qualified to provide guidance. This is also what the surveyor relied on and isnt a 
technical opinion.
Mr A said he received advice that the flooding that occurred in February 2020 would have 
compromised the existing waterproofing system that was previously adequate  but will now 
no longer be. So in his view, this shows the existing waterproofing system was damaged and 
should be covered under the claim.
Mr A told us the basement flooded again in August 2020.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 October 2020. I didnt think Aviva had shown that the 
surveyor had assessed the waterproofing system. It seemed he had largely relied on 
discussions with Mr A after his inspection to decide the waterproofing was damaged. I didnt 
think that was enough or reasonable to form a professional opinion.
So I intended to uphold the complaint. In line with our approach, I didnt think it possible for 
Aviva to carry out long lasting and effective repairs without tanking repair. 
I invited both parties to provide further expert evidence about the tanking and the impact of 
the claim damage upon it. 
Aviva replied to my provisional decision. It has referred to the email exchange between the 
surveyor and Mr A after inspection, which Id considered when issuing my provisional 
decision. Aviva considers this to be a basic issue: that the waterproofing system is not 
damaged but just not up to the job. It says it isnt responsible for upgrading the system to 
prevent any further losses where the existing waterproofing system has not been damaged, 
but was overwhelmed by the volume of water present on this occasion.
Mr A has provided a copy of an invoice from a builder for the preparation of the 
waterproofing and for advice given to the architect for converting the basement in May 1999.
As both parties have replied, the case has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy with Aviva  like all standard insurance policies - doesnt provide cover for 
every eventuality. It provides cover for damage caused by a specific insured event: in this 
case, flood. However, it doesnt provide cover for works to prevent future damage. But the 
repairs it does carry out to the incident related damage should be effective and long lasting. 
Mr A says the converted basement has a tanking system that has worked for many years 
holding back the normal groundwater. 
In my provisional decision I explained that Id read the key email exchanges between Mr A 
and the surveyor following his report dated 24 February 2020. Mr A commented to the 
surveyor that the system is not fit for purpose and flawed, which Aviva has highlighted. It 
says Mr A was aware that the existing tanking system wasnt up to the job. However, I think Mr As comment that the system has shown to be flawed was in response to the flood. As Mr 
A says, he isnt qualified to give an expert opinion on the cause of the damage or whether 
the waterproofing system was adequate 
Aviva instructed a surveyor to provide a professional opinion based on their inspection and 
findings. The surveyor said that Aviva wouldnt deal with repairs to the waterproofing system 
as there is no damage to this. 
I reviewed the surveyors findings dated 24 February 2020. In my provisional decision I said I 
didnt think Aviva had the evidence to support the conclusion that there was no damage to 
the waterproofing system. The surveyor makes no reference to inspecting the waterproofing 
system in his report. It says:
SURVEY FINDINGS  At time of survey if found the basement of the property has 
been affected due to recent heavy rain fall. The insured has concrete floors in the 
basement and pipe style under floor heating which has helped the floor dry out 
quicker than expected. The engineered flooring in the 2 bedrooms is damaged and 
needs lifted and replaced. The floor has cupped and bubbled and needs to be lifted 
asap as there is water trapped underneath. 
The walls are wet and need to be stripped approximately 500 high from the floor in 
each room. The walls are plasterboard and flat finished. The water has flooded 
beneath the property and there are no previous records of this happening. The 
volume of rain has been too much for the drainage to cope and in turn has caused 
the water to gather beneath the property and rising round the perimeter of the 
concrete slabs. The under-floor heating manifold has not been effaced and the 
under-floor heating is plastic pipes so not damaged. This has helped dry the exposed 
floor out.
Since my provisional decision, Aviva has provided no new evidence to persuade me that the 
surveyor inspected the waterproofing system. 
Mr A says he received advice that the flooding in February 2020 compromised the 
waterproofing system that was previously adequate. He says:
Having also spoken to a basement waterproofing company, they have informed me 
that once water finds its way through the waterproofing system as installed, that path 
is now open for future flooding. What this means is that the major flooding that 
occurred in February of this year will have compromised the waterproofing that was 
proven to be adequate will now no longer provide the protection that it has 
previously- hence damage has occurred.
So in his view, this shows the existing waterproofing system was damaged and should be 
covered under the claim. 
Without any new evidence, my view remains along the same lines as in my provisional 
decision. It seems beyond doubt that a repair of Mr As basement without tanking repair 
wouldnt be either effective or long lasting  and that a future ingress of water would be 
inevitable. I appreciate that Aviva describes this work as an upgrade. But I dont think it is 
and that links to the advice Mr A received and the subsequent flood a few months later.
Mr As children slept in the basement before the flood. The basements waterproofing 
system has been in place for around 20 years. And the surveyor said there were no previous 
record of flooding beneath the property. Im satisfied that the basement was watertight before the first flood, but it isnt now. And so for Aviva to properly deal with the clam it should 
make a long lasting repair which includes installation of a waterproofing system. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to include 
installation of tanking in the repairs under Mr As claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman