DRN-3170861
The complaint
Mr C complains about Zurich Insurance PLCs handling of his Buildings Insurance Claim.
All references to Zurich also include its agents.
What happened
My decision focusses on events relating to issues raised by Mr C regarding work at his 
property between August 2019 and March 2020 and his subsequent claim for loss of rent up 
until August 2020. 
Mr C has raised additional issues in a further submission in January 2021. I will not be 
considering these within this complaint, so any reference will be for contextual purposes 
only. However, our service may be able to consider this as a separate complaint if Mr C 
wishes to pursue this.
Below is intended to be a summary of the events that led to this complaint and does not 
therefore include a full timeline or list every point that has been made.
In December 2018, a water leak occurred in another property within the same block 
as Mr Cs property which led to it becoming water damaged.
Mr Cs tenant vacated the property in February 2019 and Zurich accepted Mr Cs 
claim.
Mr C says after drying out work, Zurich appointed contractors in August 2019. 
Mr C says the contractors adhered to no programme or timescales. He also says the
quality of the work carried out was very poor, causing further issues, and requiring 
rectification.
Mr C says because Zurich and its loss adjusters didnt handle the claim correctly, he 
had to get involved in putting the repairs to the property right, taking significant 
personal time where this shouldnt have been necessary. 
Due to the issues and standard of work. Mr C took over completion of works around 
January 2020. Zurich made payments for the work to be completed by contractors 
arranged via Mr Cs property manager.
It was also agreed Zurich would continue to cover loss of rental payments up to 
March 2020, to coincide with the completion of the works.
Work was completed in March 2020, however this was a week before COVID-19 
restrictions, and the National Lockdown.
Mr C says as a result he did not find a tenant to occupy the property until August 
2020 and if the works had been completed in a timely and professional manner by 
Zurich, the flat wouldve been let in October 2019.
Mr C says as the delay was caused by Zurich, it should continue to pay for loss of 
rental income until August 2020.
Zurich accepted there had been issues with the handling of Mr Cs claim and these 
had caused delays. It initially offered Mr C £450 compensation. 
However, there were delays with making payments in settlement of the remaining 
work at the property, so Zurich offered Mr C a further £100 compensation in February 
2020.
Zurich didnt agree it should be required to make further loss of rent payments.
Mr C was unhappy with Zurichs offer. He said the compensation offered didnt cover 
the project managers fees or the time he has spent dealing with the claim.
Mr C says the project manager was required to manage the works due to Zurichs 
failure to sufficiently manage the claim. The project manager was employed by Mr C 
as the letting agent, and he says Zurich obtained the benefit of this local resource.
Our investigator recommended we uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
In summary, he said he was persuaded by Mr Cs comments that if Zurich completed the 
repairs correctly from August 2019, Mr C wouldve been able to acquire a new tenant sooner 
than he did. He felt Zurich should cover further loss of rent and council tax payments up until 
when the property was let in August 2020. 
Our investigator also said as Mr C had to ask his property manager to project manage 
rectification works, it was reasonable Zurich met the costs Mr C had incurred for this.
In addition, considering the impact he felt matters had on Mr C, our Investigator also thought 
the compensation offered by Zurich didnt go far enough.
To put things right he recommended Zurich:
Pay all invoices and fees for the project management of the claim.
Pay for the loss of rental income and council tax payments between 1 April 2020 and
1 August 2020, totalling £2,795.28.
Pay interest at a rate of 8% simple per year on the figure of £2,795.28, calculated
from the dates each payment shouldve been made to the date of this complaint
settlement.
Pay further compensation of £250, for the trouble and upset Mr C has
experienced, in addition to all other previous awards made by Zurich.
Zurich didnt agree with our investigator and requested the case be put to an ombudsman to 
decide.
Further developments
In February 2022, I wrote to both Mr C and Zurich with some initial thoughts as I was 
thinking of reaching a different outcome to our investigator.
I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about Mr Cs complaint. Based on what Ive seen 
so far, Im thinking of coming to a different outcome to our investigator. So before I issue my 
final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply. Ill look at any more comments or
evidence that I get by 16 February 2022. But unless the information changes my mind, my 
final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
I appreciate Mr Cs comments that his agent arranged for flooring to be installed
following other works being completed, to avoid it becoming damaged by visiting
tradesman.
But Mr C had chosen to take over responsibility for arranging works, via his agent, sothe completion of works became Mr Cs responsibility. And so it was for him to 
mitigate any losses.
I can see there was initially a dispute to whether the flooring would be covered. 
Zurich said Mr C was unable to provide them with evidence of what flooring was 
present previously. But it ultimately agreed to cover this cost for the kitchen and 
bathroom as it reasoned it was more likely than not vinyl flooring had been in place in 
these rooms.
I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. But I dont agree this wouldve 
prevented Mr C from continuing with work at the property
Following this Zurich did delay making a payment - which included the agreed
payment for the floor. But Ive not seen anything that persuades me this meant Mr C
couldnt continue with work to the property
Zurich paid Mr C for loss of rent up until March 2020. While its unfortunate Covid and
the national lockdown hit when it did, ultimately as Zurich wasnt controlling the
timescale of the works, I dont think it needs to pay any further loss of rent
Ive considered Zurichs comments regarding compensation, however considering 
the issues regarding the quality of works and the progression of the claim which led 
to Mr Cs decision to take over arranging completion of works, Im intending to direct 
Zurich to pay Mr C a further £250 compensation. I think this, along with the 
compensation already offered by Zurich, fairly recognises the inconvenience he has 
been caused
Mr Cs agent took over management of the claim due to the progress of the claim 
and the issues with the work carried out earlier in the claim. Considering this I also 
think its reasonable Zurich cover the costs incurred by Mr C for his agent to manage 
the works
So in summary Im intending to direct Zurich to:
Pay all invoices and fees for the project management of the claim by Mr Cs agent
Pay further compensation of £250 to Mr C in addition to all other previous awards it
has made
Responses to my provisional findings
Zurich responded to say it disagreed with some of my initial thoughts. It didnt agree it should 
have to pay for Mr Cs property managers fees as it was Mr Cs personal choice to ask them 
to manage the remaining works. Zurich also pointed to a previous decision, with a different 
insurer, made by another ombudsman, in a case it felt involved similar facts.
Zurich also said it felt the compensation already paid or offered to Mr C was fair  and didnt 
agree further compensation should be required.
Mr C didnt agree with my initial thoughts and provided a detailed response in which he 
reiterated several of his original points. Mr C emphasised the consequential impact he 
believed Zurichs actions, and the issues with the work carried out, had on acquiring a tenant 
before the National Lockdown in March 2020.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr C has strong views about what has happened, and he has provided several 
detailed submissions to support his complaint. I want to assure him I have considered these 
very carefully.  
However, my role as an ombudsman is to decide how a complaint should be resolved, 
quickly and informally. That means my decision will focus on what I consider the crux of the 
issue to be. I dont intend to comment on everything Mr C has said or asked, unless I 
consider it relevant to the decision I need to make. But I can confirm I have thoroughly read 
and considered all the evidence presented by both parties
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my intended findings for these reasons:
Quality of work and delays in progress
Zurich havent disputed there have been issues with the quality of work carried out by 
its contractors and have accepted this caused delays.  
Zurich offered compensation to Mr C, and also paid him loss of rent during this time, 
continuing to do so until March 2020 when works were finished.  
But having considered the circumstances, I still dont think this goes far enough. 
I can see from the detailed timeline provided by Mr C he was given dates regarding 
different aspects of work being completed or actioned and that these dates werent 
met. I can also see Mr C details he spent significant time speaking to Zurich 
regarding the progress of works - and several issues with the work had to be raised 
with it that later required correcting. 
There were also delays in making promised payments for remaining work to Mr C, 
which again Mr C needed to take time to contact Zurich to chase. I can see Zurich 
acknowledged this when it offered further compensation to Mr C around February 
2020. 
Considering all the above I remain of the mind Zurich should pay Mr C a further £250 
compensation. I think this, along with the compensation already offered by Zurich in 
the time considered in this complaint, fairly recognises the inconvenience Mr C has 
been caused.
 Further loss of rent
By around January 2020, Mr C, via his Property Manager, was managing the 
completion of remaining work. So, I wont be holding Zurich responsible for time 
taken after this for any remaining completion.
While I acknowledge Mr Cs frustration, and the issues that led to him taking over the 
remaining work, he ultimately would have responsibility to make sure works were 
completed and to mitigate losses by finding a new tenant. 
From the information Ive seen, such as communication regarding payments required 
by Zurich for the work in February 2020, Im not persuaded the property couldnt be 
marketed due to the outstanding issues relating to the claim with Zurich at the 
property at the time.
While Mr C has raised the remaining issues could have harmed his opportunity to 
achieve the maximum rental income, this isnt what happened. The property wasnt 
advertised for rent until March 2020 and while its unfortunate Covid andthe national lockdown hit when it did, Zurich wasnt controlling the timescale of the 
works. So Im not persuaded arrangements couldnt be made to procure a 
prospective tenant sooner, and therefore I dont think Zurich need to pay further loss 
of rent.
Involvement of property manager and costs
I understand Mr Cs comments about the time this matter has taken to sort out, 
however our service does not award compensation for having to complain or would 
we look to do this at a daily occupational rate.
This is one of lifes inconveniences, and in any event, the matter of complaint 
handling itself isnt something that falls within the remit of this service. I do appreciate 
however this has added to the frustration Mr C has felt
As a result of the rectification issues Mr C, via his property manager, took over works 
and I can see they have had an active involvement throughout the claim. While 
Zurich feel it was Mr Cs choice to involve his property manager, I dont agree he 
should have had to involve the property manager as much as he did. And I think this 
only did happen due to lack of communication, concerns with the work carried out 
and the subsequent rectification works that were required. 
Zurich have pointed to a previous decision made by an ombudsman in a case it feels 
involves similar facts. However, from reviewing the decision referenced, this refers to 
a consumer asking for reimbursement of personal costs under a specific section of a 
policy for managing a claim. And as Zurich have rightly pointed out there is not a 
specific cover of this type in Mr Cs policy. So Im not persuaded the circumstances 
here are similar. 
Zurich will also be aware, we arent bound by our previous decisions and we consider 
each case on its own individual facts, taking into account what we think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Having done so, for the reasons Ive already set out I think Mr Cs costs for the 
property managers involvement in rectification works should be covered
Putting things right
To put things right, I direct Zurich to:
Pay all invoices and fees for the project management of the claim by Mr Cs agent
Pay further compensation of £250 to Mr C in addition to all other previous awards it 
has made
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
I direct Zurich Insurance PLC to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman