DRN-3771749
The complaint
Mr O complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc handled an indemnity claim made under 
the Direct Debit Guarantee.
 
What happened
On 28 September 2022 a communications provider (B) collected a direct debit payment from 
Mr Os account with HSBC. The amount collected was significantly higher than previous 
bills. On 1 October 2022 Mr O contacted HSBC and asked it to refund the direct debit. HSBC 
raised a direct debit indemnity claim on 2 October 2022 but Mr O also called to say hed 
dealt with the matter directly with B. The funds were returned to Mr Os account on 3 
October 2022. 
Mr O complained and HSBC sent him a final response. It said the process normally takes a 
working day to complete as it has to be done by a specialist team. In addition, HSBC 
explained that extra pressure caused by other customers asking to complete claims in 
relation to utility bills paid by direct debits had increased the timescales. HSBC didnt uphold 
Mr Os complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Os complaint. They thought HSBC had dealt with 
Mr Os complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr O asked to appeal and said 
the direct debit guarantee required HSBC to issue an immediate refund without investigating 
first. As Mr O asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a service we take all the available information into account, including the relevant laws 
and regulations, when deciding how to fairly resolve a complaint. But our decisions are made 
on a fair and reasonable basis and we focus on how an issue has impacted the customer. In 
addition, we cant fine or punish a business, even if we find it has made a mistake. Any 
compensation we award is made to reflect a financial loss or the distress and inconvenience 
caused. I want to explain that my decision will be made based on whether I think HSBC 
treated Mr O fairly after he raised concerns about the direct debit payment, taking into 
account whether he experienced a loss or an unreasonable level of inconvenience. 
Mr Os explained the direct debit guarantee advised he shouldve received an immediate 
refund after he disputed the amount collected. HSBCs explained it normally takes one 
working day to complete the process. I appreciate Mr Os view that HSBC didnt act 
immediately. But Im satisfied HSBC has to carry out certain checks and administration when 
processing a claim. And I havent seen anything that shows Mr O was unreasonably 
inconvenienced as a result. Whilst I accept the refund was not immediately applied, that 
hasnt led to a loss either. 
The day after Mr O raised his concerns, he contacted HSBC again and explained B had 
agreed to issue a refund. The funds were paid back into Mr Os account the following day. I 
havent seen anything that indicates the way HSBC handled Mr Os claim led to a loss or 
impacted him unfairly. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr O but as Im satisfied HSBC dealt with his complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman