DRN-1294653
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (Direct 
Line) and its decision not to accept a claim made under a travel insurance policy. A close 
relative passed away before a holiday was due to take place, causing it to be cancelled. 
Direct Line declined the claim because the relative had been an in-patient of a hospital due 
to heart related issues in the previous 12 months prior to the booking of the holiday.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Direct Line has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy says clearly that cancellation claims due to the ill-health of a close relative 
are excluded from cover if that close relative had been an in-patient for medical 
treatment for a medical condition in the previous 12 months. The relative in Mr and 
Mrs Ms case had been an in-patient in the 12 months prior to the booking of the trip 
as all accept. This exclusion was mentioned twice within the policys terms and 
conditions. As a matter of law, the claim isnt covered.
And I think its fair and reasonable for the policy to be applied as the treatment the 
relative received in hospital related to his heart. While the death certificate records 
more than one cause of death, I see two secondary causes related to the heart. The 
medical certificate says that heart failure was one of the causes of death too.
While I see that the GP says a date of death couldnt be predicted, that isnt what the 
policy required. And whilst I accept the relative was frail and elderly, that doesnt 
change the fact that the policy did make it clear that the cancellation cover wouldnt 
cover the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms claim. It was their decision that the policy 
met their needs and to take it out.
 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about UK Insurance Limited. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman