DRN-3072578
The complaint
Mr M complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
 
What happened
In June 2019 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a contract hire agreement with 
MBFS. The contract reached maturity in June 2021.
At the end of the contract the car was inspected. MBFS advised Mr M that he was liable for 
damage charges and excess mileage charges.
Mr M disputed the charges. He said the car had been in good condition when he returned it, 
although he accepted that the literature book wasnt returned with the car due to a 
misunderstanding.
In response, MBFS said that the damage charges had been applied correctly. It agreed to 
remove a charge for the screen front, which it said had been incorrectly raised. It said the 
excess mileage charges had been correctly charged because Mr M had a mileage allowance 
of 20,000 and had returned the car with 21,204 miles.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that the damage charges had 
been assessed and applied fairly in line with relevant guidelines.
Mr M didnt agree that he should be charged for the literature pack. He said he hadnt 
realised that this had to be returned with the car and that it was in his possession and could 
be returned to MBFS now.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr M must return the car in good 
condition and that any missing items or damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the 
customers responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether the damage exceeds fair wear and tear.
Mr M accepts the excess mileage charges, so Ive focussed on the charges for damage.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies damage to the LHR wheel rim, front 
bumper and rear bumper. It also says the literature pack is missing. Ive considered the 
damage in line with the BVLRA guidelines and the vehicle returns standards. Based on the 
guidelines Im satisfied that the damage goes beyond acceptable wear and tear because:
- The scuff on the wheel rim is greater than the allowable limits under the guidelines 
and the vehicle returns standards
- The scratches on the front and rear bumpers are greater than the allowable limits 
under the guidelines and vehicle returns standards. The scratches have also 
exposed the primer, which isnt acceptable under the guidelines 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the charges for damage have been fairly applied.
In relation to the missing literature pack, the BVLRA guidance says that all documents must 
be present in the car when its returned. Documents includes the literature pack. Mr M has 
acknowledged that he returned the car without the literature pack. Hes explained that this 
was because he misunderstood what he had to return with the car. Hes also said that he 
has the literature pack and can return it now.
I appreciate that Mr M made an honest mistake when he failed to return the literature pack 
but on balance, and because the relevant guidelines say that all documents must be 
returned with the car, Im unable to say that MBFS has acted unfairly by asking Mr M to pay 
charges for the missing pack. Even if Mr M was to return the pack now, this wouldnt make a 
difference because MBFS is likely to have replaced the pack leady in order that the car can 
be sold.
Ive noted Mr Ms comments about the level of charges. Hes said that the charges for the 
bumper are too high. I can see that Mr M was provided with the vehicle returns standards 
some time before the car was inspected, so he had the opportunity to arrange repairs 
himself to any damage which fell outside the return standards. I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest that the charges imposed by MBFS are unreasonable. The fact that repairs may 
be available at a  cheaper price elsewhere doesnt mean that MBFSs charges are too high 
or unfair. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the charges for damage and missing items 
have been fairly applied, so I wont be asking MBFS to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman