DRN-4216645
The complaint
Mr B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) was irresponsible to lend 
to him.
What happened
Mr B applied for a credit card with Virgin Money on 14 July 2017 and was given the following 
credit limits:
Date Amount
July 2017 £4,300
May 2019 £8,600
Mr B says that at the time he opened his account he already had a number of credit cards 
and an increasing overdraft. He adds that he was only making minimum payments and so 
his limit should not have been increased. Mr B says his debt began to spiral in 2017/2018 
and he was struggling to repay other debts and car finance from his net income. He says this 
had a serious impact on his mental health resulting in him being hospitalised in May 2020.
Virgin Money did not respond to the complaint.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said that, in the absence 
of any information from Virgin Money, he had been unable to determine whether it made a 
fair lending decision. However, based on other information he had seen, our adjudicator 
found Mr B already had significant credit commitments and he didnt consider Virgin Money 
should have opened the account. He said Virgin Money should refund all interest and 
charges, plus 8% if this results in a credit balance on Mr Bs account.
Virgin Money responded to say, in summary, that Mr Bs application met its lending criteria, 
and an appropriate credit limit was assigned. It said it had not received any information 
about Mr B being in financial difficulties before his complaint in June 2022 and that his 
account was up to date with no late or missed payments in the last seven years. It added 
that Mr B had been paying more than the minimum since August 2018 and he met all the 
criteria for an automatic increase in May 2019. Nevertheless, it offered Mr B a £25 goodwill 
gesture and waived interest for the next two months.
Provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr B and to Virgin Money on 31 May 2023. Ive 
summarised my findings below:
I wasnt satisfied Virgin Moneys checks went far enough when it opened the credit 
card account because of his existing credit commitments and the open-ended nature 
of the new credit;
I found it likely that proportionate checks would have indicated:
oMr B was living with his parents and paid no rent;
oHis regular expenditure was around £270;
oMr Bs bank balance did not fall below £1,300 in the lead up to the 
application;
oHe had over £1,000 for other living costs, including food and travel;
So if Virgin Money had carried out proportionate checks, I didnt think it would have 
found that the initial lending was unsustainable for Mr B;
At the time of the credit limit increase I didnt find Virgin Money carried out sufficient 
checks, especially as Mr B had been making minimum payments and hed been 
notified about being in persistent debt nine months earlier;
As Virgin Money confirmed that having a persistent debt marker on an account 
precludes it from receiving a credit limit increase, I didnt find it made a fair lending 
decision in this regard.
In summary, my provisional decision was that I didnt find Virgin Money was irresponsible to 
have approved the initial lending, but I didnt consider the credit limit should have been 
increased when it was.
Virgin Money responded to say that Mr B was selected for a credit limit increase in February 
2019 and was in its low risk segment then and still in good standing in May 2019 when the 
limit was increased. It said Mr B hit stage 2 of persistent debt in February 2021, which 
escalated to stage 4 by August 2022, but he always had a good payment history and the 
highest balance on his account was below £4,300.
Mr B responded to say, in summary, that:
He was not living at home with his parents at the time of the lending, but was paying 
for university accommodation up until September 2017, and also had to commit to 
paying £700 per month (plus a £700 deposit and bills) when he moved for a new job 
at the end of July 2017;
He needed to commit a further £250 per month to pay off an overdraft in August and 
September 2017;
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Virgin Money says Mr B was selected for a credit limit increase in February 
2019, but this was six months after hed received a persistent debt notification as a result of 
the minimum payments on his account. I accept that he didnt move to stage 2 of persistent 
debt until February 2021, but I find that having a persistent debt marker on his account 
should have precluded him from the increase based on Virgin Moneys own guidance.With regard to Mr Bs comments, Ive considered what hes said about his housing. I accept 
he was at university before the credit application, but the last rental payment was on 8 May 
2017. As Mr B told Virgin Money he was living with his parents, paying no rent, I cant see 
proportionate checks would have found otherwise as there did not appear to be any housing 
costs in the lead up to the credit application. Equally, as Mr Bs new rental agreement did not 
start until after the application, and he didnt tell Virgin Money about upcoming changes, it is 
not reasonable to expect Virgin Money to have factored that into its affordability calculations.
I also do not consider there was any way Virgin Money could have known that Mr B was 
going to have to repay £250 per month in August and September 2017 towards an overdraft, 
especially as Mr B himself said hed forgotten about its existence.
So, in conclusion, I have considered the further information provided by both Virgin Money, 
and Mr B, but Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) 
should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied to balances above £4,300 from May 2019.
oIf the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr B along 
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Virgin Money should also remove all 
adverse information regarding this account from Mr Bs credit file.
oOr, if after the rework theres still an outstanding balance, Virgin Money 
should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr B for the remaining 
amount. Once Mr B has cleared the balance, any adverse information in 
relation to the account should be removed from his credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Virgin Money to deduct tax from any award of interest. It 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman