DRN-3557504
The complaint
Mr R complains about Tesco personal Finance Plc reporting a default on his credit card 
account.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr R and Tesco. I wont repeat in 
detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision, Ill mainly focus on giving the 
reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
In May 2020 Mr R let Tesco know that hed unfortunately lost his job due to the COVID-19 
pandemic. Tesco agreed to a COVID-19 payment deferral to end in July 2020. 
In September 2020 Mr R let Tesco know that he was still looking for work and would struggle 
to maintain his minimum contractual repayments. Tesco agreed to apply a payment 
arrangement with Mr R for six months  until February 2021. Under the terms of this plan, 
Mr R would pay £5 per month, no interest would accrue. Tesco also refunded almost £260 of 
fees and interest. 
A default notice was sent to Mr R on 15 March 2021. Mr R says he didnt receive this notice. 
The account was reported as defaulted on 13 April 2021. 
Mr R complained to Tesco. They didnt uphold his complaint and he referred it to our Service 
for an independent review. Our investigator recommended that the complaint not be upheld - 
so its been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Similarly, I wont comment 
on every interaction between both parties here  only the key ones. However, Ive given 
careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Based on what Ive seen, Tesco and Mr R had an agreed payment arrangement for a period 
of six months from September 2020. Having considered what Ive seen of Mr Rs financial 
circumstances at the time this arrangement was agreed, I consider it was fair, supportive 
and positive of Tesco to agree to such an arrangement. This was in addition to previously 
granting Mr R a COVID-19 payment deferral. 
The other main option here wouldve been to extend the COVID-19 payment deferral. But 
given that this wouldve meant interest would continue to accrue whilst Mr R was still 
unemployed, I find that an affordable repayment of £5 per month was in his best interest and 
would slowly reduce the debt owed by the end of the six months instead of the payment 
deferral option - which wouldve actually increased the amount due after three months. In 
short - it gave Mr R a longer period of breathing space to sort his personal financial 
circumstances out. 
Im satisfied that the key terms of this arrangement were sufficiently brough to Mr Rs 
attention during a call with Tesco on 9 September 2020. Crucially, this was also clearly set 
out in a letter sent to Mr R dated. Ive included the key points below:
Please note that by accepting these payments we are in no way modifying or 
abandoning any of our rights under our credit agreement with you for the above 
account.
What you need to do
Make your next payment of £5.00. It needs to reach us by the payment date on 
your monthly statement. Make each future payment instalment on time. [Bold 
added for emphasis by Ombudsman]
What happens if you cant make a payment?
If you can't make this payment, you need to contact us straight away. If you 
dont clear the arrears as agreed or get in touch with us, we will issue you with 
a formal Default Notice. [bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman] This notice will 
give you 28 days to clear the arrears on your account. If you dont make this 
payment, we will then demand payment for the entire amount you owe (not just the 
outstanding payments). We will also file this default at Credit Reference Agencies. 
This will have a serious impact on your credit rating. Other lenders see this 
information and it will impact your ability to obtain credit in the future. If we can come 
to an acceptable arrangement, this could reduce the damage to your credit rating.
In simple terms, Tesco agreed to temporarily deviate from the minimum contractual 
repayment terms Mr R had agreed to when he took out this credit card account. In return, 
Mr R would pay £5 per month. Should Mr R break the terms of the arrangement or not clear 
the arrears by the end of the six months then Tesco would issue a default notice.
Ive also noted Mr R says he didnt receive the default notice and feels it was unfair of Tesco 
to proceed with it. Whilst Ive seen no evidence of returned post or post being undeliverable, 
on balance, Im satisfied that even in a scenario where Mr R didnt receive the default notice 
hed already sufficiently been placed on notice of the consequences of breaking the terms of 
his repayment arrangement with Tesco.
For balance, Ive further considered that theres no evidence that Mr R was in a position to 
restart his minimum contractual repayments or clear arrears in March 2021. Indeed, Mr R 
has told us that he wasnt back in work until later in 2021. 
On balance, it wasnt unreasonable of Tesco to record a default. It wouldve been 
irresponsible of Tesco to allow the debt to continue to increase in these circumstances. I say 
this because there was no indication in March 2021 that:
Mr R would be able to fulfil his minimum contractual repayment obligations; and 
he hadnt been able to do so for an extended period of time (Mr R hadnt made his 
minimum contractual repayment for almost one year at this point); and 
Ive seen no evidence that he tried to contact Tesco towards the end of the 
repayment plan period to discuss his circumstances or his future intentions. Of course, Mr R has my sympathy for the consequences that a default on a credit file can 
have when trying to secure future credit - but Ive to impartially consider all of the evidence in 
this complaint - and I dont find that Tesco have acted wrongly or unfairly.
My decision brings to an end our Services involvement in trying to informally resolve this 
dispute between Mr R and Tesco.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman