DRN-2887083
The complaint
Mr R complains Bamboo Limited (trading as Bamboo Loans) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In March 2015 Mr R applied for, and was given a guarantor loan for £5,000, which was 
repayable over a period of 48 months. Bamboo paid the loan funds to the guarantor for 
onward transfer to Mr R. The loan repayments were around £213 a month, and in total Mr R 
agreed to pay back just over £10,240 over the four years, after interest was added. Mr R fell 
behind on his repayments and Bamboo transferred the loan to a third party in August 2018.
Mr R says Bamboo shouldnt have given him the loan because it wasnt affordable for him 
nor his late mother, who stood as the guarantor. Bamboo says it did check whether the loan 
was affordable, and it also checked Mr Rs credit file before agreeing to lend the money to 
him. Bamboo reviewed its decision to lend to Mr R after he complained and in hindsight, it 
agreed it ought to have looked into Mr Rs credit file more closely. So Bamboo agreed to 
uphold Mr Rs complaint.
To put matters right, Bamboo agreed to reduce the balance of Mr Rs loan account by 
removing all interest and charges from it. This left Mr R owing around £3,300. Bamboo also 
agreed to remove any negative information recorded about the loan on repayment of this 
remaining balance.
Mr R doesnt think Bamboos redress has gone far enough. He thinks Bamboo should clear 
the remaining balance. He says that his late mother (and guarantor to the loan) did not pass 
on the loan funds to him. He argues that he hasnt had benefit of the money. Mr R explains 
that he took out the loan to support his mother during her ill-health because she was unable 
to get a loan in her own right.
Our investigator thought Bamboos actions to put matters right were fair and he didnt think it 
needed to do more. Mr R didnt agree so this complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs complaint. Having done so, I 
agree with the outcome put forward by the investigator and for much the same reasons.
Bamboo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr R irresponsibly. 
It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R 
would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way.
Bamboo did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. But I agree that given 
the amount of money Mr R was borrowing, the information he had provided about his income 
and expenditure, together with the information on his credit file, Bamboos checks werent 
good enough. 
With this being the case, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have 
demonstrated that Mr R would not have been able to make his repayments sustainably. And 
if Bamboo knew, as it now concedes that it ought to have, that Mr R wasnt able to repay the 
borrowing sustainably, Im also not persuaded that it should have lent to him.
Putting things right
Although both parties now agree it was irresponsible for Bamboo to lend, they disagree on 
how to right the situation. On the one hand, Bamboo has followed the approach to 
complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending set out on our website. It has 
offered to remove all fees and charges so that Mr R only repays the cash he borrowed. On 
the other hand, Mr R argues that he hasnt had benefit of the money, and so the lender 
should clear his debt in its entirety.
Mr R says he took out the loan because his mother was unable to get a loan in her own 
right. Im not persuaded by this, and Ill explain why. If his mother couldnt get a loan without 
a guarantor, then Id expect Mr R to have stood as guarantor. But the loan agreement clearly 
shows he was the borrower. The role of the guarantor is to promise to pay in the event the 
borrower cannot. And as we now know, his credit history meant Mr R was unlikely to have 
been accepted as guarantor. His mother, however, was accepted as guarantor to his loan 
and so I think it is just as likely that she could have got a loan in her own right.
Mr R explains that he took out the loan to support his mother during her ill-health and she did 
not pass on the loan funds to him. He has supplied copies of his bank statements from the 
time but these show transactions only up until February 2015 and he took out the loan in 
March. In any event, I think we would need to see his late mothers account statements 
showing the credit of the loan funds by Bamboo and her subsequent transactions. But I note 
Mr Rs conversations with our investigator about his power of attorney and access to his 
mothers bank account ending when she died (and so he cannot provide copies of her 
account statements). So, on the strength of the evidence before me, I cannot reasonably say 
Mr R did not have benefit of the loan funds  particularly as it seems his power of attorney 
gave him access to his mothers bank account before she passed away  and so I cannot 
reasonably ask Bamboo to clear his debt.
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in 
now if the mistakes the business made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Mr R in the position he would now be in if he hadnt 
entered the loan agreement in question. However, this isnt straightforward in this case. I 
cant undo whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr R back in the position he 
would be in if he hadnt taken out the loan.
Instead, I must consider another way of putting things right fairly and reasonably given the 
circumstances of this complaint. I think the overarching principle here is that neither party 
should profit from the irresponsible lending. So Bamboo cannot benefit by adding interest to 
the debt. And in the same way, Mr R cannot benefit from the funds he/his late mother 
received  he has had the money for the purpose he borrowed and its fair that he should 
pay it back.The approach to complaints about unaffordable lending set out on our website includes how 
to put things right. It explains that if a borrower has a complaint upheld and theres still an 
outstanding balance on the credit, well usually tell the lender to remove all the interest and 
charges applied from the start. This effectively is what Bamboo has agreed to do and it 
leaves Mr R owing around £3,300. Im satisfied this is a fair way to settle this complaint. 
I also think it is fair for Bamboo to remove adverse information recorded about the loan 
agreement in question. So, once Mr R has repaid the outstanding balance, Bamboo should 
remove any negative information recorded on Mr Rs credit file as a result of the 
unaffordable lending.
In summary, Bamboo should remove all interest and charges from the debt if it hasnt done 
so already. Once the debt is settled, it should remove any negative information recorded on 
Mr Rs credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct Bamboo Limited 
(trading as Bamboo Loans) to put things right for Mr R in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman