DRN-2074611
The complaint
Mr S complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited has unfairly limited 
the amount it will pay his solicitors to pursue a claim on his legal expenses policy.
What happened
Mr S made a claim on his policy for the legal costs of pursuing a dispute against his 
employers. He appointed a solicitor of his own choice and asked his insurers, DAS, to fund 
their hourly rate of approximately £300 plus VAT.
DAS accepted the claim and agreed to instruct Mr S chosen solicitor. But it said the most it 
would pay was £100 per hour  as set out in the policy terms and conditions. It said Mr S 
could pay the difference, or use one of DAS preferred solicitors.
Mr S wasnt happy, so he brought a complaint to our service and our investigator upheld it. 
She said DAS hourly rate was below the county court guidelines for a solicitor with the 
required amount of experience in the location of the claim. So she asked it to increase its 
contribution to £165 plus VAT per hour.
Mr S accepted this outcome but DAS didnt agree. It said its policy was clear on what it 
would pay per hour and it didnt think it needed to offer anything more. So the complaint was 
passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision saying I did not intend to uphold the complaint, for the 
following reasons:
The policy terms set out the extent of cover available to Mr S. The relevant term says the 
most [DAS] will pay in costs and expenses is no more than the amount [DAS] would have 
paid to a preferred law firm. The amount [DAS] will pay a law firm (where acting as an 
appointed representative) is currently £100 per hour. This amount may vary from time to 
time.
As DAS is responsible for paying the legal costs incurred on this case, Im satisfied its fair 
for DAS to restrict what its willing to pay, as long as any restriction is reasonable. The policy 
terms around the hourly rate, in my opinion, are sufficiently clear so I think it can reasonable 
apply them to Mr S case. There is scope for that rate to vary and that may be appropriate 
where, for example, the case is particularly unusual or complex. I havent seen anything to 
show me thats the case here, or that solicitors offered by DAS would not be able to deal 
with it.
There is relevant law that allows Mr S the freedom to choose his own solicitor, where its 
necessary to start legal proceedings. But insurers can limit that choice, provided any limits 
dont make the choice meaningless. That being the case, Ive thought about whether DAS 
hourly rate unreasonably restricts this right.
DAS has confirmed that it has a number of solicitors that are willing to work at this rate. And 
its preferred law firm has agreed to take this case at £100 per hour. As DAS is able to offer a 
choice of different solicitors that could deal with Mr S claim, I dont think the policy limit on 
costs restricts Mr S choice of solicitor so much as to render it meaningless. Mr S says he 
needs to appoint a firm in London. I havent seen anything to persuade me the choice of 
solicitors DAS has available would not be able to deal with the case. Though  in the spirit of 
treating their customers fairly  if Mr S were to provide legal advice showing his case was 
particularly complex and could only be dealt with by the firm he has chosen, Id expect DAS 
to consider that.
As the policy is clear what DAS will pay for a solicitor, and its able to offer Mr S a choice of 
solicitors who can deal with the case for that amount, I dont think DAS needs to offer Mr S 
any more than the rate set out in the policy terms.
Replies to the provisional decision
DAS replied to say it accepts the provisional decision. Mr S has confirmed that he has 
received it and has nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in the provisional decision why I think DAS is able to limit the costs it pays to 
£100 per hour; this is in line with the policy terms and, since it is able to offer a choice of 
solicitors who can deal with the case, its in line with the legal position too. Neither party has 
provided any further comments. In these circumstances it remains my view that the way 
DAS has dealt with the claim is in line with the policy terms and is fair.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman