DRN-2184989
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Moneybarn No. 
1 Limited (Moneybarn) was not of satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. The car here was 
was about four and a half years old and had completed about 54,000 miles so I think a 
reasonable person would expect some wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Moneybarn were responsible for its 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Here, Mr M reported the faults within six months, but Im persuaded the business have 
provided evidence that the fault was most likely to have developed through wear and tear 
and that it wasnt therefore present or developing at the point the car was supplied to Mr M. I 
say that because the independent inspector who is an expert on these issues has explained 
that the fault with the coolant header tank and the leak was unlikely to have been present at 
the point of supply and because I think if there had been a developing problem Mr M would 
have been unlikely to have been able to complete the 13,000 miles he had since inception of 
the finance.
So, I dont think there is sufficient evidence here that the car was of unsatisfactory quality 
and I dont think Moneybarn need to take any further action.
Mr M has also complained that he wasnt provided with a V5C document. Moneybarn have 
offered to pay for a replacement on provision of the receipt from Mr M and I think, in the 
circumstances, thats fair and as much as they need to do here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman