DRN-3380980
The complaint
Mrs C complains because Phoenix Life Limited trading as SunLife (SunLife) sold her a 
Guaranteed Over 50 Plan and she understood the plan would pay out £13,000 in the event 
of her death. However, she found out it would only pay out £4,540 and the contributions she 
would pay into the plan could amount to more than what would be paid out in the event of 
her death.
 
What happened
In 2009 Mrs C took out a Guaranteed Over 50 Plan with SunLife. However, she realised the 
fixed cash sum was less than she expected and cancelled the policy in 2018.  Mrs C 
contacted SunLife to complain in May 2020.  
SunLife responded to the complaint and explained the plan was designed to provide Mrs C 
with life cover. They explained the policy was taken out on a direct sale basis and no advice 
was given. Also, they said any mailing would have explained how the policy worked and the 
risk she could pay more in than the policy would pay out. They also said they would have 
provided a welcome pack including policy documents explaining how the plan worked. 
Following this, there was some further complaint correspondence in which SunLife reiterated 
their position. However, Mrs C remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. 
The Investigator issued a view and explained why she felt SunLife hadnt done anything 
wrong. She said they hadnt advised Mrs C on the suitability of the policy but felt they had 
given clear information about how it worked. 
Mrs C didnt agree with the view and called the Investigator to explain this. Mrs C explained 
she didnt get the policy documents, so she didnt know what the terms were. She said she 
kept very good records and if she received them then she would still have a copy. Also, she 
felt the policy was very unfair and could see it was still being advertised. Overall, she feels 
strongly that SunLife should refund her contributions. 
As Mrs C didnt agree with the view, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs C is concerned these types of policies continue to be advertised and she 
feels people taking them out dont fully understand what they are paying into. However, my 
role is to decide whether SunLife acted fairly and reasonably in respect of the service they 
provided specifically to her, rather than comment on industry practice generally. 
Firstly, SunLife have maintained they didnt provide any advice when selling the policy. Ive 
reviewed the point of sale documents and cannot see any reference to advice. Therefore, 
Im content this was a non-advised sale. This meant Mrs C couldnt expect to receive advice 
on the suitability of the policy. Nevertheless, I would expect to see SunLife provide clear 
information about how the policy worked so Mrs C could make an informed decision. 
Ive also thought about what Mrs C has said about not receiving the policy documents. I 
dont doubt what she has said here. However, its usual for such policy documents to be sent 
out at the point of sale. SunLife have also provided a copy of the cover letter which 
demonstrates it was sent in December 2009. Ive checked the details and I can see the date 
and address are consistent with the details weve been provided. 
So, whilst Mrs C did not receive the documents, Im content its likely SunLife sent them to 
her. Therefore, they took reasonable steps to ensure she had the relevant information. Also, 
if Mrs C hadnt received information about the policy as she could have expected when 
taking it out, then it was open to her to get in touch with SunLife and request it. 
I can see the welcome pack included the policy schedule, summary, terms and conditions 
and cancellation rights. The policy schedule stated the fixed cash sum payable would be 
£4,540 on death after two years of taking out the policy. If Mrs C were to die before the two 
years, then all premiums paid plus half as much again would be paid out. Im content this 
was appropriately clear.
The schedule also confirmed that there would be no cash-in value at any time. The policy 
summary confirmed that Mrs C could cancel her policy at any time, but if this was outside of 
her 30 day right to cancel, then she would receive nothing back. 
Also, in the terms and conditions SunLife explained that depending on how long the policy 
holder lived, the total premiums may be greater than the cash sum payable on death. I can 
understand what Mrs C has said about the contributions exceeding the amount the plan 
would pay out. But Im content SunLife made this reasonably clear in the initial policy 
documents. They outlined this could be the case depending on how long the policy holder 
lived, said there would be a fixed cash sum after two years, and that the policy would 
continue for the whole of the policy holders life providing the premiums continued to be paid.  
I can see on 29 October 2018 Mrs C wrote to SunLife and asked what they would do with 
the money on her account since she had cancelled her policy. But as Ive outlined above, the 
initial policy documents were sufficiently clear in explaining that she could expect to receive 
nothing back. 
Mrs C called SunLife about her complaint in June 2020. Shes told us that the call handler 
was rude because she was told the contributions were non-refundable. Ive reviewed the call 
note and I appreciate Mrs C remained unhappy with what she was being told by SunLife. I 
can also see they followed this telephone call up with a further letter reiterating their position. 
Having considered this, Im of the view SunLife reasonably sought to address Mrs Cs 
concerns although I do understand Mrs C didnt agree with this.  
Overall, Im not persuaded SunLife have done anything wrong here. I appreciate how 
strongly Mrs C feels about her complaint and that the plan was unfair. Also, that she wants a 
refund of her contributions. So, I know my decision will be particularly disappointing for her. 
However, Im content SunLife took reasonable steps to ensure the terms of the policy were 
clear. This included the fact that Mrs C might pay more in contributions than the policy would 
pay out. They didnt advise her on the suitability of the policy, but it does seem they sought 
to provide appropriate information to enable her to make an informed decision. I wouldnt 
have expected them to do anything further in the circumstances. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman