DRN-2684963
The complaint
Mr C complains about ongoing address problems on his TSB Bank plc accounts.
What happened
Mr C says he complained to TSB about correspondence sent to his home address in Cyprus 
which left out his house number. He says he can see the address recorded correctly online, 
but statements have the number missing. Mr C says he has made a number of calls to TSB 
about this issue and has incurred costs in trying to sort matters out. He says he has been 
caused stress and inconvenience and the £25 compensation offer is not enough. Mr C says 
he told TSB about this issue again in 2020 and it incorrectly thought his complaint was about 
a missing statement not the address issue.
TSB says it issued a final response to Mr C in 2018 in which it accepted making a mistake 
about online banking and the address issue. It says it paid £150 compensation and £105 for 
Mr Cs expenses. TSB says it paid £25 compensation in June 2020 for that part of the 
complaint. It says the address is now correctly recorded and says it told Mr C it would not tell 
him when that was done in its final response letter in 2018. It also says Mr Cs accounts are 
all set up for paperless communication and so there should be no further statements sent via 
the post.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. She thought TSB had 
dealt with address issue in 2018 and told Mr C it wouldnt update him when the address 
issue was fixed. She also accepted TSB had misunderstood Mr Cs 2020 complaint but 
thought it had paid £25 compensation in any event. The investigator thought TSB had paid 
for Mr Cs expenses which she though would have been mainly incurred in 2018.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and in summary says his complaint shouldnt have been 
closed if it wasnt resolved and TSB should have told him when it sorted out the address 
issue. He says the 2018 compensation wasnt for the address issue but for online access 
problems and says no account has been taken of the additional stress and inconvenience he 
has been caused. Mr C says he has statements from 2019 that show the address issue was 
not sorted out and there could have been a breach of his personal data.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision.
I have looked carefully at TSBs final response letter in 2018. I can see that it dealt mainly 
with two issues- the online banking problems and the address issue, and that TSB paid 
compensation and paid £105 towards Mr Cs expenses. So, Im satisfied that TSB did deal 
with address issue in that response and did pay compensation for what took place. Im also 
satisfied that TSB clearly told Mr C in that letter that it wouldnt update him when the address 
issue was fixed. That letter also told Mr C that he had six months to bring any complaint to 
us. I make clear that Im not being asked to consider if that outcome was fair and reasonable 
and Im asked to consider what took place largely in 2019 and 2020 and the ongoing 
address issue.
I can see that TSBs records have Mr Cs address correctly recorded and have confirmed 
that the accounts are set up for paperless communication. So, I think it unlikely there should 
be any ongoing issues and can see that although Mr Cs house number was missing in 
some of the statements, he still appears to have received them. I can only consider what did 
take place and not what may have happened. I have not seen any evidence that Mr Cs 
personal data was accessed by others and it would be for the Information Commissioners 
Office to make any formal findings on such matters.
There is no question that TSB made a mistake by concluding Mr C was complaining about 
not receiving statement 15 when he was complaining about the number being missing from 
the statement. I appreciate Mr C would have been caused frustration in those circumstances 
but think that £25 compensation fair and reasonable. I dont think that mistake resulted in 
any financial loss or would have had a significant impact on Mr C.
Overall, Im satisfied TSB fairly explained to Mr C that it wouldnt tell him when the address 
issue would be fixed. I appreciate Mr C says he would have expected TSB to have told him 
but its not our role to tell a business how it runs that business as we are not TSBs regulator. 
In any event I think the problem was sorted out in 2019 and Mr Cs accounts are now set for 
paperless communication. In those circumstances I dont require TSB to do anything further 
in the circumstances of this complaint and am satisfied this brings an end to what we in 
trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman