DRN-1747772
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1990. Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them in case either 
of them was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was around three decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So its very understandable that neither side have the original documents from the time. 
Indeed, under data protection rules, Halifax were required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Hs data 
rather than hold onto it for too long. Mr and Mrs H dont remember choosing PPI, and I also 
think thats understandable since memories can and do fade over time, buying insurance is 
not often memorable, and this sale was particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about 
whats most likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mr and Mrs H into having 
PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with its sales process from the time. And this particular sale was too long 
ago for me to reasonably expect Halifax to be able to produce documents from the time to 
defend itself now. So I have no fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled Mr or Mrs 
H. I think its more likely that it followed a relatively normal sales process, offered them a 
choice, and that they chose PPI at the time  though I can completely understand if they no 
longer recall doing so after such a considerable length of time.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr and Mrs H, 
Ive assumed it did. That means Halifax had to check the PPI was right for them  and based 
on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like 
Mr and Mrs H were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its main exclusions 
or limitations.While Mr and Mrs H had benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those 
and offered them significantly more comprehensive cover. It also meant they could 
effectively protect their savings and use them for other things, instead of potentially having to 
sacrifice one asset to save another. I also understand Mr and Mrs Hs family may have been 
happy to help, but there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And 
the mortgage was Mr and Mrs Hs responsibility, not anyone elses, so I dont think it 
wouldve been suitable for Halifax to recommend they relied on other people to pay it. Its 
worth bearing in mind that this mortgage was a very significant, long-term commitment. 
There was no guarantee that Mr and Mrs H would have the same benefits or savings 
available in the many years to come, and if theyd fallen behind on the repayments they 
couldve lost their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve been useful for them in protecting 
their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr and Mrs H werent affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs H could cancel it 
at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr and Mrs H mentioned that weve found many other policies to have been mis-sold, 
and I understand why theyve raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, 
were suitable in different circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, 
and so on. So if one given policy was mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that a different 
one was, too. Ive explained above why I have not found that this particular policy was mis-
sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman