DRN-2963910
The complaint
Mr B complains that a debt collection agency is asking him to repay a credit card account 
that he says he didnt take out. He says that he never had a card with Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
What happened
Mr B said he was being asked to repay a credit card debt for a card held with Barclays, but 
Mr B said he never had a card with Barclays. He wanted Barclays to show him a full history 
of this account that it thought hed had there, including statements and a default notice. He 
also wanted it to explain its failure to contact him. 
Barclays said Mr B had previously had an account with a different credit card provider, which 
I wont name here. That account was opened on 9 October 1999.
On 19 September 2008, Mr Bs old account migrated to Barclaycard, along with all the other 
credit card accounts from this provider. By that time, Mr Bs account had already been 
defaulted due to non-payment. So no further account statements were produced. 
Barclays said that, because of the length of time that had passed, it didnt have access to 
any of Mr Bs old statements from before the account migrated to it. But it did have the old 
credit card agreement Mr B had originally signed, and it sent us a copy of this.
Barclays said that Mr B had been making payments of £25.00 per month from 22 June 2009 
until 16 April 2018. After Mr B stopped paying towards this debt, Barclays said it then sold Mr 
Bs account to a third-party debt collector. That third party is now the legal owner of the debt.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that, although he 
understood that Mr B has expressed concerns about the level of proof our service has 
received about this debt, our assessments are made on the basis of what we believe is most 
likely to have happened. And theres no legal obligation for businesses to maintain records 
for an indefinite period of time, so full documentation for a debt as old as this one isnt 
generally available. Our investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for the default notice or 
statements for this account to no longer be available.
Our investigator said that Mr B had accepted the application showed his details and 
signature. And Barclays has shown us records of regular payments to the debt continuing 
through to 2018. So our investigator said he thought Barclays hadnt been unfair. 
Mr B replied to say that what wed said left many questions unanswered. He wanted 
answers. Mr B said that Barclays had written to him on 9 January 2021, and said it would 
write again by 20 January 2021, but it hadnt sent anything. He said Barclays hadnt told him 
that the account "migrated" in 2008 but had said this to us. He wanted to know why. He said 
Barclays had also not told him that the account went to debt collection, with payments being 
made to the debt collection agency from 2008 till 2018. He wanted to know the name of this 
agency, and if it had purchased the debt. 
Mr B said hed never suggested this was fraud, he had just asked for complete records of 
this account. He said he hadnt seen any of the records of regular payments to the account, 
again Barclays had only sent this to us. He said if payments had been made for ten years, 
then surely the debt was paid? Otherwise he would surely have been chased in 2018? He 
wanted to know how Barclays could pass a debt on and at a later date take it back. He 
wanted to know who he had agreed a repayment plan with, and who had been receiving his 
payments. 
Mr B said he wanted answers to each and every one of his questions, and he said hed 
expect we have the necessary access to the relevant financial institutions involved.
This case then came to me for a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr B has expressed concerns that he didnt receive a promised letter from Barclays, and 
also asked why Barclays has said so much more to our service about this debt than it has 
said to him. It appears, from what Mr B has said, that he hasnt received Barclays complaint 
response letter, which sets out much of the above. Barclays sent this to Mr B on 15 January 
2021. Our service will forward that letter to him. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Barclays sold Mr Bs debt in 2008. It has told us that 
it asked an agency to help it recover the money Mr B owed, and told us that Mr B first made 
payments by post, then made payments directly to Barclays, in a branch. Its not at all 
uncommon for a bank to ask an agency to collect a debt for it. If a bank does that, then the 
bank remains responsible for the debt. And it looks like thats what happened here. So 
between 2008 and 2018, the money was still owed to Barclays. 
Mr B said that if hed been paying for all this time, then surely the debt would be paid off? I 
can see that when Barclays took on responsibility for Mr Bs card account, he owed around 
£7,300. After making a series of payments of £25, Mr B owed Barclays £3,312.77 when the 
last repayment was made to Barclays. But Barclays cant tell Mr B how much he owes now, 
because it has sold this debt. So if Mr B would like a total of the current debt owed, he can 
ask the business which now owns this debt.
No payments have been made to this debt since April 2018. I dont know whether Mr B was 
asked again to pay at this point or not, but I dont think that affects whether this debt is in fact 
Mr Bs or not.
In a situation like this, its also not uncommon for a bank to then decide to actually sell a 
debt, at which point all ownership and responsibility for the debt passes to the new owner. 
Barclays told us it did this in December 2019. 
Although Mr B has set our service a long list of questions, and said that he wants answers to 
all of these, its my role here to provide an independent adjudication on the complaint he 
originally made. And I think that Ive seen enough evidence in this case to decide whats 
most likely to have happened. Mr B appears to be concerned about how barclays previously 
owned this debt, as he doesnt recall having a card with Barclays, and also concerned about the history of the debt. I think that Barclays has done enough to explain this, and Im 
satisfied that what it has told us is the most likely explanation. Im also satisfied that Barclays 
hasnt behaved unfairly or unreasonably to Mr B. So I dont think his complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman