DRN-1164101
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) wrongly debited 
his account with a travel insurance premium. It didnt respond to his complaint and a further 
sum was debited. He complained again and AMEX ignored his letters and failed to close his 
account when he instructed it to.
What happened
Mr Ms account was debited with £85.86 in February 2018. The payment was the renewal 
premium for a travel insurance policy. He contacted AMEX to dispute the payment, 
explaining that hed cancelled his travel insurance policy in September 2017. He didnt 
receive a reply from AMEX and the same amount was debited again in February 2019. 
He complained to AMEX again and had to write several times before he received a 
response. 
AMEX said it had replied to his complaint in 2018 and sent him a copy of its letter. It said the 
premium was for a policy in the name of a family member and that the policy holder would 
have agreed to the policy being renewed each year. It apologised for failing to reply to 
Mr Ms letters and paid him £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused. It closed his 
account as hed requested.
Mr M said AMEX ignored instructions for policies not to be renewed and that it should be 
fined. And he wanted compensation for the time hed spent trying to resolve the matter.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
the policy holder needed to cancel the policy to stop the premium payments. He thought the 
compensation already paid was fair and reasonable.
Mr M didnt agree saying, in summary, that £75 is derisory for the impact of the stress this 
matter has caused him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M complains that he didnt authorise for a policy to be automatically renewed so AMEX 
should not have allowed his account to be debited. I find Mr M had given instructions for a 
policy in his own name not to be renewed. But the payment he is disputing is for a policy in 
the name of a family member. Our investigator set out what needed to happen to prevent 
future premiums being charged.
I havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr M didnt authorise the premium in year one. 
And, because the policyholder didnt cancel the automatic renewal, I dont find there is any 
obligation on AMEX to refund the premiums charged in the following years.
Unfortunately, Mr M did not receive AMEXs reply to his complaint in 2018. So Im not 
surprised he was frustrated when the premium was debited to his account again in 2019. But 
I dont find this was because AMEX had done anything wrong  it had written to Mr M in 
2018 to explain what had happened.
AMEX acknowledged it provided poor customer service when Mr M complained in 2019. I 
am aware Mr M would like considerably more compensation than AMEX paid him. But, after 
careful consideration, I find £75 to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances here. In 
coming to this conclusion Ive taken into account that AMEX hadnt done anything wrong in 
allowing Mr Ms account to be debited and that it had provided Mr M with an explanation in 
2018.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman