DRN-3837578
The complaint
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision, for clarity, I 
repeat it here.
Miss A complains that she was given advice by Abbey Financial Services (NI) Ltd (Abbey) to 
switch her personal pension (PP) plans with Aviva and Royal London, to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) with Intelligent Money (IM). She states she was then subsequently 
advised to move the monies again to another SIPP with YorSipp Ltd.
Miss A believes the advice was unsuitable and shes lost out financially because of Abbey 
and, would like to be put back in the same position as if the transfers had not taken place.
Miss A is being represented by a third party, but for ease, Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by Miss A.
What happened
In October 2017, Miss A met with an Adviser from Abbey to review her retirement planning 
needs. 
At the time, she held PPs with Friends Provident (Aviva) and Royal London totalling 
£247,000. Abbey subsequently advised she move those funds into a SIPP with IM. The 
Adviser recommended a discretionary fund management (DFM) portfolio that would be 
separately managed by a firm called Horizon. At the same time, Abbey would then provide 
an ongoing advice service to her. 
After the monies had been transferred to IM, Abbey decided against using Horizon to 
manage Miss As funds. They said their due diligence at the time highlighted some changes 
to key personnel which they felt, impacted their confidence in using them. 
So, in January 2018, Abbey wrote to Miss A explaining why they didnt think it was a good 
idea to proceed with Horizon anymore and put forward a new, alternative solution. Abbey 
recommended Miss A move her consolidated funds to a new provider, YorSipp. This time, 
they decided against using an external discretionary fund manager and recommended she 
invest in a portfolio constructed by themselves.
Miss A agreed to the revisions on 7 January 2018. The transfer took place shortly thereafter 
and, on 24 April 2018, the Adviser contacted Miss A to let her know her funds had been 
successfully moved across to YorSipp. Until this point, Miss As monies had been sat in 
cash. Abbey said theyd held off investing the monies because of the market volatility. 
Abbey then asked Miss A for approval to move her monies into the portfolio theyd 
constructed. They said by this stage, the markets, in their view, had settled to the point 
where it appeared to be appropriate to invest.
Miss A explained to Abbey that she was happy for them to proceed with the investment. She 
told them however, that her health had since deteriorated. She went on to say that shed 
applied to access her pension early and take the 25% tax free lump sum. She said she 
needed the funds to make adaptations to her home.
In October 2020, Miss As representative complained to Abbey on her behalf. They said they 
didnt believe transferring her two PPs was in her best interest. They also said, in summary:
They didnt believe Abbey had taken full account of Miss As wider circumstances and 
were negligent in the advice theyd provided. They felt the plan arranged was high risk 
and not suitable for her. They went on to say that, given she wasnt working and had 
limited finances, she didnt have the ability to take risks at the level Abbey had proposed.
They didnt believe it was appropriate to include non-standard, high risk investments.
Abbey issued its final response letter on 22 March 2021, declining her complaint. They 
stated they were satisfied the recommendations they made were suitable for her. They also 
went on to say, in summary:
They didnt agree with Miss As assertion that her attitude to risk, capacity for loss and 
wider financial circumstances hadnt been thoroughly explored before making the 
recommendation.
They said they took her health in to account when formulating their solution. Abbey said 
it was themselves who actually helped organize her access to the pension lump sum she 
needed, to make alterations to her home.
They didnt agree her ATR shouldve been categorised as low. They felt their balanced 
assessment was accurate. They went on to say the risks in the new plan were lower than 
those of her existing plans.
They didnt believe shed been financially disadvantaged as the charges on the SIPPs 
shed moved to, were low in comparison to where shed previously invested.
Abbey said moving Miss A to the second SIPP was done so purely with her best 
interests in mind. It was done to lower chargers further. They explained that Miss A had 
actually made a profit as a consequence of their advice.
Dissatisfied, Miss A brought her complaint to this service on 23 April 2021.
Abbey told this service they believed Miss As case was without merit and reiterated the 
points they made in their complaint resolution letter. They also said, in summary:
Miss As health was front and center in their advice to her. By undertaking the switch, it 
enabled her to access her pension monies early and ensure any remaining monies were 
left to her sister on her death.
They believe Miss A was better off by around £6,200 as a consequence of the actions 
they took for her.
They also made the point that despite what Miss As representatives had suggested, 
they had not made any recommendation to invest in any non-standard or unregulated 
investments.The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She concluded that Abbey hadnt 
treated Miss A fairly. She wasnt satisfied the two transfers were in Miss As best interests. 
She also said, in summary:
She wasnt convinced the replacement plans were cheaper as the information within the 
suitability report wasnt clear. She felt that once the dealing charges were combined with 
the wrapper charges and initial cost of advice fee, Miss A would be worse off.
There appeared to be no comparison of the previous plans performance against the 
new, proposed investment and what the new funds would need to achieve to match or 
better her existing plans.
There didnt appear to be any evidence Miss As circumstances warranted having her 
monies managed on an individual, bespoke basis, along with the extra cost that entailed.
There was limited evidence she had the capacity to accept risk given the fact she was on 
a low income derided purely from benefits.
Abbey however, disagreed with our investigators findings. They said they stood by their 
original advice. They also said, in summary, the following:
They didnt believe Miss As representatives had raised the use of a DFM as a concern 
and as such, didnt believe this service shouldve focused on that as a reason to uphold 
her complaint.
They explained Horizon, the original DFM provider they were planning to use, had since 
gone out of business so it validated their due diligence. They explained the switch from 
IM to YorSipp, that was done at no expense to Miss A, wasnt given enough focus by the 
investigator.
They didnt agree with the investigators findings on fees. They said it actually saved her 
£189 per annum. They felt our investigator had only focused on the costs of a strategy 
that was never implemented rather than the specifics of her complaint.
Our investigator was not persuaded to change her view. She felt shed already addressed 
the points Abbey had raised. She also explained to Abbey that this service, when 
considering consumer complaints will assess the crux of what the customers concerns are 
and then, look at their full circumstances rather than focusing purely on the way the 
complaint has been framed with us. That means consumers dont miss out on a fair outcome 
because of the way their complaint has been explained to us.
Abbey asked the investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
I then issued a provisional decision to both parties explaining that I planned to uphold the 
complaint and invited any further comments. After receiving my provisional decision, Miss A 
contacted this service to confirm she accepted the decision and had no further comment to 
make.
Abbey responded and explained they always had Miss As best interests at heart. They said 
theyd provided Miss A great support, especially during the period of uncertainty due to 
Covid.
They also said that as Miss A had since moved to a different adviser, they requested the 
redress methodology that Id originally set out be amended to take account of the fact the 
pension wasnt under their control after that date.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I explained that when I consider a case where someone has 
switched their pension funds, I look at their circumstances at the time. Why were they 
interested in switching? Were those wants or needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser 
have recommended the switch? Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in 
Miss As best interests to make the advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a 
comparison was made between her former pensions and the recommended new 
arrangement. In summary, whats at the heart of this complaint is, whether it was right for 
Abbey to move Miss A from her existing PPs, into a new SIPP with a DFM. I dont think it 
was, and Ill explain why below.
Miss A was 52 years old and single when she initially discussed her retirement planning 
needs with Abbey. The fact-find (FF) they completed at the time, indicated she wasnt 
working due to suffering from Multiple Sclerosis (MS) and her health was recorded as fair to 
poor. It also stated she was reliant on benefit income of £1,268 per month and had 
outgoings of £600 per month. Aside from her pension savings and home, she had no other 
assets or debts. Her desired retirement age was noted as 60.  
Abbey provided Miss A with a suitability report (SR) that set out the main themes of their 
discussions along with their recommendation. Her main objectives were noted in the SR as: 
You have stated you havent been happy with the performance of your Friends Life and 
Royal London pensions and would like to consolidate these in to one.
I note that a major factor in reviewing your pension was to obtain greater flexibility and 
growth. You also wanted to ensure you family inherits your pension upon death.
You stated you would like to take your tax-free cash as soon as you are 55 and intend to 
use this to cover household costs for the immediate future.
Abbey said Miss A wanted to switch away from her existing providers because she was 
concerned about the performance of the plans. Within the FF Abbey completed, when asked 
How have they performed?, the Adviser noted the following comment unsure really but 
generally believe not great. The two SRs issued to Miss A are both silent on how those 
plans have actually performed compared to either their respective benchmark or, how the 
Adviser envisages them performing against the new proposed solution. It also appears to be 
silent around what theyre currently invested in or, the underlying benefits they provide. 
When Advisers are undertaking replacement business and poor past performance is a key 
driver in the decision-making process, Id expect to see comparisons of what theyve actually 
delivered so consumers are presented with clear objective facts and any potential 
misunderstandings are clarified. In this instance, its clear Miss A didnt know how her 
policies had performed. Had she known, whilst we cant say for certain, this may have 
impacted her decision making.
In respect of her secondary objective, that of greater flexibility; the SR isnt particularly clear 
whats meant by flexibility nor, what the new SIPP would deliver over the existing PPs other 
than greater investment choice and the ability to utilise the services of a DFM. In addition her 
PPs would allow her access to the tax free cash at age 55 too.I said in my provisional decision that I didnt believe any of the objectives provided a 
compelling enough catalyst when considering Miss As wider financial circumstances to 
switch her existing pension to a new SIPP with a DFM arrangement. Whilst Miss A, when 
educated about the differences between DFM and a passive or managed fund, may have 
been attracted to the potential benefits of having her money managed in a bespoke style, 
that doesnt necessarily mean it was the right thing for her. Just because a client is keen and 
wishes to act, doesnt necessarily mean its in their best interest to do so and in such 
circumstances, its incumbent on the adviser to help guide the consumer down the route 
thats right for them. 
The file appears to be silent on Miss As level of experience. Outside of the two PPs, the FF 
suggests she holds nothing else, so what knowledge she has of the market appears to have 
been gained from holding her former pension plans. The FF is also silent on whether Miss A 
has previously held or made any other active decisions to buy and sell equity-based 
investments of her own accord. I think if most inexperienced customers were asked if theyd 
like better returns on their investment, most would likely say yes.
Abbey have explained they used generic industry software to help determine Miss As ATR. 
Theyve determined shes a 6 on a scale of 1-10  Balanced. They define a Balanced 
investor as follows:
The Balanced Investor is somewhat concerned with short-term losses and may shift to a 
more stable option in the event of significant losses. The safeties of investment and return 
are typically of equal importance to the Balanced Investor. The following criteria may help to 
ensure that such investors have the best chance of achieving these goals: The portfolio 
should have at least an approximately 80 percent chance of achieving a non-negative return 
over a five-year holding period.
When discussing her pension objectives and capturing those within the FF, when asked by 
Abbey, How important is security of capital?, Miss A stated, yes very important. Without 
any additional context added to the file, the proposed solution is at odds with the Balanced 
ATR statement.
In my provisional decision, I went on to say that whilst I had no reason to doubt the accuracy 
of the ATR output thats noted, its incumbent on advisers to ensure that information is 
considered in light of other facts they know about the consumers wider personal 
circumstances. So, whilst its important Abbey establish the level of risk Miss A wanted to 
take, I dont believe theyve considered that robustly enough against the risk she is able to 
take in light of her wider financial circumstances. Thats why the capacity for loss (CFL) 
assessment is so important.
The overriding aim of the CFL discussion is to understand what impact, if any, a fall in the 
value of the investments would have on the customers standard of living. In the SR that 
Abbey sent to Miss A, they determined she was able to bear a loss of around 15%. Their 
CFL assessment within the SR stated:
You confirmed that you could afford to lose around 15% of your capital, which could result in 
your income could shrinking by 15% and this would not affect your lifestyle, however if your 
investment was to fall by more than this level then its likely you would need to revaluate 
your financial situation. Your capacity for loss is determined by the resources available, the 
consequences of a loss of capital or income, and the ability to replace any losses.
Based on a balance of probabilities, aside from waiting for any losses to recover, you do 
have the ability to absorb a negative financial outcome that may arise from making an 
investment. This could lead to decreased expectations of the levels of income and/or capital available to you in retirement and is common when someone is drawing an income from 
their portfolio however you do not envisage this will affect your lifestyle. 
It is important that critical trade-offs such as these be weighed up against other subjective 
factors. You confirmed that whilst the reality of losses being crystallised is an obvious 
concern, it is factor you are willing to accept in exchange for achieving your state objectives 
i.e. additional flexibility and potentially superior death benefits
The FF completed in October 2017, stated that apart from the two PPs, Miss A had no 
savings or any other assets she could rely on to fund her retirement. Despite the fact the FF 
suggested she had disposable income of around £8,000 per annum, she held no emergency 
fund or other investments. 
I should acknowledge Miss As health position at this point, she told both Abbey and this 
service she suffers from MS which means she cant work, and importantly, her health is 
deteriorating. Put simply, that means its very unlikely shell be in a position to add further 
funds to the existing pension pot. So, whilst she may have around eight years on her side to 
invest and ride out the ups and downs of the market before entering drawdown, I remain 
unconvinced Abbeys CFL assessment is a fair conclusion of her financial circumstances 
given her very limited wider wealth. Its not clear that Abbey have tied their ATR and CFL 
assessments together in their risk categorisation process, I think had they done, they 
wouldve dialled Miss As ATR downwards.
Abbey have said they believed Miss As Aviva and Royal London pensions were invested in 
funds that were too high for her existing ATR. The SR also states that because shes 
unhappy with the performance, it makes sense to move the funds to a new provider. The SR 
however, fails to explore whether the adviser investigated the merits and discounted 
undertaking a fund switch to a lower risk and better performing alternative fund.
In addition, Abbey appear to have failed to establish a clear picture of the customers state 
pension entitlement and as such, with no other savings or investments, the two schemes 
made up the vast majority of Miss As retirement fund. This is particularly relevant in this 
instance because we know Miss As current income is composed purely of benefits that will 
cease when she reaches state retirement age. Therefore, should that fund fall in value, even 
to a limited extent, given its modest value, Im very much of the view its likely to have a 
significant impact on her longer-term plans. Im therefore not persuaded that Miss A has the 
capacity to take risks at the level Abbey claim. 
In my provisional decision, I also explained that in their interactions with Miss A, Abbey dont 
appear to have established what level of income shed need at retirement. I think thats 
important because without that knowledge, they cant say with any certainty, whether she 
even needed to take the level of risk being proposed. I also think its important to 
acknowledge Miss As original plan at the time was to retire at age 60 but to fully crystalise 
her fund as soon as she was able to do so in three years time and therefore, Im not 
convinced committing all of the funds to risk based investments was the most appropriate 
course of action. It transpires she needed to crystalise sooner because of her health and its 
at that point, when Abbey presented their supplementary recommendation to invest with 
YorSIPP that I think Abbey missed an opportunity to revisit their original recommendation 
and change course.
Moving to a bespoke managed solution will always cost customers more. Put simply, thats 
because theres more work involved in running those types of arrangement. Whilst they cost 
more than a typical off the shelf managed or packaged fund, they still have a very important 
role to play in the financial advice market. More often than not, theyre well suited to 
consumers who are experienced and have large funds to invest. With a more tailored investment service, comes increased costs. Therefore, a larger fund is more readily able to 
absorb those charges limiting the overall impact of the fees on the end fund. Whilst I should 
acknowledge Abbey provided a cost disclosure to Miss A ahead of her investing, just 
because she was advised about the charges, doesnt necessarily make the decision to 
proceed the right one. I can think of no plausible reason why Miss A would benefit from 
having her monies managed on a bespoke basis when, considering the size of fund and, her 
plans to extract the maximum tax-free lump sum she could when available combined with 
the increased drag the higher charges would have on it.
Any additional charge to a consumer would provide a strong reason not to proceed with a 
course of action. So, the benefits of switching would need to outweigh the cost to Miss As 
pension, as she was unlikely to be able to recoup these charges through improved fund 
performance over the short to medium term. Whilst I have looked at the cost comparisons 
Abbey have provided that suggest the YorSIPP solution is around £190 p.a. cheaper than 
her existing arrangements, it ignores the fact that she was charged an initial fee of £7,000 
which, taking the annual saving into account, would take many years to make good and, 
given her failing poor health, its not evident its time she has.
Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Miss A was seeking a sophisticated investment 
proposition that would give her the chance to invest outside conventional funds that the SIPP 
would provide. Instead I think greater investment fund choice was of limited benefit when 
Miss A had little experience of investing in stocks and shares and was in poor health and in 
all likelihood, would be extracting her benefits in the very near term. There wasnt any 
explanation as to why she wanted a greater fund choice, or what investments she wanted to 
make that were not already available within her existing plans, which the SR fails to 
acknowledge if this was a route the adviser had explored. And I dont think the adviser could 
reasonably conclude that Miss A wanted or needed access to non-standard investments, 
which the new SIPP could provide.
Ive also reflected on whether the DFM solution may have been suitable at that point 
because the Adviser was aware of other factors about the customer that may, for example, 
have justified investing in a bespoke portfolio. The file is silent on whether Miss A was 
potentially coming into further monies in the near future such as a large inheritance that may 
have warranted a DFM over a packaged product. I therefore dont believe it was either 
suitable for her current or future needs.
Abbey have made much of the fact they only moved Miss A to an alternate SIPP as a 
consequence of their due diligence that highlighted some misgivings they had about 
remaining with Horizon following some key personnel changes. Whilst I fully accept 
unexpected changes happen that necessitate the need for alterations to be made, I think its 
at this point Abbey missed an opportunity. When they contacted her in the January to 
explain the need to make amendments to their original plan, she explained her health had 
deteriorated that resulted in her needing to access her pension monies ahead of her 55th 
birthday. At that stage, Abbey shouldve realised her short to medium-term plans had 
changed and shouldve reassessed the original recommendation. Im of the view that its at 
this point, they shouldve given serious reconsideration to the structure of what had been 
originally recommended. 
I have again, carefully considered all the information in respect of this complaint and I have 
reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. I appreciate Abbey may 
disagree but, they havent provided any new or additional information to that which has 
already been provided to this service. So, as there is no new information to consider it 
follows that I have reached the same conclusions for the same reasons as I did in my 
provisional decision, the details of which I have set out above. I have made a small alteration 
to the redress approach I set out in my provisional decision. Thats to take account of the fact Miss A moved away from Abbey to a new provider in 2020. Miss A and Abbey have both 
accepted this alteration to the end date to which the redress should be calculated to as set 
out below.
Putting things right
My aim is that Miss A should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I think Miss A would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what she 
would have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Miss A's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Abbey do?
To compensate Miss A fairly, Abbey must:
Compare the performance of Miss A's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Abbey should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Abbey should pay into Miss A's pension plan to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Abbey is unable to pay the compensation into Miss A's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Miss A 
wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Miss A's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Miss A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Miss A would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of 
the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Miss A £200 for distress and disruption to her retirement plans.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Abbey deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Miss A how much has been taken off. Abbey should give Miss A a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Miss A asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
YorSIPP Still exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
Aviva and 
Royal 
London 
transfer14 August 
20208% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant' s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Abbey should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those 
rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Abbey totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Miss A wanted Income with some growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Miss A's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Miss A into that position. It does not mean that Miss A 
would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Miss A could have obtained from investments suited to her 
objective and risk attitude.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by following this link:
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-
complaint/understandingcompensation/compensation-investment-complaints.
Alternatively, just type compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on 
our website: www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.  Abbey should provide details of its 
calculation to Miss A in a clear, simple format. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Abbey Financial Services (NI) Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman