DRN-2364617
The complaint
Ms M complains that a car she acquired, via a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited trading as Mini Financial Services, wasnt of satisfactory quality 
(BMWFS).
What happened
In May 2017, Ms M entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with BMWFS for a 
used car. The car was around one year old and had a mileage of 8,500. 
In or around May 2019, the car developed a fault with its clutch, and it couldnt be driven. Ms 
M approached the supplying dealership who said they would be happy to look at the car, but 
Ms M would have to arrange for it to be taken there at her own expense. Ms M was 
concerned about the cost of transporting the car and so arranged for it to be taken and 
repaired at a garage local to her.
The third-party garage repaired the car and informed Ms M that, in their opinion, the fault 
with the clutch was due to a manufacturing fault as the clutch pressure plate had distorted. 
The garage said this fault would not have been caused by Ms M. It provided photos of the 
part and wrote a short report setting out details of the fault that had been found. Ms M paid 
the invoice for the repair that amounted to £720.
Ms M complained to BMWFS and asked that it reimburse the cost of the repairs. BMWFS 
didnt uphold her complaint. It said that as more than six months had passed since the point 
of sale then the fault with the car wasnt presumed to have been present when shed 
acquired the car, unless it could be proven otherwise.
Ms M disagreed with BMWFSs decision and complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that her complaint should be upheld. He said, based on the evidence, he 
thought it was more likely than not there had been a fault with the car at the point of sale and 
that it would be fair for BMWFS to reimburse Ms M the cost of the repairs to the clutch.
Our investigator said that he accepted the invoice, and the report from the third-party garage 
which stated that the fault with clutch wasnt linked to anything Ms M had done. He said the 
evidence didnt support this this was wear and tear due to Ms Ms driving style. The 
investigator said durability was something thats taken into account when considering 
whether the car had been of satisfactory quality. And he didnt think a reasonable person 
would have expected a car of that age and mileage to have required this repair and he 
thought the part had worn prematurely.
As Ms M had been without the car for a period of two months, while the repairs had been 
sorted out, our investigator also said that he thought it would be fair for BMWFS to reimburse 
her two monthly instalments under the agreement.
BMWF disagreed with the view of our investigator. It said that clutches were generally 
serviceable items, as they were subject to wear and tear over time and would need 
maintenance and repair. BMWFS also said that no independent engineers report had been 
provided, showing that the fault had been present or developing at the point of sale, nor had 
Ms M any warranty in place that covered the car.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, but 
I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Ms M is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. BMWFS is also 
the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the 
quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price 
and all other relevant circumstances .
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here, the car wasnt new, being just over one year old with a mileage of 8,500. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect issues with maintenance and repair to arise over time. And 
Ive seen that the issue with the clutch arose after Ms M had the car for around two years, 
and had driven a further 27,000 miles in it.
BMWFS has said that a clutch is considered to be a servicable item, because it is a part that  
over time will need replacement. The life of clutch is generally around 60-80,000 miles, so 
Ms Ms clutch doesnt appear to have lasted as long as expected. However, I also accept 
that there can be a variety of reasons why a clutch doesnt last as long as may be expected, 
and which dont necessarily mean that  it was faulty.
Under the Consumer Rights Act there is a presumption that, if the goods do not conform with 
the contract in the first six months, then the goods didnt conform from the start of the 
contract, unless it can be shown this isnt the case. Due to the length of time Ms M has had 
the car this presumption doesnt apply and it will be for Ms M to show that issue with the 
clutch means that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. 
While an independent engineers report on the clutch would have been ideal I dont think, 
because there isnt one, the report prepared by the repairing garage cant be considered. 
This report is still evidence, and the issue is how much weight can be placed upon it when 
deciding whether the car had a fault that meant it hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale.
BMWFS has said that our investigators view wasnt treating all customers fairly, especially 
those that have a warranty to cover them for irregularities. However, I disagree as  having a warranty in place, although protecting a consumer against unexpected costs, doesnt impact 
on the rights given to a consumer under the Consumer Rights Act. So, whether or not a 
warranty is in place, if a car develops a fault that means it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale then the consumer is entitled to the remedies set out in the Act.
Here, the evidence provided by Ms M is the repairing garages report which was supplied, 
together with photos of the clutch. While the report is short it is detailed as to what was 
found. It says the clutch pressure plate has distorted and caused the diaphragm spring to 
unseat and in turn has stopped the clutch from performing its job. This can be in no way 
down to the customer as the release bearing is the only thing to come into contact with that 
part, the friction surface still has plenty of material and when engaged functions as it should.  
The report concludes we can only assume is a manufacturing fault in the spring.
BMWFS says that an assumption is not enough to etablish that this is the cause for the 
failure. However, I have to decide the evidence on the balance of probabilities, so I need to 
decide whether something is more likely than not to have happened. The repairing garage 
says the fault with the clutch is not linked to anything Ms M has done and has provided its 
opinion as to the cause of what it found when taking the clutch apart to inspect it. On the 
evidence, I think its more likely than not that the cause of the damage to the clutch plate 
was due to a fault in the spring.
I therefore accept that its more likely than not that this fault was due to a manufacturing fault 
causing the part to fail prematurely. This means that the fault would have been developing at 
the point of sale and that the car wasnt as durable as a reasonable person would 
reasonably expect.
In light of finding that the car was faulty I think the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and that 
BMWFS are liable for the cost of the repairs. 
Ms M has explained that the fault rendered the car unusable and it took two months for the 
repairs to be completed. This was because she first liaised with the supplying dealer and 
then had to wait for her local garage to be able to repair it. She was not provided with a 
courtesy car and so, for that period, would have had to arrange other forms of transport. This 
means Ms M paid for a car she couldnt use. I agree with our investigators view that it would 
be fair for Ms M to be reimbursed two monthly instalments to reflect this.
So, on the evidence Ive seen and for the reasons given, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint
 
Putting things right
Im asking BMWFS to do the following:
Reimburse Ms M the costs of the repairs to the clutch amounting to £720 together 
with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
Reimburse Ms M two monthly instalments under the agreement to reflect the period 
she was unable to use the car.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above. Im upholding Ms Ms complaint. Im asking BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited trading as Mini Financial Services to do the following:
Reimburse Ms M the costs of the repairs to the clutch amounting to £720 together with interest at the yearly rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
Reimburse Ms M two monthly instalments under the agreement to reflect the period 
she was unable to use the car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman