DRN-3830403
The complaint
Mr L says the incorrect information HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him damaged his relationship 
with a third party. The £50 compensation it has offered is not enough.
What happened
Mr L called HSBC to check if a refund had credited his account from the third party. It 
incorrectly told him it had not. He went on to have a difficult call with the third party as he 
was upset about the missing refund  and he says it subsequently closed his account. He 
called HSBC back around an hour later and was told the amount had credited his account 
and the previous information was incorrect. 
Mr L complained to HSBC and says he had to spend too long trying to get through and on 
hold; he was threatened with legal action; and told he could not be paid any compensation 
as he was overdrawn which was discriminatory. He told the bank he expected £2,500 
compensation as it was a big banking error that had caused him a lot of stress.
HSBC accepts Mr L was given incorrect information and it has apologised. It paid £50 
compensation and said it would cover Mr Ls call costs if he evidenced them.
But Mr L says this has caused him emotional distress and much inconvenience. It has 
impacted his physical and mental health. He has lost a long-term business relationship with 
the third party and has incurred legal costs trying to resolve this. He now seeks £8,500 
compensation.
Our investigator felt HSBCs response to Mr Ls complaint was reasonable. It acknowledged 
its error and compensated Mr L fairly. She said HSBC could not be held liable for the third 
partys decision to close Mr Ls account as that was based on the interactions between Mr L 
and the third party. She said Mr L could not evidence his call costs but had confirmed it was 
a pay-as-you-go account so HSBC should arrange payment based on standard call costs. 
After listening to the relevant calls she found HSBC had not threatened Mr L with legal 
action, nor had it said he couldnt be compensated as he was overdrawn.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr L asked for an ombudsmans review. He said the 
assessment showed bias as it assumed his behaviour towards the third party was the 
problem. It was HSBCs incorrect information that was the problem. And it was insulting to 
say it was ok for the bank to threaten him. He said he had received no compensation from 
HSBC yet and £50 would not in any way recognise the impact of the misinformation on his 
life. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes listening to the relevant calls between HSBC and Mr L. In keeping with our role 
as an informal dispute resolution service, and as our rules allow, I will focus here on the 
issues I find to be material to the outcome of Mr Ls complaint.
I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why but first I would like to address Mr Ls 
comment about bias. We are an independent and impartial organisation and we do not act
on behalf of banks or consumers - it is not in our interest to find in favour of one party over
the other. 
It is not in dispute that HSBC initially provided incorrect information about the credit from the 
third party. And I agree with Mr L that he should be able to trust the information his bank 
provides. HSBC corrected the information on the same date when Mr L called back around 
an hour later.  After Mr L complained it accepted, and apologised for, its error and paid £50 
into Mr Ls account on 25 February 2022. It should now calculate his call costs on the basis 
the investigator set out for the recordings it submitted as part of this investigation and credit 
his account with this amount.
I think £50 was a reasonable compensatory payment given the duration of the issue and the 
value of the missed credit. I know Mr L strongly disagrees. He feels the misinformation is the 
reason his relationship broke down with the third party and this has had a significant impact 
on his life. But HSBC had no control over how Mr L interacted with the third party, and he 
himself has told us that he told them they are many bad words and that they are ripping me 
off etc. I cannot comment on the breakdown of Mr Ls relationship with the third party as that 
is not within our jurisdiction or the scope of this complaint, but I would say it seems it was the 
reaction to the misinformation that impacted the relationship, rather than the misinformation 
itself. To be clear, I am not saying it was in any way acceptable for HSBC to provide the 
wrong information.  But I can find no grounds to award Mr L the significant increase in 
compensation he has asked for.
Whilst HSBC did tell Mr L compensation would not be paid on one of the calls, it did not say 
this was because he was overdrawn, rather that this was because the complaint would first 
need to be escalated. And I do not agree that the bank threatened Mr L with legal action, 
rather it was trying to explain the steps in the complaints process including that he had the 
legal right to bring his complaint to this service.
Mr L said he had to wait hours to get through to HSBC and was then on hold a lot. The bank 
said its call wait times were not excessive when he called. Mr L has not provided his call log 
to support his recollections so I cannot know the exact waiting times. From the call listening I 
do agree however that at times Mr L was placed on hold for significant periods of time, 
HSBC explained this was due to high call volumes. I think the amount of time Mr L had to 
invest in resolving the issue was also extended as Mr L wanted to speak to managers  as 
he is of course entitled to  rather than to follow the banks process for escalating complaints 
which would have shortened his time on calls. 
I note that Mr L also complained to HSBC about texts he received about his overdraft. He did 
not raise this when he brought in his complaint to this service but for completeness I would 
remind Mr L that HSBC explained in its final response letter that he can opt out of these 
alerts if he does not wish to receive them.
Finally, it is not clear to me if Mr L still wants copies of any calls as he initially asked the 
bank, but he should contact HSBC and complete a Data Subject Access Request if he does. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint. But I would remind HSBC UK Plc to cover Mr Ls call 
costs as agreed. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman