DRN-3555328
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank (Tesco) hasnt 
refunded the money shes lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
Mrs B says that she saw an advert for diet tablets on a popular social media platform and 
purchased five bottles for £37.97 using her Tesco credit card. She immediately received a 
receipt showing that she had been charged £199.95 for the five bottles of diet tablets, and 
three bottles of tablets which she hadnt agreed to purchase had been added to her order at 
an additional cost of £64.97. 
She couldnt access the advert shed seen again as the page disappeared after her 
purchase went through, so she couldnt take a screenshot of the price that had been 
advertised. And her attempts to email the seller were unsuccessful. The tablets arrived but 
there was no paperwork with them, and there was no way to return them. She has since 
discovered that lots of other people have been scammed in a similar way.
Mrs B asked Tesco to raise a chargeback in August 2020. She says that she sent Tesco all 
the evidence she has, which isnt a lot. It took Tesco a long time to respond in full and she 
had to keep chasing it. 
Eventually, Tesco said that Mrs B hasnt provided any evidence to show that the price she 
was charged was different to the price advertised, so it cant demonstrate that the merchant 
misrepresented the price and its unable to help her because a chargeback would fail. But it 
paid Mrs B £100 for its delays in handling the matter.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded that Tesco couldve done anything more to help Mrs B, so 
she didnt uphold her complaint. Mrs B was unhappy with this outcome, and her complaint 
has now been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
It's common ground that Mrs B authorised and consented to the disputed card payments 
under the Payment Services Regulations. Shes said that she was charged a different price 
to the one she expected to pay, but that doesnt invalidate consent  which doesnt depend 
on what an account holder knew at the time they completed the procedure for giving 
consent. Mrs B made a genuine payment/s to the merchant using the credit card thats 
linked to her Tesco account. She was not defrauded in the sense that someone else made 
the payments without her knowledge or consent and/or she wasnt tricked into making 
payments to an unintended destination by a scammer. So, the starting point is that Tesco 
had an obligation to follow Mrs Bs payment instruction, and Mrs B is presumed liable for her 
loss in the first instance. But thats not the end of the story. There are circumstances in 
which a bank should make additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases, decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm. I consider that Tesco should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
The disputed card payments were for relatively modest amounts and, looking at Mrs Bs 
account statements, they werent out of character in comparison to the normal account 
activity. Im not persuaded that they were so unusual or suspicious that they ought to have 
alerted Tesco that Mrs B may be at risk of financial harm. So, I dont think that Tesco acted 
unreasonably in processing the payments without making further enquiries.
I understand that Tesco hasnt instigated a chargeback to try to recover Mrs Bs money, but 
banks dont have to raise chargebacks if it looks clear that the cardholder would lose. Here, 
Im satisfied thats the case because theres nothing to show that the purchase price was 
misrepresented, or that Mrs B was charged a different price to the one she was expecting to 
pay. So Im not persuaded that Tesco has done anything wrong in this respect, or that it 
shouldve put Mrs B back into the position that she would have been in had she not made 
the disputed card payments by any other means.
Im sorry that Mrs B has been scammed and I appreciate that she is not in a position to 
provide Tesco with any further evidence to recover her loss. But Im not satisfied that Tesco 
has done anything wrong here in terms of intervening with the disputed card payments or 
recovering Mrs Bs money. It didnt handle this matter as quickly as it couldve or in the way 
that I would expect, and it has paid Mrs B £100 by way of an apology for this. I think that is 
fair and reasonable and, overall, I consider that Tesco has already done enough to resolve 
this complaint. So, I wont be recommending that it takes any further action to put things 
right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022. 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman