DRN-3631602
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have been unable to 
produce two historic statements. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons.
Mr and Mrs P are looking for evidence of two payments made in statement form. 
Barclays have evidenced through internal screenshots that its unable to produce 
statements over 13 years old. The statements Mr and Mrs P are looking for are from 
1997 and 2002  outside of this period. 
Barclays being unable to produce statements going back that far is what wed expect 
and what we see from other businesses. Generally, information is kept on file for six 
years unless there is a reason, decided by the business, that it needs to keep it for 
longer. 
Although Mrs P has said the business gave her details of the two payments, Im 
satisfied Barclays are unable to produce these in statement form. 
I understand Mr and Mrs P were given conflicting information regarding the 
production of the statements. Barclays have apologised and offered £25 as 
compensation. I find this fair in the circumstances and for the trouble and upset it 
caused Mr and Mrs P when they werent received. 
In summary, Im satisfied Barclays havent acted unfairly or against its terms and 
conditions when its said it cant produce the statement Mr and Mrs P are looking for. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr and Mrs Ps frustration, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman