DRN-3190478
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Scottish Widows Limited failed to carry out appropriate due diligence 
before transferring her personal pension to an occupational pension scheme in May 2018.
What happened
Scottish Widows upheld Mrs Ks complaint. It accepted there were warning signs it should 
have recognised that indicated her transfer request might put her at risk of being scammed.  
It accepted that if it had warned her, she would not have transferred her pension. It offered to 
reinstate Mrs Ks plan, at the value it would be now if she had never transferred it. It also 
sent her £250 to recognise the distress and inconvenience it had caused her.
Mrs Ks representative asked SW for a breakdown of how the reinstatement value had been 
calculated. SW provided the price of each unit (held in the pension plan) on both the date of 
transfer and the date Mrs Ks policy was reinstated (25 February 2020). Mrs Ks 
representative says this isnt adequate, as the reply did not explain the unit holdings or unit 
prices, or any other events to the funds during the intervening period - with no corroborative 
evidence provided of the unit holdings and unit prices.
The representative also said that Mrs K had asked for its fee (25% of the compensation plus 
VAT) to be settled directly by Scottish Widows, because it had been pivotal in getting her 
complaint upheld. Scottish Widows declined to do this as the representatives fee was a 
separate agreement between Mrs K and the representative. Scottish Widows said the 
outcome of the complaint would have been the same had Mrs K not used a representative.
Our investigator didnt consider Scottish Widows needed to do anything more, noting that it 
had already put Mrs K back into the position she would have been in, but for its admitted 
error in transferring out her policy. He said that the question of the CMCs fees was a matter 
between Mrs K and her CMC. He agreed with Scottish Widows that there is no reason to 
consider the outcome of the complaint would have been different without the CMCs 
involvement.
In response, the CMC said:
- Mrs Ks financial position had changed as a result of Scottish Widows error. She 
incurred specialist costs with the intention these would be met from a compensation 
award, and she now doesnt have sufficient means to meet these costs.
- Reinstatement of her pension was therefore contrary to the FCAs Principles for 
Businesses as Scottish Widows was not treating her fairly.
- There is a significant risk that reinstatement could lead to distress if Mrs K is not able 
to meet the financial commitments she entered into. She is 56 years old, earning less 
than £10,000pa with credit card debts.
- The one size fits all approach Scottish Widows has adopted was inappropriate as 
some clients might be categorised as vulnerable. 
- Mrs K was yet to receive any correspondence from Scottish Widows to say what her 
policy is now worth.
- Mrs K does not wish to continue with Scottish Widows as her provider and 
compensation in monetary form gives her flexibility to make other arrangements.
- Has Scottish Widows checked whether reinstatement has tax consequences such as 
affecting Mrs Ks annual allowance?
As both parties agree that Mrs K would not have transferred her pension away from Scottish 
Widows but for its failure to warn her of the risks, the outstanding issue for me to decide is 
whether Scottish Widows offer to reinstate Mrs Ks pension is fair (and, if not, what would be 
fair).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scottish Widows has offered to reinstate Mrs Ks pension policy. Reinstating the policy is the 
closest way to put her in the position she would have been in, but for Scottish Widows 
errors. For this reason, I think the offer is fair. 
Scottish Widows says there will be no annual allowance complications with the reinstated 
funds. It has not paid redress into a new plan for Mrs K, which is the other type of payment 
we commonly see that would count towards Mrs Ks annual allowance. It has not claimed 
relief against Mrs Ks income tax position on the payment either, for that reason. But, in line 
with how the original policy would have operated, shell be entitled to a new tax-free cash 
sum and the rest of the policy may be subject to income tax as and when it is withdrawn. So, 
Im not aware of any tax complications for which Scottish Widows would reasonably be 
responsible and the CMC has provided no evidence of these. 
The receiving occupational schemes portfolio included unregulated investments such as 
property in the UK and France. Its unclear what value, if any, would be realised from those 
investments, although I can also see from earlier annual statements that the portfolio also 
held shares, bonds and money market investments at some points in time. Mrs K could face 
complications if she does, at some later date, realise a value from that scheme and doesnt 
make arrangements to return it to Scottish Widows. But Ive noted that Scottish Widows is 
attempting to recover the funds from the occupational scheme. Its clearly willing to accept 
any funds that can be recovered. 
This would be consistent with the principle of restoring Mrs K to the position she should have 
been in and could minimise any further complications for her. Its a matter for Mrs K to 
discuss with Scottish Widows at the relevant time, as Im not in a position to make a decision 
here about issues that havent yet occurred and may not occur. 
Ive considered the points about financial vulnerability, but they dont change that Scottish 
Widows has reinstated a policy Mrs K would always have been unable to access until age 
55, and she has agreed to terms and conditions with her CMC that may entitle it to recover 
its fee from her directly. And if she doesnt wish to stay with Scottish Widows she can also 
transfer elsewhere. Payment in cash is not a reason to circumvent the normal steps Mrs K 
would always have needed to take if she decides to transfer her pension, or needs to access 
it later on in order to meet her CMCs fees. 
Receiving all of the compensation in cash at once could actually have a more adverse 
impact on any state benefits Mrs K may be entitled to. Where Scottish Widows is able to 
reinstate Mrs Ks policy, I dont think its reasonable for it to put her into potentially less well 
understood financial position instead.Mrs Ks financial position changed as a result of Scottish Widows error. I acknowledge that 
her position wont be entirely restored if she has to meet the costs of her CMC for 
representing her. But I dont think it would be fair to hold Scottish Widows responsible for 
those costs.
The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt routinely make awards for the costs of using a 
representative, apart from in exceptional cases. For the same reason CMCs are required to 
inform consumers that they have an alternative route of pursuing their complaint, and taking 
it if necessary to our service, free of charge. I see nothing in the circumstances of Mrs Ks 
case to suggest it is exceptional.
I understand that Mrs Ks representative has misgivings that the complaint wouldnt have 
been upheld by Scottish Widows straight away, if it hadnt been raised by a CMC. Its 
provided no evidence to demonstrate this but, in any event, Scottish Widows is required to 
provide referral rights to our service where the complaint would then be considered again on 
an impartial basis.
If Mrs K is now unhappy about her CMCs costs, or unable to pay them, that is a matter 
between her and her CMC; not Scottish Widows. 
The FCA appears to have already taken this issue into account in drafting the section of its 
handbook regulating CMCs from 1 April 2019. CMCOB 4.2.9R says that, in the case of 
pension-related claims, the CMC should warn the customer that its fee may become payable 
before they have access to their pension, and the customer will, where necessary, need to 
pay the CMCs fees from their own funds. Its clear Mrs Ks CMC is aware of this and I can 
see it has disclosed it, as expected by the FCA, in its terms and conditions with Mrs K.
Im satisfied Scottish Widows has demonstrated that it reinstated Mrs Ks policy at the 
appropriate value. What happened to the unit price between 2018 and 2020 has no bearing 
on whether Scottish Widows applied the correct price on the day it reinstated the policy. 
Scottish Widows administers its Consensus fund, so I have no reason to doubt its ability to 
report the price of that fund accurately. Graphs of unit prices are freely available from 
industry sources such as Morningstar or Trustnet. The CMC is free to review these. Having 
done so myself, I see no reason to be concerned about Scottish Widows calculations.
There is a loyalty bonus on Mrs Ks policy which means the number of units increases over 
time. The CMC should be able to see from the file it submitted that the number of units 
Mrs K held increased between her 1 March 2017 valuation and when the policy was 
transferred out. The previous valuations explain how the loyalty bonus works. As the number 
of units has grown further by the point Scottish Widows reinstated her policy, this shows its 
continuing to take the loyalty bonus into account. No evidence has been provided to suggest 
that it isnt doing so appropriately.
Im also satisfied from the confirmation Scottish Widows issued that has reinstated the 
policy, but there may be an issue if Mrs K was due to receive an annual statement by now 
and has not received one. Mrs K is free to call Scottish Widows at any time to ask what the 
current value of her policy is and make sure she is set up correctly to receive statements at 
the right address.
Scottish Widows sent Mrs K a cheque for £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
a transfer it agreed she would not otherwise have made. As this is broadly comparable to 
other similar awards we have made following failures by a business to carry out due 
diligence checks, Im not going to make any further award to Mrs K.My final decision
If Mrs K has not banked Scottish Widows cheque for £250, it should ensure that it is 
reissued. But Im not otherwise upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman