DRN-3551553
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as Z, has said Balens Limited (Balens) mis-sold it a 
commercial property insurance policy across a number of years.
Ms P, who is a director of Z, brings the complaint on its behalf. For ease, any reference to Z 
or Balens includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ive summarised events. 
Z held a Salon Standard insurance policy. This provided various covers, including 
business protection with Company A, and legal expenses insurance (LEI) with 
Company B. These were taken out through Balens as a broker.
Z has made several claims under both of these policies. These claims have been 
considered by this Service under separate references. So, I wont discuss these 
topics in detail within this decision. A business interruption claim was turned down as 
the insurer said the circumstances of the claim were not caused by an insured peril  
there had been no physical damage to the property. And a claim under the LEI cover 
was declined as the insurer said commercial contract disputes were excluded.
Z has since said the policy was mis-sold by Balens across the time it was running as 
her claims had been denied.
Our Investigator looked into what happened and explained this Service could only 
consider the sales from 2015  2020 in line with our jurisdiction. A separate 
complaint concerning Balens refusal to sell a policy between 2020  2021 has also 
been considered separately by this Service.
The Investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying Balens had sold products that 
appeared suitable for Z between 2015  2018 when it had sold the insurance on an 
advised basis. And it had given clear, fair and not misleading information between 
2019 and 2020 when it sold them on a non-advised basis.
The Investigator was satisfied sufficient information had been provided to Z for it to 
make an informed choice about the policies. And when circumstances had changed, 
a reduction in cover was put in place. Overall, the Investigator highlighted that 
declined claims would not necessarily mean a policy was not suitable.
Z disagreed, discussing its claims, and saying all sales were on an advised basis and 
therefore Balens had mis-sold the policy on this basis. Z also made comments about 
the level of cover provided, and the reduction in cover from 2019. Z also provided a 
copy of a call recording with a Balens representative.
The Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Z complains that Balens has mis-sold it this policy. Z has also said it was looking 
for Balens to continue insuring it from 2020 onwards. So, its unclear to me exactly 
what aspect of the policy it believes made it unsuitable or mis-sold. 
From what Ive seen, Zs belief the policy was mis-sold appears to largely stem 
from the various claims that Z has made that were declined. Z has provided 
limited reasoning as to why the policies were mis-sold beyond this including 
saying the policies were sold on a non-advised basis without its knowledge. 
A claim being declined in itself is not necessarily an indicator that a policy was 
mis-sold. And in the circumstances of the related claims, Im satisfied the 
exclusions relied upon were not out of the ordinary for policies of this nature, nor 
something that made the policy unsuitable for Z by itself. 
Balens has said it sold the policies on an advised basis from 2015  2018. And a 
non-advised basis after this. Z has challenged this saying all of the sales were on 
an advised basis. I dont think I need to make a finding on this point here as Im 
satisfied it wouldnt change anything if all the sales were all advised. So, Ive 
considered each of the sales from 2015 onwards on this basis.
When an insurer sells a policy on an advised basis, it needs to ensure the policy 
is suitable for its customer. And if the policy contains any unusual, onerous or 
restrictive terms, these would need to be clearly highlighted. The relevant rules 
also require the insurer to communicate in a clear, fair, and not misleading way 
when giving information to the customer.
From the documentation Ive been given, it appears Balens provided quotes and 
policy wording at each of the relevant renewals which highlighted the level of 
cover being provided and asked Z to check the documentation to ensure the 
policy still met its needs. And it seems Z did make amendments to the policy to 
reflect changes in the business in 2019. So, it appears to me Zs needs were met.
Having taken everything into account, including all of Zs submissions, Ive seen 
nothing that persuades me that Z wasnt aware of the level of cover it had taken 
out at each renewal, nor any reason why this policy was not suitable for Zs 
needs. Therefore, Im satisfied Balens did not mis-sell this policy.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman