DRN-3030799
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold that PPI policy. 
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover arent materially disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information 
here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Lloydss offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr W paid was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that its offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for 
the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my reasons for each of 
these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
Mr W told us he thought PPI had been sold to him in a face to face meeting. But in 
considering the paperwork thats available from the time, I think its most likely Mr W made a 
postal application for his credit card and PPI at the same time. That means I think hed have 
been able to complete the application form in his own time and at his own pace. 
The first thing Ive considered in this case is whether Lloyds made it clear 
Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI. I can see there were two equally prominent boxes for 
Mr W to complete on the application form  one to mark if he wanted PPI and another to 
mark if he did not want a policy. Im satisfied Mr W indicated he wanted cover. If he didnt 
want the policy to be added to his account, I think it would have been clear he just needed to 
select the no box. 
Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W. That means it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable. But it did have to provide enough clear and timely information about the 
cover so he could decide if it was a good fit for his needs. 
I accept its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. 
I can see that if hed had to make a claim on the policy, 10% of Mr Ws credit card balance 
would have been repaid for every month he was off sick from work or if he was made 
redundant. Each claim could have lasted for up to 12 months. I understand Mr W was 
entitled to less than three months sick pay from his employer. So it follows that the PPI 
would have lasted for longer than his contractual sick pay. Looking at how long hed been in 
his job, I think the PPI would have also lasted for longer than his redundancy entitlement. Mr 
W told us he had no other means with which to meet his credit card repayments if he wasnt 
working. So I can see how PPI could have been helpful to him in such circumstances. I 
understand Mr W did in fact make a successful PPI claim in or around 2010. 
I understand Mr W had been diagnosed with a chest complaint in 1966  which was more 
than 35 years before the cover was sold. I understand this medical condition didnt cause 
him to take any time off work. It is not clear to me whether Mr W still had this condition in 
2003, but even if he did, it looks as though it was well-controlled. I dont think hed have 
reasonably thought hed need to make a claim because of it. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. 
I havent seen anything unusual about Mr Ws employment circumstances that would have 
stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. From the 
information Ive seen, it also looks like the PPI was affordable. I can see how the policy could 
have been helpful to Mr W at what would have no doubt been a difficult time for him if he 
was out of work.  With all of this in mind, I cant reasonably say Mr W would have declined 
the cover had Lloyds given him more or better information about it. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mr W would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit 
in a difficult time. And in those circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr Ws representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr W about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment 
in Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship 
between Lloyds and Mr W was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act because Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr W because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMr Ws representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mr W should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr W about the high commission and profit-share rates paid; 
the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr W wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether 
the consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy 
the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow 
that a court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or 
conclude that a consumer would not have purchased the policy had the 
commission been disclosed; and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to 
merge the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and 
guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI 
complaints) and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy 
caused by it should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, at this stage, my role as 
an ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr W in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level 
of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in 
my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness.
I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above. Im satisfied it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line 
with the FCAs guidance and return some of the money Mr W paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr W 
with the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if Lloyds had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.So I consider that Lloydss offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Ws complaint or make any award for 
this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mr W an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in 
excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it hasnt 
already done so.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman