DRN-3021860
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say they didnt have a fair opportunity to take out a new interest rate product 
for their interest only mortgage with Santander UK Plc. They ask that Santander refunds 
some of the interest they paid while on its standard variable rate (SVR).
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ms interest rate product ended in 2009. Mr M says they didnt contact 
Santander about a new product at that time as they thought it would require a credit check. 
He says Santander ought to have given them better information about the availability of 
products. Mr M says when he did try to take out a new product online Santanders platform 
didnt work. 
Our investigator said Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs M when their product ended in 2009. It 
didnt have to write to them offering new products after this. Our investigator said there was 
no record of Mr and Mrs M contacting Santander about a new product until late 2019. He 
said if Mr and Mrs M were unable to take out a new product online they could have called 
Santander, or raised a complaint by letter or email, or through this service. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. Mr M says theres no record of an earlier application for a new 
product as Santanders platform didnt work. He said Santander was aware of the problem 
and should have fixed it. Mr M says he didnt call Santander due to telephobia.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms interest rate product ended in 2009. In accordance with the mortgage terms 
and conditions Santander applied its SVR. Mr and Mrs M say they didnt take out a new 
product due to errors by Santander, and so it should refund some of the interest it applied. 
In considering this complaint, Ive taken the following into account.
Santander wrote to Mr and Mrs M when their product ended in 2009. Santander wasnt 
required to send regular reminders to Mr and Mrs M about new products. However it sent 
annual statements which set out the interest rate. The guides sent with the annual 
statements said customers on the SVR could call to discuss options for new products 
and that this was a straightforward process. For instance, the guide for 2011 said the 
process of switching to a new product with us is quick and easyit could save you time 
and money. Later statements also said customers could switch products on-line.
Mr M says they didnt contact Santander about a product switch because they thought 
this would require a credit check (which they thought theyd fail). Santander didnt 
mislead Mr and Mrs M about this, it seems this was an assumption theyd made. If Mr 
and Mrs M had wanted to know what was involved in a product switch they could have 
asked Santander, or taken independent advice.
Santander doesnt have any record of Mr M contacting it about a product switch until 
September 2019. When Mr M called Santander in September 2019 he was told he could 
ask for a product switch online or by phone. Mr M called Santander in February 2020 to 
set up online access. 
In March 2020 Mr M called Santander and asked for payment deferrals for April, May 
and June 2020 as Mrs Ms income was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.
Mr M called Santander in June 2020 to say hed been unable to look at products online. 
Santander says if Mr M was told during this call the problem was due to his account 
number having an extra digit this was incorrect: he was given a standard account 
number. Santander offered to re-set Mr Ms online credentials, but he asked to be 
transferred to the rates team.
Mr M selected products and Santander sent product offers in June, September, October 
and November 2020. Mr and Mrs M took out a new interest rate product in late 2020. 
Santander says its possible its system didnt allow Mr M to select a new product in early to 
mid-2020 because Mr and Mrs M have an interest only mortgage without a repayment 
vehicle. If so, it says hed have seen a message asking him to contact it by phone. 
Mr M says he was unable to access new products on-line due to problems with Santanders 
system and its errors. He says this is also the reason theres no record of him trying to 
access products on line. Santander says this wasnt the case. But even if it was, I dont think 
its fair to say this prevented them taking out a new product. 
Mr M or Mrs M could have asked for a new product by phone. Mr M could have asked to 
take out a new product during one of the calls he made to Santander. While Mr M says he 
has difficulty using the phone, he didnt tell Santander this. Mr M hasnt said theres any 
reason why Mrs M couldnt have called about a new product. When Mr M told Santander he 
was having difficulty looking at products online it offered to re-set his credentials. I dont think 
Santander had any reason to think Mr M had difficulty calling it, so I cant fairly find that it 
should have offered other ways for Mr M to communicate with it.
Mr and Mrs M would have paid less interest if theyd taken out a new product sooner. I can 
understand their frustration about that. But I dont think I can fairly find that the reason they 
didnt was due to an error by Santander. It follows that I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
require Santander to refund interest. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman