DRN-3389292
The complaint
Mr D complains that Nutmeg Saving and Investment Limiteds (Nutmegs) decision to stop 
servicing his pension and investment accounts because he is a citizen of the United States 
of America and a United States Tax Resident (USTR), is unfair and has caused him financial 
loss.
 
What happened
Mr D is a US citizen residing in the UK whilst remaining an USTR. Mr D held a pension, ISA 
and Lifetime ISA with Nutmeg.
In July 2021 Nutmeg informed Mr D that due to legal and regulatory complexities they had 
decided to stop providing accounts to customers with US tax residency. This notification 
confirmed that accounts could be transferred to a new provider or closed, with the funds then 
paid into a UK bank account.
Unhappy with this decision Mr D complained to Nutmeg. Their response stated that this was 
not a decision that they had made lightly however their Terms and Conditions did allow for 
such changes to be made. Mr D was given until mid-September 2021 to move or close his 
accounts. 
Still unhappy, Mr D referred his complaint to this service. Whilst the complaint was being 
investigated Mr D transferred his pension to another provider. 
Our investigator looked into things and did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
The investigator said that whilst they could understand Mr Ds frustration, Nutmegs Terms 
and Conditions did allow them to take such action. In addition, the investigator felt that 
Nutmeg had afforded Mr D sufficient time to make alternative arrangements for his accounts 
and as such had acted reasonably. 
Finally, the investigator noted that the decision to cease providing accounts to customers 
with US tax residency was a commercial decision on Nutmegs part, and it was not the 
Financial Ombudsman Services role to interfere in a businesss commercial decisions.
In correspondence to this service following the investigators findings, Mr D said that the 
Lifetime ISA could not be transferred to another provider. Given the addition of government 
bonuses etc, the transfer of these products from one provider to another was not possible.
Whilst Nutmeg have offered to cover the 25% penalty that would be applied to any 
withdrawal made from the Lifetime ISA before Mr D reaches age 60, Mr D does not consider 
this sufficient given he will lose out on the potential for future contributions to be made which 
would then attract further government bonuses.
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would note that Mr D has provided significant detail on the HMRC Guidance Notes for the 
Implementation of International Tax Compliance (United States of America) Regulations 
(2013). Whilst I have considered all the evidence and documentation on file it is important to 
state that it is not for me to check whether Nutmegs understanding of the UK / US tax 
compliance rules is correct. Nutmeg have made their decision to stop providing accounts to 
US citizens based on their understanding of the rules, and as per the investigators findings 
that is a commercial decision that Nutmeg are entitled to make. 
I have fully considered Mr Ds point that he feels US citizens are being discriminated against 
however I believe the evidence shows that Nutmeg have made their decision based on the 
additional complex tax reporting that is required of them and whilst this will mainly affect US 
citizens, I do not believe Nutmeg have acted unfairly or in a discriminatory way.
What I have considered is whether Nutmegs actions following this decision have been 
reasonable and in line with what I would expect.
As per the investigators findings, Nutmegs Terms and Conditions allow them to make 
changes to their service offering provided appropriate notice is given to affected customers. 
The terms and conditions document clearly states We may terminate the agreement by 
giving you 30 days notice by email, subject to the settlement of all outstanding transactions
Having considered the timeline of events above I have concluded that Nutmeg acted 
reasonably and gave Mr D adequate notice of their decision. I would also note that Nutmeg 
extended the deadline for Mr Ds accounts to be transferred or encashed as this complaint 
process has progressed.
I am pleased that Mr Ds pension has been transferred to another provider maintaining the 
tax efficient status of these funds. There has been no confirmation of the status of Mr Ds 
ISA account however I can see no reason why this too could not / cannot be transferred to 
another provider, thus maintaining the tax efficiency of these funds as well. 
I appreciate that Mr Ds Lifetime ISA is more problematic given the more complex nature of 
the product and the difficulty faced in transferring this to another provider. 
A Lifetime ISA must be opened between the ages of 18 and 40, with the funds intended to 
be used either towards a first home or to save for later life. The contribution limit is £4,000 
per year with this being part of the individuals annual ISA contribution limit. Contributions 
can be made until age 50, with the government adding a 25% bonus to the savings up to a 
limit of £1,000 per year. Withdrawals incur a penalty charge of 25% unless the funds are 
used to purchase a first home, come after the policy holder has reached age 60 or if the 
policy holder is diagnosed as terminally ill. 
Given Mr D is over the age of 40, he cannot start a new Lifetime ISA and, whilst these 
products can be transferred between providers, the complexity of the product means that in 
practice this can be difficult. Nutmeg have explained that they have provided Mr D with some 
examples of where other impacted customers have managed to transfer their Lifetime ISA 
however have been clear that as they do not offer an unrestricted advisory service they 
cannot go as far as recommending a new provided to Mr D. In addition, Nutmeg have 
explained that their offer to cover the 25% penalty that Mr D will incur in encashing the Lifetime ISA is a gesture of goodwill and have confirmed that this is in no way an admission 
that they should have acted differently.
This offer covers the known penalty that Mr D will incur in accessing the funds within his 
Lifetime ISA, with the totality of the funds then available for Mr D to invest elsewhere.
Overall, whilst I appreciate that Nutmegs decision has had an impact on Mr D, Nutmeg were 
entitled to make that decision and provided appropriate notice to Mr D as per their terms and 
conditions. 
As I do not believe Nutmeg have acted inappropriately, I do not believe they need to take 
any further action, as such the offer made as a goodwill gesture is considered fair.  
As such I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
As per the rationale above, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman