DRN-1925664
 
The complaint
Ms G complains that MYJAR Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms G took out a total of three loans with MYJAR between March 2017 and April 2018. 
Loan 
no.Date borrowed Date repaid Amount
1 06.03.17 29.04.17 £300
2 29.04.17 20.04.18 £700
3 21.04.18 - £1,000
The first loan was repayable by three monthly instalments, and loans 2 and 3 were 
repayable by 12 monthly instalments. Ms G repaid the first two loans in full, but a significant 
balance remained outstanding on loan 3 when she brought her complaint.
Ms G believes that adequate checks would have shown MYJAR that she couldnt afford the 
loans.
In its response to Ms Gs complaint, MYJAR accepted that by the time Ms G applied for 
loan 3, there were signs that the lending may not have been appropriate for her. As Ms G 
had only paid £150.80 in total towards that loan, it didnt offer to pay her any monetary 
compensation. But it offered to remove loan 3 from Ms Gs credit file entirely.
Our adjudicator thought MYJARs offer was fair. She didnt think MYJAR should have 
realised the loans would be unsustainable for Ms G. 
Ms G didnt agree with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me for final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms G could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Its important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish whether Ms G 
could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Gs complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the adjudicator, and for broadly similar reasons.
MYJAR did some checks before it gave each of the loans to Ms G. Among other things, it 
asked her for details of her income and her normal expenditure. And it checked her credit file 
before agreeing the loans. Ive seen a summary of the results of the checks MYJAR carried 
out, and I dont think they showed anything that should have caused additional concerns to 
it.
I think the checks that MYJAR carried out before making the first two loans were 
proportionate. I acknowledge that that Ms G applied for loan 2 on the day she finished 
repaying loan 1. But I think that at that stage, it was too early in Ms Gs borrowing 
relationship with MYJAR to say that a pattern of dependence on short-term loans was 
emerging. 
Based on the information Ms G had provided about her monthly income and expenditure, Im 
satisfied that it would have looked as if shed be able to afford the repayments on loans 1 
and 2 without difficulty. And given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about Ms Gs 
circumstances at the time and her borrowing history with MYJAR, I dont think that it would 
have been proportionate for MYJAR to ask her for the amount of information that would have 
been needed to show the lending was unsustainable before making the first two loans. So 
I dont think MYJAR was wrong to make loans 1 and 2.MYJAR has confirmed that the offer it made in its final response to Ms Gs complaint is still 
open. Even if I were to conclude that MYJAR shouldnt have made loan 3 to Ms G, I couldnt 
fairly require it to do more than its offered to do.
My final decision
MYJAR Limited has offered to settle Ms Gs complaint by removing all information about 
loan 3 from her credit file. I think that offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is 
that MYJAR should remove all information about loan 3 from Ms Gs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020. 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman