DRN-3896602
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC added a marker to CIFAS, the national fraud 
database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Lloyds Bank said it had received a report that 33 payments which came to £2,446 made into 
Mr Hs account had been obtained fraudulently. These had been paid to him over the period 
April 2021 to February 2022. Lloyds said Mr H had given it two different versions of events. It 
said that it had asked Mr H about the last payment of £650 in March 2022 and hed said that 
he wasnt expecting it and didnt know what the payment was for. Hed spent the money as 
he had an overdraft and assumed it was his and hadnt seen any details. He didnt give an 
explanation for the other payments but said the person sending them was a family friend he 
didnt know too well. When he later complained, Mr H had told Lloyds that this was money 
from the family friend including for shopping and helping with other things. Hed told Lloyds 
that he wasnt sure what all the payments were for but did know the majority. And hed 
withdrawn the money when it was received although Lloyds said that this hadnt always 
happened. So, it said it wouldnt be removing the marker.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She discussed what 
happened with Mr H who said he was shocked at this report of fraud. Hed helped the family 
friend and said for example that payments in October 2021 were made to him while he was 
with her. Mr H couldnt explain why some of them had been transferred to a person he said 
was his mother and said this hadnt happened even though this was shown on his 
statements. 
He was asked specifically about a payment of £600 in February 2022. He initially said he 
didnt know what it was and then instead that it was for the persons business, and hed been 
asked to pay it. He couldnt give the name of the business or explain why hed transferred 
half of the money to another account in his name. Mr H was also asked about the payment 
of £650 and said that he was to send this on through a money transfer service. But hed 
transferred the money to his mothers account because hed reached a payment limit. Our 
adjudicator said that there werent any significant payments showing to that money transfer 
service. And she told him hed said different things during the call and that things didnt add 
up. Mr H told her he was unable to speak to the person that sent the money as matters were 
being dealt with by the authorities and hed been told not to.
Our adjudicator said that it was more than likely that Mr H was complicit in receiving 
fraudulent payments. And that it wasnt unfair for the marker to be registered and for Lloyds 
to close his account.
Mr H said he wanted his case to be reviewed. He sent in marked up copies of his bank 
statements during the period. He pointed out that hed sent money back to the person 
reporting fraud. And for example, on 28 September 2021 sent back a payment of £20 hed 
received the day before. He hadnt received money in December 2021 but marked payments 
hed made to the family friend of £150. And he said that of the 33 payments more than 10 
went back. The value of the loss reported was incorrect and he wanted this evidence to be 
reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Lloyds needs 
to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Mr H has no explanation of why the person he says hes been helping would have reported 
these payments as fraudulent. And that person doesnt seem to have retracted the claim 
and based on what Mr H says things are being looked into by the relevant authorities.
Ive seen a list of the 33 payments reported as fraudulent which total £2,446. Ive also 
looked at the statement copies Mr H has provided. And hes highlighted 12 payments back 
which by my calculation are just over £800. He hasnt explained why he would make these 
payments. While as he says the payment, he sent in September 2021 does seem to match 
one hes received the day before the later ones dont always. And in any event even if I 
was to accept that these were a return of some of the money for some reason Mr H would 
need to be able to explain why hes received all the money in the first place. 
Ive looked carefully at what hes said to Lloyds and our adjudicator about that. Its not 
impossible he was helping someone. But hes not been consistent, and he seems to have 
developed what hes said about things over time. And importantly he doesnt have a 
credible explanation for the largest payments involved here of £600 and £650 in February 
2022. I note that in respect of the latter payment Lloyds records show he was logged into 
internet banking three minutes after the payment was received and had moved the funds. 
That seems to contradict him telling Lloyds that he hadnt seen the payment. 
Having balanced all the information I dont consider what he says to be reliable, and I find it 
most likely he was complicit in the fraudulent receipt of this money.
I appreciate that the figures from the report CIFAS has given him say that the loss here was 
also £2,446. But the primary thing Im looking at here is whether there were grounds for the 
marker, and I wont be in a position to or need to reconcile any loss figure to decide on this 
complaint.Lloyds says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr H received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So, Ive looked at whether Lloyds was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Lloyds needs to have enough information to make a formal report to 
the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Hs account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that Lloyds had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this 
view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr H received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Lloyds at the 
time.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Lloyds had grounds to believe that Mr H had used fraudulently obtained funds based 
on the evidence it had.
Given this I dont find Lloyds made a mistake in closing his account in line with the terms and 
conditions.
I appreciate what Mr H has said about the impact of the marker, for example when applying 
for a financial product. But I dont have a reasonable basis to require Lloyds to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman