DRN-3650840
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Monecor (London) Ltd t/a ETX Capital incorrectly allowed her to open 
a Contracts for Difference (CFD) account and failed to provide adequate customer care. 
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. ETX have accepted our Investigators opinion, but Mrs S has disagreed and maintains 
that ETX should not have allowed her to open the CFD account and caused the losses she 
incurred. The sequence of events is not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
Conduct of Business (COBS) Rules 10.2 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
handbook outlines the requirements regulated firms such as ETX have to follow.
At account opening, ETX asked Mrs S questions around her experience and 
knowledge to establish the appropriateness of the account. Lack of specific CFD 
experience doesnt mean ETX couldnt offer her the account. They could rely on 
further information such as the industry she worked in indicated a greater 
understanding of the risks and she had taken a trading course with a third party 
introductory broker that provided training on investments and trading prior to opening 
the account with them. She was also presented with ETXs risk warning which she 
had to read and acknowledge before continuing with her application.
COBS 10.2.4 confirms, ETX were within their rights to rely on the information that 
had been provided to them. With this in mind, I am satisfied they have complied with 
their regulatory requirements for account opening.
In opening the account, she also agreed to the terms and conditions of ETXs User 
Agreement and Risk Disclosure Notice, both of which made the risks of trading CFDs 
clear. ETX note she had further knowledge as she attended seminars and webinars 
on trading. So, I am not persuaded that Mrs S wasnt aware of the risks associated 
with this type of trading. 
In terms of being pressurised to open the CFD account, there is nothing to suggest 
any involvement from ETX here. The references apply to the third party introductory 
broker Mrs S used to assist her with opening the account. It is evident the first 
communication she had with ETX was after the account was opened so it wouldnt be 
fair to hold ETX responsible for any pressure she was under to open the account or 
any failings she mentions in relation to communications prior to the account being 
opened.
ETXs decided to take back the bonus they offered to her as part of a promotion. The 
terms of this promotional bonus were explained to her and this is evidenced in her 
communications with ETX on 6 December 2016. As she failed to satisfy the 
conditions of this promotion, ETX made the decision to take back the bonus and I am 
satisfied they were within their rights to do so.
ETXs decision to close Mrs Ss account was in her best interest. She expected an 
advisory service when they provide an execution only service. They were not 
regulated to offer advice, so they were correct not to offer her advice on trading. 
Theyve shown they had attempted to contact Mrs S on numerous occasions but 
there was no answer, but they continued communicating via email. Mrs S herself 
accepted that she was put off calling ETX and this is despite ETX having provided 
her relationship manager details for communication. Theres also nothing to suggest 
ETX should have been aware of her vulnerability sooner and under the 
circumstances with her health concerns, the decision to close her account was in line 
with what I would expect them to do. 
Its clear Mrs S has been significantly impacted by whats happened, but from what 
Ive seen, I am not persuaded that any wrongdoing on ETXs part has been 
established. 
For these reasons, I am not upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Monecor (London) Ltd t/a 
ETX Capital.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman