DRN-3043125
The complaint
Mr M has complained about advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portafina) to switch a defined contribution occupational pension scheme (OPS), a 
personal pension plan (PPP) a Group Personal Pension (GPP) and a Stakeholder pension 
plan (SPP) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). The funds within the SIPP were 
then used to invest in several unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).
Mr M is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr M. 
What happened
Mr M was introduced to Portafina in 2014 after hed been in contact with another business, 
from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed representative 
(AR) of a regulated business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to 
provide pension switch or transfer advice. Portafina had an established business 
arrangement with Firm C, whereby Portafina would provide the pension switch and/or 
transfer advice before referring the client back to Firm C for investment advice, and this 
arrangement was followed for Mr M.
Portafina carried out a review with Mr M. It noted he was 49 years old, employed and was 
earning approximately £36,000 a year. He was married and owned his home valued at 
£230,000 with an outstanding repayment mortgage  he had monthly disposable income of 
£520. It noted Mr M was in good health and believed he was likely to retire at age 66.
Portafina recorded the following information about Mr Ms pensions arrangements:
Mr M had an OPS which had a transfer value of approximately £22,000 and there 
was a small transfer penalty of £200. It had protected tax-free cash (PTFC) of 
approximately 30% and a protected retirement age of 50. It was invested in a 
managed fund which seemed to have had reasonable past performance and had an 
annual management charge (AMC) of 0.875%.
Mr M had a PPP which had a transfer value of approximately £12,000 and was 
invested in a unitized with-profits (UWP) fund which had an AMC of 0.875%. 
Expected future fund performance was weak but there was a wide range of 
alternative funds available.
Mr M had a GPP which had a transfer value of approximately £3,500 and was 
invested approximately 70% in a mixed fund and 30% in a UWP fund. The AMC 
was 0.875% and the expected future fund performance of the UWP was weak.
Mr M had a SPP which had a transfer value of approximately £8,000 and was mostly 
invested in a managed fund which included Lifestyling but had 3rd or 4th quartile 
past performance. The AMC was 0.7%, but a large fund discount would reduce this 
to 0.6% if the fund was above £20,000 and 0.5% if the fund was above £50,000.
Portafina noted Mr Ms objectives were to consolidate his plans and switch to a cheaper 
scheme; to have more flexibility and control; to improve performance and have a greater 
investment fund choice; to improve on his death benefits and to access Tax Free Cash 
(TFC) and his benefits before his retirement date.
The risk assessment Portafina carried out suggested he was a balanced investor. Based 
on Mr Ms circumstances, Portafina recommended that he switch all four plans to a SIPP to 
meet his objectives. Portafina said it wouldnt be providing any advice in relation to where 
Mr Ms funds would be invested after the switch, as this would be given by Firm C.
Portafinas Suitability Report (SR) noted that it would charge an initial advice fee of 5%, of 
which 2% would be paid to Firm C as an introducer agreement. The AMC for the 
recommended SIPP would be 0.5% plus an initial charge of £180. Once the transfer was 
completed Firm C would provide their investment advice and discuss the cost of their 
ongoing advice service.
The SIPP was established in May 2015 and funds totaling £48,130.83 were transferred into 
it in July 2015. Portafina took its 5% initial charge, Firm C were then appointed as servicing 
agent and in August 2015. £7,800 was invested by Firm C in the following UCIS funds:
UCIS
Strategic Residential  £1,600
Motion Picture Global  £1,600
Lakeview UK  £1,600
Brisa Investments  £1,400
Biomass Investments  £1,600
The remainder of the funds were allocated to regulated investment funds.
In July 2016 Mr M appointed a new advisor to manage his SIPP. Firm C went into liquidation 
in 2017 and in March 2018, with the assistance of a CMC, Mr M complained to Portafina 
about the advice he received to switch. He said the advice was negligent and unsuitable for 
someone with no investment experience, a medium attitude to risk (ATR) and low capacity 
for loss. He also argued that Portafina couldnt make its switch recommendation without 
taking responsibility for assessing the underlying SIPP investments.
Portafina rejected his complaint, saying Firm C was responsible for the investment advice. 
Unhappy with Portafinas response, Mr M referred the matter to our service.
An adjudicator considered the matter and concluded that Mr Ms complaint should be 
upheld. He didnt think Portafinas advice was suitable. The adjudicator didnt think Mr M 
shouldve been advised to switch of any of his plans as Portafina had recommended a more 
expensive arrangement. He thought Mr M shouldve been advised to make internal fund 
switches instead. The adjudicator thought Portafina should compensate Mr M for his loss 
and pay an additional £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
Portafina disagreed with the adjudicators findings, saying its advice was suitable and in line 
with Mr Ms circumstances, needs and objectives. It said it had set out the charges and fees 
to Mr M and believed that the recommended platform charges were cheap in comparison to 
others on the market. Portafina maintained Firm C was responsible for any investment 
advice. It disagreed with the suggested method of redress, saying that it was illogical. 
Portafina added that any money award to Mr M should consider the monies available to him 
from the FSCS because of the investment recommendations of Firm C.The adjudicator didnt change his mind so the complaint was referred to an ombudsman for 
a final decision. 
Prior to the complaint being allocated to me, a case reviewer provided an updated view to 
Portafina and Mr M. The case reviewer explained that he felt Portafina was responsible for 
the advice as a whole, including the investments made by Firm C and any losses arising 
from them. This view was based on the regulators alerts issued in 2013 and 2014 about 
pension transfer and switch advice. He thought that Portafinas advice was unsuitable 
because the additional costs of switching all four plans to a SIPP werent justified and 
because Mr M had lost some valuable benefits as a result. He thought Mr M shouldve been 
advised to retain his OPS and SPP and switch the funds held in the PPP and GPP to the 
SPP to take advantage of the lower charges. The case reviewer thought Mr M couldve 
achieved his objectives by switching funds in the SPP to improve performance. While he 
noted Mr M wanted to be able to access his TFC entitlement, he could not do so for at least 
another five years, so there was no immediate need to switch his plans to a SIPP.
The case reviewer thought that Portafina should be held responsible for the entirety of 
Mr Ms losses that flowed from the unsuitable advice to switch his pensions. He set out 
redress that sought to put Mr M as far as possible back into the position he wouldve been in 
if suitable advice had been provided. Portafina didnt respond. 
Mr M has recently confirmed that he made a successful claim to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in respect of the UCIS investments made by Firm C, and 
he received an award of £6,423.72.
The case reviewer explained to Portafina that he still thought it should compensate Mr M for 
the entirety of his loss, despite him having received compensation from the FSCS. This was 
because Mr M had agreed to repay the compensation he received from the FSCS if he 
received compensation from a third party relating to the same claim. So, he was satisfied 
that Mr M would not be compensated twice for the same loss.
Portafina disagreed, saying the fact the FSCS had paid Mr M compensation meant it had 
determined Firm C was in fact liable for the investment advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Portafina advised Mr M to switch his four existing pensions plans to a SIPP but says it didnt 
provide any recommendation regarding the investments to be held in the SIPP as Firm C 
was providing advice on this.
Ive thought about this carefully. But even if it wasnt specifically intending to advise on 
the investments, I think Portafina needed to have an awareness of the intended 
investments in order to give suitable advice. This remains the case even if Firm C was 
actually providing that advice. It is, in my view, reasonable to expect a firm that is 
assessing the suitability of a pension switch to make an assessment of their clients 
ATR and consider the overall investment strategy that applies to that proposed switch. 
This would include a broad understanding of the proposed investments, before it could 
determine whether the switch was in Mr Ms best interest. I believe that as Mr Ms 
financial adviser, Portafina still had a duty to ensure the overall transaction was suitable, 
notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to be involved.The regulators position
I have taken account of relevant laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, and what I consider to be relevant industry practice at the relevant time. These 
include the overarching Principles for Businesses (PRIN). Principles 1 (integrity), 2 (skill, 
care and diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular 
relevance here.
The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook, set out the rules 
regulated businesses have to follow. At the relevant time, COBS 9.2.1R required Portafina to 
take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation was suitable for Mr M. It 
had to obtain information as to Mr Ms knowledge and experience (relevant to the specific 
type of designated investment), his financial situation and investment objectives.
COBS 9.2.2R required Portafina to gather sufficient information from Mr M to ensure the 
recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear the risks involved and that he had 
the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. 
And under COBS 2.1.1R Portafina had to act, honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client."
Having thought carefully about what happened here, I dont think Portafinas advice to switch 
all of Mr Ms existing pension plans to a SIPP was suitable for him. At the time of the advice 
the regulator had made its view clear that it considered in order to suitably advise on pension 
transfers or switches, a firm needed to consider the suitability of the underlying investments 
to be held in it. The regulators position was evident in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated 
items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
I acknowledge that in the scenario set out in the alert, the other firm that made the 
investment recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP was an unregulated 
introducer. Whereas in Mr Ms case, Firm C was authorised to conduct investment business 
under its AR agreement with Firm S, and in turn Firm C could itself be pursued for 
compensation by a consumer within the financial services regulatory regime.
Portafina may believe that this in turn distinguished the circumstances of Mr Ms transaction 
from the scenario that the alert was aimed at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to 
assess the overall suitability of the proposed investments. It might say that was particularly 
the case as it had said to Mr M that it wouldnt be providing any advice on the underlying 
investments as Firm C was doing that. Whilst Ive given that possibility careful thought, 
I dont agree that the alert was limited to those very specific circumstances.I can see that the alert makes it clear that suitable investment advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the suitability of the 
overall proposition when advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for investment in other 
products (such as the SIPP in Mr Ms case). It further refers to the broadly applicable rules 
and guidance that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must first take time to 
familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. In saying that, I dont 
think the FCA intended that in pension switch and transfer cases, regard to the overall 
proposition was only required where the introducing firm was unregulated, or where the 
assets contemplated included unregulated investments. 
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these are standards that have broad application 
to pension switch and transfer advice, but pointing out that it had particular concern about 
cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. So, 
I think the alert is relevant to firms in the position of Portafina in this case. This is further 
demonstrated by an alert from the regulator in 2014 which stated:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not 
suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
I acknowledge that the regulators statement in the alert is not guidance or rules or 
standards in the sense that such requirements are specified by the regulator in its 
Handbook. Nonetheless, I regard it as a relevant consideration when determining this 
complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case.
Both alerts specifically referred to PRIN and COBS, which Portafina was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so.
Portafina appears to have been under the impression that, as it told Mr M it wasnt providing 
any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled it to provide advice on a restricted 
basis. But this wasnt right. Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina couldnt seek to exclude or restrict 
its duty or liability to Mr M under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating under a 
limited retainer didnt absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was 
suitable  again, this had to include consideration of how Mr Ms funds would be invested. 
I dont think there was any ambiguity regarding the regulators position on the matter.
As part of the fact-finding process Portafina had to understand Mr Ms objectives  two of 
which were recorded as to have greater fund choice and improved performance  and the 
related risks. It wasnt free to ignore how Mr Ms funds were going to be invested irrespective 
of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to be inextricably 
linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a switch 
without knowing what Mr M would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind seem 
reasonably possible.
As Portafina didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets of the SIPP it recommended, it says it was unaware of where, further to Firm Cs 
involvement, Mr Ms transferred funds would ultimately be invested. And it didnt set out in its 
suitability report what it thought would be a suitable portfolio of investments for Mr M. As 
Firm C was regulated and able to provide investment advice with a duty to ensure this was 
suitable, Portafina says it saw no issue with this.
I recognise that the FCA allows for two advisers to work together to provide suitable advice 
to their mutual client. However, the alerts make it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on 
a pension switch needs to be aware of the intended investments before it advises on the 
switch, in order to provide suitable advice. So, it shouldve requested this information from 
Firm C before providing advice. And, as confirmed in the 2014 alert, if it didnt fully 
understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held within a SIPP, then it 
should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all So, in the absence of 
Portafina knowing the investments Firm C intended for Mr M, it couldnt provide him with 
suitable advice to switch his pension benefits.
I also accept that as a result of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice. However, I dont agree that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Mr Ms appointed financial adviser, it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable 
advice and act in Mr Ms best interests. And as Ive said, this had to include an awareness of 
where Mr Ms funds would be invested.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Portafina, at any point, checked to see how Firm C 
broadly proposed to invest Mr Ms funds. And I believe it should have, given the unavoidable 
connection this had to the switch it was proposing. As part of its duty of care to Mr M, 
I consider that Portafina shouldve at the very least asked Firm C at the outset for details of 
the model portfolios it adopted for various risk categories. And in doing so it ought to have 
checked these lined up with what it considered to suit each risk group. Further to this 
Portafina shouldve also asked for the details of the portfolio intended for Mr M and the 
proposed investments. I dont think Portafina couldve reasonably assessed the suitability of 
the transaction it was recommending without doing so.
The reality is that having followed Portafinas transfer advice, a significant part of Mr Ms 
SIPP was invested in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings are relevant here. 
Here it said that as well as UCIS only being eligible for promotion to certain customers 
(generally sophisticated, high net worth investors), as an example, even when a customer 
was deemed eligible for the promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved limiting a clients 
exposure to these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In Mr Ms case, 
after initial advice charges and fees were deducted, around 17% of his remaining SIPP 
funds were invested in UCIS. I dont think UCIS was suitable for Mr M at all, and certainly not 
the proportion invested. Theres nothing to indicate Mr M had the requisite knowledge or 
experience to accept or understand the risks associated with these types of investments.
In my view, had Portafina requested information about the proposed investments and been 
advised that Firm C intended to invest that proportion of Mr Ms pension in UCIS, it couldve 
queried this, given that it had only determined that he had a balanced ATR. I think that had 
appropriate enquiries been made, it wouldve become apparent something was amiss with 
Firms Cs proposal and that the switch was therefore unsuitable and likely to lead to Mr M 
being exposed to more risk than Portafina considered appropriate.
Overall, I think Portafina needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation to switch took 
account of the investment proposition that Firm C intended for Mr M. I think it shouldve 
asked Firm C for the specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it 
done so, and Firm C had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portafina to have advised Mr M that it couldnt recommend he switch his pension 
plans in those circumstances. As a result of Portafinas shortcomings here, it seems to me 
that Firm C was in effect given the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how 
Mr Ms SIPP was invested. And if Portafina had warned Mr M against investing in line with 
Firm Cs proposal, I think its more likely than not that Mr M wouldve listened to it and not 
gone ahead with the switch.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Mr Ms funds were ultimately invested. Portafinas recommendation that he 
switch to a SIPP in the first place is an important consideration. And were it not for the switch 
and Portafinas incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding this, Im not persuaded 
Mr M wouldve ultimately gone on to invest as he did.
The advice to switch
Ive considered whether the advice to switch Mr Ms existing pension plans was suitable, but 
I dont think it was. 
At the time of Portafinas advice Mr M was 49 years old, employed and in good health. He 
was a standard retail investor with 17 years until he intended to retire. The plans being 
switched formed most if not all of his retirement provision. Other than his pensions there was 
no record of Mr M having any investments or savings. Although he was a homeowner, he 
had a large outstanding amount on his mortgage.
Mr Ms objectives were to move to a cheaper scheme, greater investment choice and 
performance, to pass on death benefits to his dependents and flexibility to access his 
pension earlier than normal retirement age if required. I dont think any of these, either 
individually or collectively, provided a compelling reason to switch his existing pension plans 
into a SIPP.
Mr Ms ATR was established as balanced. Having considered his overall circumstances, 
I think this was reasonable particularly given he intended to continue working for another 17 
years and so he had time to build further retirement provisions and recoup any losses.
Two of the objectives, potentially higher investment performance and improved death 
benefits may or may not have been achieved by switching, but this was purely speculative, 
especially when Portafina did not know how the funds were to be invested. Any improved 
investment performance leading to an increase in the fund value and a higher death benefit, 
was entirely dependent upon how the funds performed over the term to Mr Ms retirement.
I have also seen nothing to persuade me that Mr M was seeking a sophisticated investment 
proposition or why he wanted access to a wide range of investments. On the contrary, I think 
he preferred simplicity. I think that greater investment fund choice was of limited benefit 
when Mr M had little experience of investing in stocks and shares. There wasnt any 
explanation as to why he wanted a greater fund choice, or what investments he wanted to 
make that were not available with his existing providers. Furthermore, the collective value of 
the pensions was relatively low, meaning that he was unlikely to be able to spread his 
investment across a significantly greater range of funds than the funds his existing schemes 
already employed. And I dont think the adviser could reasonably conclude that Mr M wanted 
or needed access to non-standard or unregulated investments, which the SIPP would 
provide.
I can see that the suitability report noted that Mr M wanted a cheaper scheme and 
I acknowledge that the SIPP recommended was not particularly expensive  it had an AMC 
of 0.5%, which was lower than his existing schemes. But there was a clear cost to switching his existing pension plans into a SIPP. There was the exit charge on his OPS of £200, as 
well as the 5% initial fee charged by Portafina. There would also be charges associated with 
Firm Cs ongoing investment advice, plus other product or fund charges depending on the 
investments selected by Firm C. Of course, some of these could offset the charges of the 
existing plans. But its clear that there would be a significant cost to switching and I dont 
think Portafina was able to justify this, particularly in view of the fact that they didnt know of 
the additional charges to be made by Firm C.
Furthermore, Portafinas argument that the transfer would result in lower charges in the long 
run was also undermined by its own statement in the suitability report:
Overall, this strategy will cost more than your existing arrangement. Whilst the intention is 
that this will be more than compensated for by the increased growth of your pension fund 
this cannot be guaranteed.
Any additional charge to a consumer would provide a strong reason not to proceed with a 
course of action. So, the benefits of switching would need to outweigh the cost to Mr Ms 
pension, as he was unlikely to be able to recoup these charges through improved fund 
performance over the short to medium term. So, Ive considered whether it wouldve still 
been suitable advice to switch despite the increased costs.
When considering a pension switch, consideration should generally be given to 
recommending switching to an SPP, because the running costs are generally lower. Mr M 
has an existing SPP, which was performing well and had a total AMC, including fund 
charges, of 0.7%, which would have reduced to 0.6% if Mr M held more than £20,000 in the 
fund, and 0.5% if he held more than £50,000. Its clear to me that the SIPP would be more 
expensive overall once investment costs were included. Given that Mr M already held 
around £8,000 in the SPP and had around another £40,000 held in his other three pension 
plans, I think it ought to have been clear to the adviser that Mr M could achieve his 
objectives and benefit from the lower charges associated with his SPP, particularly if he 
switched the benefits held in one or more of his other pension plans, which wouldve lowered 
the overall AMC further. This wouldve also achieved one of Mr Ms other objectives  
consolidation  thereby simplifying his pension arrangements without exposing it to higher 
ongoing charges. 
Portafina has argued that its own modelling showed that Mr M would be in a better position 
in the SIPP. It says its advisers own calculation showed Mr M would be better off in the long 
run, even after charges were taken into consideration. A copy of this calculation wasnt 
provided, but I dont think this is needed when making my decision. Im not satisfied that this 
is a strong justification for the recommendation if it didnt know how the funds were to be 
invested. Portafinas own model didnt know what charges would be applied on the funds 
within the SIPP, or how they might reasonably be expected to perform. Any comparison of 
both charges and performance would therefore be purely speculative and not based on the 
reality of how the fund was to be invested.
I accept that the investment performance prospects of the existing funds in the PPP and 
GPP were poor. The AMC of 0.875% for each was also comparatively too high given the 
poor past performance. So, I think it was reasonable to switch the benefits held in these 
plans to another. However, for the reasons given above, I think the adviser ought to have 
recommended they be switched to the SPP, not to a SIPP. This wouldve resulted in the 
AMC for the SPP reducing to 0.6% as Mr M wouldve held in excess of £20,000 in the plan. 
It wouldve also provided the opportunity for better growth as the suitability report noted the 
SPPs average performance was 6.21% over the last five years.  The OPS had a PTFC entitlement of approximately 30%. There was also a small transfer 
penalty of approximately £200. The existing managed fund was performing adequately  the 
suitability report noted average performance of 8.58% over the last five years  and the fund 
matched Mr Ms Balanced ATR. While the AMC was around 1%, I dont think there was 
sufficient justification for losing the PTFC and incurring the transfer penalty by switching this 
pension to a new plan. While Mr M may have been content at the time to lose this benefit, 
I dont think there is sufficient evidence to show he understood the value of it, or how the 
value of it could change closer to retirement. As he was still around six years from being able 
to access this benefit, making a decision to switch the plan at this time was premature. So, 
overall, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation to switch the benefits held in the OPS 
elsewhere.
While Portafina noted that Mr M wanted flexibility and to be able to access his pension 
benefits before he retired, I think it was far too early to say what Mr M actually needed in 
retirement. I think it was too early to say whether he would actually need to take TFC at 55 
and whether or not the PTFC would become more valuable to him as he became older. 
I think I was also too early to say he wouldve definitely wanted income flexibility. Mr M could 
not access his pension until age 55 and he intended to keep working until age 66. So, I dont 
think income flexibility was required for at least 6 years. In my view, there wasnt any need to 
address this objective at that time.
The SR also noted Mr M wanted improved death benefits. But improved death benefits 
couldnt be guaranteed  it would depend on the performance of the underlying investments 
and their liquidity when claimed. Given the small overall value of the pension fund, I think the 
adviser ought to have explored life assurance instead. This wouldve been a cheap 
alternative means of meeting this objective, without taking on the extra charges associated 
with the SIPP.
For the reasons set out above, I think the advice to switch all four plans to the SIPP was 
unsuitable because Mr M was not an experienced investor and so did not need the wider 
investment choice the SIPP would provide. It would also be a more costly arrangement, 
once the SIPP provider, fund and adviser charges were taken into account. Overall, I think 
Mr M shouldve been advised to retain his OPS, which was performing well. But I think it 
wouldve been suitable advice for him to switch his PPP and GPP to his SPP. If Mr M 
wanted better performance (above the 6.21% growth noted over the last five years) an 
internal fund switch ought to have been considered in the first instance. I accept that the 
objective of consolidation would only be partially met, but I think that would be justified by the 
cost advantages and simplified ongoing management of the pension funds provided by this 
solution.
Ive thought about whether, if hed been correctly advised by Portafina not to switch, Mr M 
would have gone ahead with it anyway. Having carefully considered all the circumstances in 
this case, I dont believe he would have. Theres nothing to suggest that Mr M was seriously 
considering moving his existing plans prior to being referred to Portafina for a pension 
review. My understanding is that this referral came about as a result of him meeting with 
another company  Mr M didnt appear to be proactively seeking pensions advice and 
couldnt access his benefits for another six years.
Is Portafina wholly responsible for Mr Ms loss?
I recognise it can be argued that Firm C is also liable to Mr M and that in turn I should 
apportion only part of the responsibility to Portafina. Ive given this careful thought, but in the 
circumstances, I think it is fair to find that Portafina is wholly responsible and, in turn, to direct 
it to compensate Mr M for the whole of his loss. I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were in a business relationship 
in which each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring about a single 
outcome for clients  pension transfer advice and investment. Because Firm C wasnt 
authorised to provide pension transfer advice, it referred Mr M to Portafina. Portafina advised 
Mr M to switch his benefits to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for his existing 
pension benefits to be switched over. I acknowledge that Firm C advised Mr M to invest a 
significant share of his SIPP funds in UCIS. But, as Ive explained, Portafinas understanding 
that it could reasonably limit its advice to just the switch and the SIPP was wrong; it needed 
to consider the proposed investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mr M on them. It was 
only as a result of Portafinas involvement that Mr M switched the funds held in his existing 
plans to the SIPP. Portafinas role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully 
reliant on the funds being switched over first; if that hadnt happened, he couldnt have 
invested as he did. In any event, and as I say, it is clear that Firm C and Portafina had 
agreed to enter a business relationship together which was designed to bring about the very 
outcome that has caused Mr Ms loss.  
Portafina argues that Firm C is responsible for the investment advice. So, it says the amount 
of any award made against Portafina should be limited by taking the payment that FSCS has 
already made to Mr M into account.
In ordinary circumstances, because the FSCS describes itself as a fund of last resort, it is 
my understanding that it is unlikely it will pay out on claims where it is aware that another 
firm was involved in the transaction, and where it considers there is a reasonable prospect of 
the consumer making a recovery against that firm for the loss suffered. Portafina says the 
fact the FSCS has paid Mr M compensation should shed some doubt on this understanding. 
But whether to postpone payment of compensation (to enable the consumer to recover 
compensation from a third party) is a matter entirely for the FSCS.
In this case, it seems the FSCS decided to award Mr M £6,423.72 before the determination 
of Mr Ms complaint with this service. In those circumstances, I am aware that as a condition 
of accepting compensation from the FSCS, Mr M was asked to give to the FSCS an 
assignment of his rights to make a claim against third parties. This would have enabled the 
FSCS to make a claim in recovery of that compensation against those third parties and the 
PI insurer of Firm C.
It follows that in order for Mr M to make a complaint to this service about Portafina, he 
needed to ask the FSCS for a re-assignment of those rights. I can see that Mr M has now 
obtained that reassignment which contains, as a condition, the following requirement: 
The Claimant agrees that in respect of the Reassigned Rights the proceeds of the claim 
shall first be applied to repay an amount equal to the Compensation Sum to FSCS together 
with interest on the Compensation Sum from the date of receipt of the proceeds by the 
Claimant to the date of payment by the Claimant to FSCS at a daily rate equivalent to the 
Bank of England base rate from time to time (subject to a minimum rate of 0.1%), such 
payment to be made to FSCS within 14 days of receipt. The payment to FSCS shall be 
made after the deduction from the proceeds of the Claimant's reasonable legal costs 
incurred in pursuing a claim in respect of the Reassigned Rights.
Portafina argues that because Mr M has already recovered £6,423.72 from the FSCS, it 
should not have to account to him for that portion of his loss. However, as per the 
reassignment of rights agreement that Mr M entered into with the FSCS, I can see that Mr M 
has agreed to repay the compensation he received from the FSCS if he receives 
compensation from a third party relating to the same claim. 
From this, it is my view that: 1. There is no real risk of Mr M benefiting from double recovery, as Mr M is 
contractually required to pay back to FSCS the full amount of the compensation it 
paid to him; and 
2. I have seen nothing to suggest that Mr M is unlikely to comply with that requirement 
in accordance with the deed of reassignment; 
3. If I did not direct Portafina to pay compensation to Mr M for the full amount of his loss 
(in circumstances where I have determined it is responsible for 100% of that loss), he 
would nonetheless still be required to account to FSCS from the compensation he 
receives from Portafina and would, in turn, be left out of pocket.  
All in all, I maintain my view that the fair and reasonable outcome is for Portafina to pay 
Mr M compensation for the full amount of his loss.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr M back into the position he would likely 
have been in, had it not been for Portafinas unsuitable advice. I think this would have meant 
he remained invested in the OPS funds and would have switched the GPP and PPP to a 
better performing fund in the SPP. 
The calculations below should be based on the proportionate transfer values of the 
respective plans paid into the SIPP.
The PPP & GPP
Compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Portafina should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr Ms pension plan to increase its value
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Portafina is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ms pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ms actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age  likely to be 20%. However, if 
Mr M would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Portafina should give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per year from 
date of decision to date of 
settlement (if compensation 
is not paid within 28 days of 
the business being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portafina should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Portafina is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculation. 
Portafina may require that Mr M provides an undertaking to pay Portafina any amount he 
may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Portafina will 
need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portafina totals all those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ms circumstances and risk attitude. 
The OPS and SPPAny loss Mr M has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of these 
plans from the scheme administrator on the basis that they had remained invested in the 
existing funds, and then following the methodology as for the PPP & GPP set out above, but 
replacing the benchmark value with the notional value.
I consider comparing the notional value outlined above is the fairest way of resolving this 
complaint in respect of the OPS. However, if Portafina isnt able to obtain a notional value of 
the previous OPS, it must follow the same methodology as for the benchmark comparison in 
respect of the PPP and GPP.
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr Ms pension plan to increase its value
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If Portafina is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ms pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
In addition, the loss of the PTFC Mr M had available to him under the OPS should be 
quantified by valuing, at the date of calculation, the amount of Mr Ms OPS fund in excess of 
25% which would not have been subject to income tax had he not transferred. Portafina 
should establish the marginal rate of income tax the extra taxed funds will suffer in future. As 
above, I think an assumption of basic rate income tax is reasonable based on Mr Ms 
financial circumstances. This should be factored into the sum ultimately paid to Mr M as 
compensation.
Interest should be added to this sum at 8% simple per year from date of decision to date of 
settlement (if compensation is not paid within 28 days of the business being notified of 
acceptance).
Distress and inconvenience.
Pay to Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by Portafina failing to act in his 
best interest.
Future SIPP fees
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. 
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portafina taking over the investment, or this 
is something that Mr M can discuss with the SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how 
long that will take. 
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portafina pay Mr M an upfront lump sum equivalent 
to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.  
My final decisionI uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, 
simple format.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman