DRN-1856245
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly changed his address on its systems.
What happened
Mr S says Barclays changed his address details on its systems which meant a credit card 
statement was sent to the wrong address by a business I will call B. Mr S says neither B or 
Barclays can explain what took place and he was concerned about potential security and 
fraud issues. He would like Barclays to provide a full audit of its internal systems about the 
address change and would like further compensation for what took place. Mr S says a 
similar problem took place in 2014 and he was paid £250 compensation.
Barclays says the address change was made in March 2019 and was made via Mr Ss 
Barclays mobile telephone application known as a BMB. It says the BMB can only be 
accessed by a password or biometric code and so its likely Mr S made the change. Barclays 
accepts it took some time to deal with the complaint and has apologised for that and paid 
£75 compensation which it says it will increase by a further £25.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the address change had been made via the BMB and likely to have been made by 
Mr S. The investigator didnt think it our role to investigate Barclays systems.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and says the BMB doesnt allow a partial address change and 
so his Barclays account details ought to have changed. He maintains the error was made by 
Barclays and would like it to provide the full report it says it was going to carry out. Mr S 
would like further compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Barclays has made a fair and 
reasonable further offer of compensation. I appreciate that Mr S will have unanswered 
questions about what took place and that he will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no dispute here that Mr Ss address was changed. I have seen evidence from 
Barclays records that the change was made by the BMB and I think on balance it more likely 
that Mr S made that change as I can see that to access the BMB either a biometric code or 
password is needed. I appreciate that Mr S may not have intended to make that change and 
I appreciate he says only one address can be registered but Im satisfied the address was 
only changed in respect of his account with B and not his Barclays account. So, I think on 
balance it was possible to have two different addresses.
Im satisfied that Barclays has investigated Mr Ss concerns, and as the investigator has 
explained, its not our role to audit Barclays systems or require it to provide us with what I 
think would be commercially sensitive information or reports about those systems.
In any event Im satisfied that one credit card statement was sent to the wrong address and 
that Mr Ss account or personal information were not compromised. I dont think he suffered 
any financial loss and its not our role to decide if Barclays breached data protection laws as 
that is the role of the Information Commissioners Office.
There is no dispute that Barclays didnt deal with Mr Ss complaint as it ought to have. I can 
see that it has fairly apologised for that and paid £75 compensation. Im satisfied its offer of a 
further £25 compensation is fair and reasonable. And whilst I appreciate Mr S says he was 
awarded £250 some years ago, we look at each complaint separately and consider if the 
compensation offer is fair and reasonable for this complaint. For the reasons I have 
explained, that Mr S didnt suffer any financial loss and the delay in dealing with the 
complaint wouldnt have had a significant affect on Mr S, Im satisfied Barclays offer is 
appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has made a fair and reasonable offer of £25 
compensation. Mr Ss acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman