DRN-1933258
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc wouldn't accept the documentation he provided 
when he tried to change his address on his account. He also considers that the adviser in 
the branch made a racist comment towards him. Bank of Scotland trades in this case under 
its Halifax brand.
What happened
Mr B had changed his address and wanted Halifax to amend its records to reflect that. In 
order to do that in branch, he was told he would need to provide certain documentation, and 
the bank suggested a council tax bill. However, when he provided his council tax bill, he was 
told it wasn't sufficient.
Halifax said that it needed two pieces of evidence to show that Mr B had changed his 
address. And, because it didn't have a record of his signature on file, one of those needed to 
be photographic identification - such as a passport or driving licence. His bank card, for 
example, wasn't sufficient. The bank said that Mr B was unwilling to provide other forms of 
identification that he had at home. He indicated that he would use the bank's mobile app 
instead. 
The bank's recollection is that Mr B objected to its suggestion that he provide a council tax 
bill, saying that he objected to that line of questioning.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. She 
didn't think however that the bank's actions had been unreasonable and didn't recommend 
that it do anything to put matters right. Mr B asked that an ombudsman review the case.        
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
Halifax has said it needed two forms of identification before it could change Mr B's address 
details in branch. Different considerations apply where changes are made using the bank's 
app or online banking, because different security measures are in place. That's in common 
with other banks, which generally require one document to show a customer's address (such 
as a utility bill) and something else to show that the person in branch is who they claim to be. 
Where the bank holds the customer's signature, it can compare it with a signature provided 
by the person wanting to make the change to the account. But where there's no signature on 
record, the bank may ask to see an official document with a photograph on it. 
Halifax says that it didn't have Mr B's signature on file. So, whilst the council tax bill showed 
a Mr B's address, it didn't show that it was the same Mr B who was in the branch. In the circumstances, it wasn't unreasonable of Halifax to ask for further identification. In doing so, 
it was seeking to minimise the risk of fraud which might affect both the bank and Mr B.
I don't think it was unreasonable of the bank to suggest that Mr B provide a council tax bill. It 
was a way in which he could - with other identification - demonstrate what his address was 
so that it could be changed in the bank's records.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything more to resolve 
Mr B's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman