DRN-3410725
The complaint
Ms R complains that Everyday Lending Limited shouldnt have agreed to a joint loan with her 
now ex-partner, as the relationship was abusive and controlling.
What happened
In March 2018, Ms R said her ex-partner persuaded her into applying for a loan with
Everyday. She said Everyday declined her application but agreed to the loan if taken out
jointly with her then partner.
Ms R said the loan was supposed to be for their wedding. The loan was paid into her
ex- partners account, and she did buy herself a dress from the funds.
Ms R said the relationship had always been controlling, she met her ex-partner when she
was 17 years old and he was 10 years her senior. When they met, shed plans to go to
university and had received a pay-out for medical compensation.
Shed used her money to pay off his debts and to financially support him. She said because
of his controlling nature she hadnt gone to university. And she was prevented from regularly
visiting her relatives, something she deeply regretted following the death of her mother.
Ms R said shed suffered for a number of years from anxiety and depression and this
worsened following her mothers death. She said this and their financial situation added
pressure on the relationship, and it broke down completely. She said her ex-partner didnt
accept the breakup and police had to be called to remove him from the address. She said it
became ever more difficult as they worked at the same place. She was able to take a work
secondment abroad for a few weeks, but this didnt resolve the issue. And in the end, she
had to leave her job.
Initially they agreed to both pay a half share of the loan repayment but her financially
difficulties made this impossible for her. She spoke to Everyday who agreed she didnt have
any disposable income left after shed paid her priority bills. She said her ex-partner stopped
paying completely when he found she wasnt paying anything towards the loan. Ms R said
Everyday passed over the loan to another business who had chased her for payment. Ms R
didnt think Everyday had acted fairly or reasonably in agreeing to her being part of the loan
as she hadnt been able to afford it. She complained to Everyday as she wanted her
connection to the loan to be removed to bring an end to a difficult time in her life.
Everyday said theyd done reasonable and proportionate checks which showed the loan was
affordable at the time for Ms R and her ex-partner. They said theyd acted with consideration
and forbearance in helping Ms R when shed gotten into financial difficulty when the
relationship ended. Theyd checked her finances and could see she didnt have any
disposable income. And since then theyve only chased her ex-partner for repayment of the
loan. They said as it was a joint loan, they were required to report accurately the account
history of the loan to the credit reference agencies.
Ms R wasnt happy with Everydays response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Everyday acted irresponsibly in lending to Ms R as she couldnt afford
the repayments. He said this had put her in an unfair financial relationship with her
ex-partner. He said Ms R should be removed from the agreement, and any payments shed
made should be refunded to her, with an additional 8% simple interest. He said the loan
should also be removed from Ms Rs credit file.
Everyday didnt agree, they said as this was a joint loan it wasnt fair to the other party to
only consider Ms Rs situation. They didnt agree with the investigators findings, as Ms Rs
ex-partner had been repaying the loan up to when the couple separated. They said the
evidence theyd seen was of a couple sharing household expenditure. They asked for an
ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2022 that said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to not uphold this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to thank Ms R for being open about her circumstances to us. I can see
shes had a difficult time and Im very sorry to hear about everything shes experienced.
Shes explained the difficulties she went through and its ongoing impact on her after the
relationship ended.
When a complaint is about a joint loan it isnt always possible for us to consider its merits
without both parties agreeing to the complaint. This is because the outcome of the complaint
could impact both parties. Ms R and her now ex-partner agreed when they took out the loan
with Everyday that they would be jointly and severally liable to repay the loan. What this
means is that Everyday could ask Ms R and her ex-partner, or both of them, to repay all of
the debt on the account.
Ive looked at what happened at the time the loan was taken out. Ms R said she went to an
Everyday branch to apply for a loan to pay towards her and her then partners wedding. Ms R
said she initially applied for the loan in her own name, but this was declined. Her ex-partner
wasnt with her in the branch, from what I can see it was suggested by Everyday they make
a joint application. And it was Ms R who approached her ex-partner about the joint
application after her initial application was declined. She spoke to her ex-partner over the
phone while she was in the branch and the joint application was made in this way. In these
circumstances its difficult for me to find that Ms R was coerced into applying for the loan or
being party to it by her ex-partner, or that there was anything that should have given
Everyday cause for concern that she might be.
Everyday carried out an affordability assessment based on Ms R and her ex partners
monthly income, credit commitments, and they calculated day to day living expenses as a
percentage of their monthly income. I can see Everyday checked their credit history, verified
their payslips and checked their bank statements. The assessment calculated Ms R and her
ex-partner had a disposable income of around £350 between them after the deduction for
the new loan repayment of £316.08. And the details Ive seen reflect the figures used by
Everyday in their affordability assessment.
While Ms Rs bank statements show the bulk of the credit commitments leaving her bank
account. I can see that her ex partners account showed payments being transferred to her
account, and outgoings for utilities, food, petrol and media. I can also see that her ex-partner
around the time of the loan settled the payday loans.I would usually expect that when someone is living with a partner, that the affordability of any
loan will take into account that the partner may be contributing to living costs. Where a loan
is applied for jointly, its reasonable to take into account the income and expenditure of both
parties  and that might mean that a loan that wouldnt be affordable for one party on their
own can responsibly be lent to both of them. And while the loan was put into Ms Rs ex
partners account, the direct debit for the monthly repayment of the loan was being taken
from the same account. So, I dont think that, based on the information that Ms R gave, and
the information that Everyday had, that they acted irresponsibly when they approved the
loan.
Ms R has outlined some instances prior to the loan when she felt her ex-partner was being
controlling, an example being he didnt let her visit her mother as he wanted to go out for a
meal. But I dont think that Everyday should have thought the loans were unaffordable for Ms
R at the time. Or that Ms R was being coerced into applying for the loan as they considered
each party to the loan was contributing towards the household.
Ms R said she didnt receive any benefit from the loan as it was paid into her ex-partners
account. From Everydays records I can see that the monthly repayments for the loan from
March 2018 until August 2018 were taken from Ms Rs ex-partners account. And I havent
seen any monies being transferred from Ms Rs bank account to cover the repayment. From
Ms Rs testimony the difficulties around the repaying of the loan and the escalation of abuse
stemmed from the breakup of the relationship. Ms Rs ex-partner, at first was willing to
continue to make payments for the loan but I think took the opportunity to apply pressure on
to Ms R, despite being made aware that she didnt have the resources to make any
contribution towards the loan repayments. And he later chose to stop making any further
payments.
I cant hold Everyday responsible for what has happened to Ms R and I dont think they were
aware of any issues at the time the loan was taken out. But I can see that now these things
are known, theyve tried to help Ms R. They completed an income and expenditure with her
that showed she didnt have any disposable income to be able to make any payments
towards the loan and have said they wont chase her for any repayments.
I appreciate Ms R will be disappointed by my decision. But from the evidence Ive seen I
think it was a mutual agreement between Ms R and her ex-partner to take on the loan. So, I
think there is a mutual responsibility for the loan agreement. Ms R now finds herself in
financial difficulty but from the evidence Ive seen Everyday has acted with forbearance and
consideration in trying to help Ms R in her current situation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Everyday hasnt asked for any further evidence or comments to be considered.
Ms R didnt agree with the provisional decision and asked for further consideration. She 
commented that:
shed experienced controlling abuse for several years before she was strong enough 
to take the steps to leave her ex-partner. And hed looked to her to get the loan solely 
in her name as she had a cleaner credit history;
theyd attended the branch together and she hadnt spoken to her ex-partner over the 
phone, she said Everyday just wanted to sell them the loan, so hadnt properly 
considered her credit commitments before agreeing to the loan;
Everyday should have taken a separate view of her and her ex-partners financial 
situation when assessing the ability to repay the loan;Everyday had taken the money shed received from her mothers estate into account 
in their assessment;
her ex-partner had applied pressure after the breakup for her to pay half towards the 
loan;
shed had to take out payday loans and other credit because of the pressure being 
applied to repay the loan; and
Everyday hadnt helped her as theyd sent collectors to her door chasing her for 
repayments to the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the comments made by Ms R, but Ive not been persuaded to change my 
thinking and so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
To determine the affordability of the loan Everyday needed to carry out an affordability 
assessment on both Ms R and her ex-partner as it was a joint loan. On reviewing the 
records, I can see Ms R initially applied for the loan solely in her name, and whilst discussing 
the loan with Everyday, her ex-partner was put onto the phone discussion. I now understand 
that Ms R and her ex-partner were together at the time, and later went into the Everyday 
branch together to complete the loan application.
Ms R has said that Everyday hadnt considered the level of credit she was already 
committed too. But on the evidence, Ive seen Everyday had looked into Ms Rs finances and  
hadnt accept her sole application on the basis that she alone couldnt afford it. But a loan 
that wouldnt be affordable for one party on their own can responsibly be lent as a joint 
application. And I can see the income and expenditure of both Ms R and her ex-partner was 
considered at the time of the loan application. I havent seen any evidence that Everyday 
could have considered that Ms R was being coerced into the loan. So, I dont think Everyday 
acted unreasonably in considering the loan was a mutual agreement between Ms R and her 
ex-partner and  theyd assessed its affordability based on their joint income and expenditure. 
I can also see from Everydays records that theyd reviewed Ms Rs bank statements and 
had noted the monies from Ms Rs mothers estate as family and wedding costs. And they 
havent included these in their affordability assessment.
I understand this has been a difficult time for Ms R and she has continued to struggle 
financially. After the breakup in the relationship I can see Everyday tried to establish how the 
loan was to be repaid. There was an agreement for Ms R and her ex-partner to pay half 
each towards the loan, but this agreement quickly broke down as it wasnt sustainable for Ms 
R. And her ex-partner made it clear he wasnt prepared to take over the responsibility of the 
loan in its entirety.
When someone is in financial difficulty its expected that the lender will treat them with 
forbearance and due consideration. The Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) 7.3.5 gives 
examples of how a business can do this, and I think Everyday has shown they have tried to 
help Ms R. By  trying to seek an amicable agreement to the loan repayments, deferring 
arrears on the account, freezing interest charges, pointing Ms R to debt counselling services 
and debt management plans. They also carried out an income and expenditure check to 
assess Ms Rs financial situation, following which they identified she didnt have any 
disposable income. And Ms R has confirmed that Everyday arent seeking any further 
payments from her. I note Ms R isnt happy with the current owner of the debt and their conduct. As the actions 
arent Everydays its not something I can consider in this complaint. Ms R would need to first 
log a complaint with that business. If shes unhappy with their response, she may be able to 
bring her complaint to us.
So, I think there is a mutual responsibility for the loan agreement. And I dont think Everyday 
acted irresponsibly in lending to Ms R. 
I know Ms R will be disappointed with my decision, I wish her continued strength for the 
future.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Ombudsman