DRN-4323782
The complaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked and closed his account without 
providing an explanation or warning. Mr T says this caused him unnecessary inconvenience, 
embarrassment and worry for which he should be compensated.
What happened
Mr T had accounts with NatWest.
In October 2022, NatWest decided to review how Mr T was operating his accounts. Whilst it 
conducted its review the bank blocked Mr Ts access to his accounts, this meant Mr T 
couldnt access the funds in the accounts. 
Mr T discovered that his account was blocked when he tried to view his accounts online and 
use his card whilst out shopping. Hes explained that he went into a branch to try and find 
out what was happening with his accounts. He said when he did, the staff were unhelpful 
and would only tell him to expect a letter from the bank within a few days. However, Mr T 
never received any letters so made further trips to branch to try and find out what was 
happening and gain access to the money in his accounts. But each time he visited he was 
told to expect a letter.
Mr Ts accounts were blocked between 13 and 24 October 2022. At the time the balance of 
his accounts was around £650. Following its review, NatWest decided to close all of Mr Ts 
accounts. The bank wrote to him in December 2022 giving him two months notice that hed 
need to make alternative banking arrangements.
Mr T says he was very upset and frustrated by what the staff said to him when he visited the 
branch. Hes also said because of the block he had to ask friends and family to lend him 
money which was embarrassing. He said he had no other money of his own so paying for 
everyday essentials was difficult and the whole situation was very stressful.
Mr T complained to NatWest about the block and closure of his accounts. In response, 
NatWest said it should have provided Mr T with better service when he asked them about 
the block in branch. It apologised and paid Mr T £130 compensation for any trouble and 
upset hed been caused by having to go into branch on more than one occasion. NatWest 
said it hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Ts accounts. And it had 
done so in line with the account terms and its regulatory obligations. 
Mr T wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service where an 
investigator considered it. The investigator asked NatWest to provide more information about 
why it had blocked and closed Mr Ts accounts. But NatWest said it couldnt provide 
anything more than it had already provided to us. NatWest also said that it was entitled to 
block and close Mr Ts accounts. But accepted it should have done things better than it did 
when Mr T spoke to them about the block to his accounts each time he visited a branch. 
The investigator also asked Mr T for more information about his circumstances at the time 
his accounts were blocked and the impact of the banks actions on him. Mr T provided his 
credit file which showed at the time he had another account with a different bank and access 
to credit cards.
The investigator said that based on the limited information the bank had provided, he 
couldnt say the bank had treated Mr T fairly when it had blocked and closed his accounts. 
He thought the amount of compensation offered by NatWest was fair and reasonable. But he 
also thought NatWest should pay Mr T 8% interest on the balance of his accounts for loss of 
use of funds whilst his accounts were blocked. NatWest accepted what the investigator said. 
Mr T didnt. He wants the bank to explain why it blocked and closed his accounts. And more 
compensation.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect 
persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. Its common industry 
practice for firms to restrict access to an account to conduct a review on a customer and/or 
the activity on an account. The terms of the account also permit NatWest to block an 
account. This means NatWest is entitled to block and review an account at any time.
Banks are also entitled to end their business relationship with a customer, as long as this is 
done fairly, doesnt breach law or regulations and is in keeping with the terms and 
conditions. In this instance the terms of Mr Ts accounts say that in certain instances 
NatWest can close the accounts with immediate notice and by providing 60 days notice.  
NatWest wrote to Mr T in December 2022, giving him two months notice that it was closing 
his accounts and that hed need to make alternative banking arrangements.
I understand Mr T wants NatWest to explain the reason it applied the blocks to his accounts 
and then closed them. It cant be pleasant being told you are no longer wanted as a 
customer, more so when like Mr T youve been a long standing customer. But NatWest 
doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. Its under no 
obligation to tell Mr T the reasons behind the account review and block, as much as hed like 
to know. Its also under no obligation to provide Mr T with the reasons it no longer wants him 
as a customer. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr T this information. 
And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
However, NatWest needs to provide information to this service so we can fairly decide a 
complaint. Despite being asked by the investigator, NatWest has failed to provide 
information about why it blocked Mr Ts accounts and the reasons why it no longer wanted 
him as a customer. Ive considered what NatWest has said about why it wont provide further 
information to our service about the reasons it blocked closed Mr Ts accounts. This service 
has the power to request evidence of this nature under the dispute resolution rules (DISP) 
and Im not persuaded the reasons given by NatWest exclude it from complying with these 
rules. So, in this particular case, because of the lack of information I cant be satisfied that 
NatWest has treated Mr T fairly when it blocked and closed his accounts. Taking this into 
account, I agree with the investigator that NatWest should pay Mr T compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by blocking and closing his accounts.NatWest has offered to pay Mr T £130 compensation for how it treated Mr T whilst his 
accounts were blocked. Mr T has explained that when he discovered his accounts were 
blocked, he visited a branch to try and find out was happening. He says that when he did so 
the staff wouldnt give him much information and simply told him to expect a letter that would 
explain things. But Mr T never received a letter. So, he had to revisit a branch. But each time 
he was given the same explanation, until his account was unlocked during his last visit on 24 
October 2022. 
Having considered what Mr T has told us about how the block and closure of his accounts 
impacted him Ive no doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time for him. He wasnt able to 
access the money in his accounts for just over two weeks and says he had to arrange to 
borrow money from others. He also had to go to the trouble of visiting a bank branch on 
more than one occasion when he didnt receive the promised letter from NatWest. 
So, Im satisfied that the block and closure of his accounts has caused Mr T trouble and 
upset. Therefore, I think he should receive compensation for this. NatWest has already paid 
Mr T £130 compensation. But Mr T wants more. 
Having looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I havent found 
grounds to increase the level of compensation for the trouble and upset he was caused. Im 
satisfied that £130 compensation is a fair amount of compensation and proportionate to the 
trouble and upset Mr T was caused when NatWest blocked and closed his accounts. In 
reaching this conclusion Ive also kept in mind that Mr T had access to other accounts at the 
time. 
In this case Mr H has been deprived of funds in his accounts for around two weeks - money 
that he should have had available to him to use as he wanted. I cant say for sure what the 
specific cost of not having these funds available would be. It will have influenced a whole 
host of decisions about spending and borrowing over that time. With that in mind Im 
satisfied awarding 8% simple interest on the amount for the period it wasnt available to Mr H 
is appropriate. It is a reflection of the cost of being deprived these funds. Its also in line with 
the statutory interest rate on judgement debts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint and direct National Westminster Bank 
Plc to put things right by doing the following: 
Pay Mr T 8% simple interest on the sum of Mr Ts accounts from 13 October 2022 
until 24 October 2022
HM Revenue & Customs requires National Westminster Bank Plc to withhold income tax 
from the above-mentioned interest. National Westminster Bank Plc should give Mr T a 
certificate showing how much is taken off if Mr T asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman