DRN-2915539
The complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Opus lent irresponsibly when it approved his
credit card and later increased the credit limit. Mr H also says Opus failed to help while he
was experiencing financial difficulties.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt intend to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. I said: 
Mr H successfully applied for a credit card with Opus in March 2018 and was given a £600
credit limit. When Mr H applied, Opus found he had some defaults around 16 months before
and some County Court Judgements that were around three years old. Mr H told Opus he
was employed and earned £29,500 and was a tenant. Opus didnt find any active arrears on
Mr Hs credit file or any other recent adverse credit.
Mr H used his credit card and made monthly payments. In September 2018 Opus wrote to
Mr H to say it had decided to increase his credit limit to £1,000 and he contacted it a short
time later to accept. The credit limit went up in October 2018.
Around six months later, Mr H started to miss payments and Opus wrote to him to request
contact. Mr H has told us he sent Opus an email and asked for help. Opus says it has no
record of receiving Mr Hs email or being advised he was experiencing financial difficulties.
In May 2019 Opus sent Mr H a Default Notice and followed it up with confirmation it had
recorded a default with the credit reference agencies in June 2019. Mr Hs account was
closed and subsequently sold to a third party.
Last year, Mr H complained and Opus issued a final response. Opus said it had approved Mr
Hs credit card and credit limit increase in line with its lending policy. But Opus said it had
reviewed his account and accepted the credit limit increase wasnt suitable. As a result,
Opus refunded a total of £224 of interest and charges to Mr Hs credit card debt. Opus
refused to amend Mr Hs credit file to remove the default.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought
Opus should amend Mr Hs credit file as it had lent irresponsibly. Opus didnt agree and
repeated that it had approved the credit limit in line with its lending policy. Opus asked to
appeal, so Mr Hs case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I have reached a different view of his complaint to the
investigator. Whilst I can see Mr H did experience financial difficulties and his credit card
was closed and defaulted, Im not persuaded Opus lent irresponsibly when it approved his
credit card and later increased his credit limit. In addition, I havent found that Opus treated
Mr H unfairly whilst he was in financial difficulties. Ill explain why.
Before a lender offers credit or increases a credit limit it should complete proportionate
checks to ensure maintaining the debt is sustainable for the borrower. Theres no set list of
checks a lender has to complete so Ive looked at the information Opus had to hand when it
considered Mr Hs application and credit limit increase.
In the application, Mr H told Opus he was employed with an income of £29,500. Opus found
Mr H owed around £300 to other unsecured creditors. Opus also noted Mr H had defaults
from around 16 months before his application along with some CCJs that were around three
years old. I can see Mr H had a reasonable amount of adverse credit recorded against him.
But Opus says it considers applications where the adverse information isnt new and that the
application was approved in line with its lending criteria. Im satisfied Opus was aware of the
Mr Hs adverse credit and the dates it was added to his credit file when it considered
whether to lend.
I note that the initial £600 credit limit was reasonably modest. Taking all of the information I
have available into account, Im satisfied Opus did carry out proportionate checks before its
decision to approve Mr Hs credit card. I havent found Opus lent irresponsibly when it
approved Mr Hs credit card application.
Around six months after the application was approved, Opus wrote to Mr H to say it had
decided to increase his credit limit. Ive looked at the checks Opus says it completed. Again,
Opus took Mr Hs income along with the information contained in his application into
account. Mr Hs credit file didnt show a substantial increase in other borrowing, missed
payments or any new adverse credit. The credit limit increase was reasonably modest at an
additional £400. Ive looked at the information Opus had available and Im satisfied it did
complete proportionate checks before it decided to increase Mr Hs credit limit. Im very sorry
to disappoint Mr H, but I havent been persuaded that Opus lent irresponsibly in this case.
Mr H has also told us Opus failed to help him whilst he was experiencing financial difficulties.
I understand Mr H sent Opus an email asking for help, but I can also see that Opus tried to
contact him about his account and arrears on several occasions. Opus has confirmed it has
no record of receiving Mr Hs email and that it received no response to its requests for Mr H
to get in contact about the arrears on his account. As Opus didnt receive a response to its
attempts to contact Mr H and no payments were made after March 2019 I think its decision
to close and default the credit card was fair.
Mr H says he didnt receive any of the arrears letters or default notices from Opus. Mr H told
our investigator in June 2018 he moved from the address Opus had for him but didnt update
the business. I can see Opus wrote to Mr H at the address it had on file and I think it
couldve reasonably been expected to be given his new address when he moved. I also note
that Opus wrote to Mr H in September 2018 with the credit limit increase letter and he then
contacted it to confirm he wanted to accept. So it does appear some post that was sent by
Opus was received by Mr H. Overall, Im satisfied Opus sent arrears and default letters to
the address Mr H gave as required.
Opus looked at Mr Hs credit card and found the credit limit increase wasnt suitable so
refunded interest and charges he paid. Im pleased Opus took that step and has used the
refund to reduce Mr Hs debt. But Opus has told us the decision to apply the refund was
made on the information that became available after it had already increased Mr Hs credit
limit, not before. And I agree that the information available to Opus when considering Mr Hs
application and the credit limit increase indicated he was able to sustainably make
payments.I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr H but I havent found it lent
irresponsibly in this case or that it failed to treat him fairly while he was experiencing financial
difficulties. Based on the available information, Im satisfied Opus has dealt with Mr Hs
complaint fairly, so Im not telling it to take any further action or increase the award.
I asked Mr H and Opus to respond with any new information they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision. We didnt hear back from Mr H and Opus responded to say 
it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has sent me new information to consider I see no reason to change the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I remain of the view that Opus dealt with 
Mr Hs complaint fairly, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman