DRN-3568870
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained about a mortgage they held with Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax. The complaint encompasses various issues, but at its heart it relates to 
the repossession and sale of the property in 2020.
Mr and Mrs E say the security should just have been one title (which was the property with a 
garden), whereas Halifax took possession of an adjacent parcel of land (of a few acres) 
which had a separate title and they say shouldnt have been included in the mortgage.
Theyre also unhappy about the sale price that was achieved versus what the property had 
previously been valued at.
What Ive decided  and why
I issued a provisional decision in August 2022, the findings of which said:
The adjacent land
Mr and Mrs E have said that they only intended to charge the property (with garden) to 
Halifax, not the adjacent land. Theyve said the title numbers were handwritten on the deed 
after theyd signed it.
Unfortunately because this happened so long ago there is limited information available to 
show what happened and why.
Having gone through the full history of this mortgage, it is unfortunate Mr and Mrs E didnt 
flag this up as a concern sooner as there may have been more information available back 
then. There were plenty of opportunities for this to have been raised, such as:
The 2007 mortgage application form declared there were 2 acres of land.
The 2007 mortgage valuation  which would have been provided to Mr and Mrs E  
said with land believed to extend in total to approx 2.25 acres.
Mr and Mrs E have said that is far more than the size of the garden, but less than the 
adjacent land. It is unfortunate that Mr and Mrs E didnt query this at the time as then things 
could have been looked into, rather than now  some 13 years later  after the land has 
been taken into possession and sold.
In any event, the court granted an Order for Possession (suspended) in September 2014 
and that order said:
The court orders that
1. The defendant give the claimant possession of [the mortgaged property] Title 
numbers [both title numbers listed] on or before 06 November 2014.
Both title numbers were listed  that is the one for the property, and the other for the 
adjacent land.
I cant overrule or interfere with a decision made by a court so Im unable to comment on 
whether or not it was fair for Halifax to also have a charge over the adjacent land as the 
court has already ruled that possession could be sought for both titles.
If Mr and Mrs E didnt agree with that then they needed to appeal against it at the time the 
order was made with the court concerned. I simply cant interfere with a court order, and 
Ive no power to overrule it. The court ordered Halifax could take possession of both the 
property and the adjacent land, so there is nothing further I can do or say in respect of that.
Im sorry this wasnt explained to Mr and Mrs E earlier, as I know this forms a large part of 
their complaint. But I simply have no power to interfere with that court order.
The repossession and sale
When selling a property in possession, Halifax is required to get independent valuations 
and use them as a guide when marketing the property. Thats what it did. It relied on the 
opinions of qualified professionals who gave valuation figures and comments. I dont think 
it did anything wrong here.
Halifax doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a 
surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a 
requirement that was fulfilled by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS).
The valuation report and marketing opinion of the property noted there were various other 
issues that would negatively impact on its saleability and value. They noted:
Solid brick construction unlikely to conform to building regulations.
Property requires renovation and repair
Penetrating dampness, Rising dampness, wood boring beetle and structural 
movement.
The property requires renovation and repairs this will affect saleability. The 
extensions to the property appear not to have conformed to building regulations at 
the time of construction and structural movement was identified this is likely to 
affect saleability.
Property needs extensive renovation
A lender in possession should get the best price it can. But it shouldnt hold out too long for 
an unrealistically high price while the debt continues to increase. That isnt always an easy 
balance to strike, but I dont think Halifax got it wrong in this case. Having considered 
everything I dont agree that Halifax sold the property for less than it was worth, nor do I 
think it held onto it for longer than it should to try to achieve that price.
There was limited interest and seven offers were made of between £230,000 and 
£250,000. A property is only worth what a person is willing to pay for it, and the best offer 
Halifax received was for £262,000 which completed. Whilst Mr and Mrs E may feel that 
was less than it was worth, the potential buyers didnt agree otherwise there would have 
been higher offers.
Mr and Mrs E had been trying to sell the property themselves for some time without 
success. The contact notes indicate:The property went on the market in October 2018 at £440,000.
In April 2019 it was still on the market for £440,000 and that included the adjacent 
land, but whilst there had been some interest there hadnt been any offers. At that 
time it was noted that Mr and Mrs E were considering reducing the asking price. 
In May 2019 Mr and Mrs E dropped the asking price by £90,000 down to £350,000. 
They said that the price still seemed to be the issue so they would discuss that with 
the estate agents, and they also enquired about splitting the title so the house could 
be sold without the adjacent land.
Later in May 2019 it was noted there was an interested party but they werent willing 
to pay £350,000 and Mr and Mrs E didnt know what they wanted to pay.
Having considered everything I dont think Halifax got its timing or pricing wrong here. It 
held off taking action to allow Mr and Mrs E time to resolve things and either be able to 
make the monthly payments, or to sell the property. But as no progress seemed to be 
being made on the sale, and payments werent being made to the mortgage, Halifax 
decided not to wait any longer, and that seems to be a reasonable decision for it to have 
made at the time.
Mr and Mrs E have said that Halifax shouldnt have sold the property during Covid as it 
meant a lower price was achieved. The marketing valuations were undertaken and the 
property was put on the market before the first Covid lockdown. Lockdown restrictions were 
eased from June 2020, and on 8 July 2020 a temporary reduction in Stamp Duty Land Tax 
came into force, and the housing market picked up. The property sold for more than it had 
been valued at  by two independent professionals  pre-Covid so I dont think Covid 
caused
an artificially low sale price such that Halifax ought reasonably to have waited to sell the 
property.
It is important to keep in mind here that Mr and Mrs E hadnt made any payments to the 
mortgage in over two years, and every month additional interest of around £1,000 was 
being added to the mortgage debt. Waiting may have achieved a higher sales price, but 
definitely would have meant an increased debt.
In 2007 the application form for the mortgage put the property value at £460,000, which 
was down valued to £400,000 by the surveyor. The 2007 survey was carried out by a 
member of RICS, and as Ive explained above Halifax was entitled to rely on that 
professional opinion. Just because the property later sold for less doesnt mean either 
valuation was wrong. We had the global financial crisis in 2008 which led to property prices 
falling substantially, and it was clear from the reports that were undertaken in 2020 that 
there were some issues with this property that would have impacted on its value, and its 
saleability. I cant comment on what happened with the buyers of the property as Halifax 
was entitled to rely upon the professional reports it received, and those indicated this was a 
property that was in a poor condition with potentially some serious defects that needed 
further investigation.
Having considered everything, whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr and 
Mrs E found themselves in, Im satisfied Halifax didnt act inappropriately and so I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Halifax said it had no further submissions to make. Despite Mr and Mrs E confirming they 
were aware of the deadline (which has now passed), we havent received any further 
submissions from them.Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having considered the whole file afresh, including Mr and Mrs Es 
emails about the property being back on the market, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman