DRN-2559355
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos registered 
a default on his credit file and passed his account to a debt collection agency.
 
What happened
In November 2018 Mr L opened a credit account with Argos and purchased some items on 
Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL). 
Argos didnt receive payment when the BNPL ended. It recorded missed payments and 
issue a default notice.
Mr L complained to Argos. In response, Argos said that because Mr L hadnt made any 
payments to the account, it had fallen into arrears. Argos said it has written to Mr L asking 
him to bring the account up to date but had received no response and that it had defaulted 
the account because of the arrears.
Mr L wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that because Mr L hadnt made 
payment to the account, Argos acted fairly in registering the default.
Mr L didnt agree. He said hed contacted Argos before hed missed the payments and said 
he would provide evidence of this.
Mr L has had extra time to provide this evidence, but he hasnt done so. So, Ive been asked 
to make a final decision based on the available information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the account history. I can see that Mr L had two BNPL plans. The first expired 
in December 2019 and the second expired in January 2020. The terms and conditions of the 
account say the account must be paid in full by the time the BNPL period ends, or the 
balance will be moved onto a normal plan to which interest will be added an in respect of 
which minimum payments must be made each month.
Ive looked at the account statements, but I cant see that Mr L made any payments. I can 
see that Argos sent monthly statements to Mr L advising him of the arrears on the account 
and explaining what he needed to do to bring the account up to date.
The ICO guidance says that when an account is 3 months in arrears, a default can be 
registered. Based on what Ive seen, Mr Ls account was more than 3 months in arrears, so I 
dont think Argos acted unfairly by registering a default. 
I can see that the debt was passed to a  debt recovery agency after the default was 
registered. I appreciate that Mr L is unhappy about the default and has found it upsetting to 
receive letters from the debt recovery company. However, based on what Ive seen, I dont 
think Argos has acted unfairly here. It kept Mr L updated about his account and registered 
the default once the account had gone past 3 months in arrears in accordance with ICO 
guidance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman