DRN-3326094
The complaint
Ms C complained because Starling Bank Limited refused to refund her for a cash machine
withdrawal, when she said the machine didnt dispense her money.
What happened
On 1 March 2021, Ms C used a cash machine abroad. She initially tried to withdraw €400.
This was declined, and Ms C realised this was more than her daily limit. So she tried again
for €300. An error message appeared on the screen for a few seconds, and her card was
exited, without providing either cash or a receipt. Ms C tried again several more times, with
the same result. The machine whirred, but didnt dispense any money, and exited Ms Cs
card.
Ms C went straight back to her hotel and rang Starling. She explained what had happened,
and Starling said that €300 was shown as a pending withdrawal on her account. Starling told
Ms C to wait five days, and the transaction would be reversed. If it wasnt, she should ring
again and Starling would investigate.
The money was debited from Ms Cs account, so she rang again on 8 March to complain.
Starling raised a chargeback on 12 March, issuing Ms C with a temporary refund in line with
normal practice.
But on 11 April Starling notified Ms C that the chargeback had been disputed by the other
side. The cash machine operator had said the cash had been dispensed. Starling re-debited
the disputed €300, and told Ms C that if she wanted to continue her dispute, shed have to
contact the cash machine firm direct.
Ms C tried many times to contact the cash machine operator abroad. She rang on seven
dates in April, getting a different person every time, with mixed and confusing information.
But they told her the way to pursue it was through Starling. On 30 April, the call handler told
Ms C that there was more detailed information available. It said that it had originally only
sent Starling snapshots of the transaction, but it also had more detailed information
available, which included the cash counting of the machine, and whether or not there was a
€300 surplus on the machine that day, which could indicate that the money hadnt been
dispensed. The call handler told Ms C that this could only be requested by Starling.
So Ms C asked Starling to request this. Starling refused on 4 May, saying:
With regret the merchant provided evidence in line within the [card] guidelines , so were
unable to dispute this matter further. The Chargeback guidelines does not give us scope to 
request additional information beyond that outlined. The chargeback has now has regrettably
expired, and as such we are limited with how we can assist further.
Ms C rang a number of times and was promised call backs which didnt happen. On 6 May
Starling repeated its previous message that it couldnt help.
In its final response letter to Ms Cs complaint, Starling said although its previous reply was
correct in saying that the chargeback had expired, that wasnt why they were holding Ms C
liable. It said the reason was that the chargeback had been successfully contested because
the card operator had provided the machine logs.
Ms C wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She set out what had happened,
including that the machine operator abroad had told her there was more information
available. So Starling could help, but wasnt willing to, on the basis it was too late. She didnt
understand this when she had phoned, texted, chatted and written to Starling often, as well
as having contacted the operator abroad. Ms C said that shed waited at the machine, and
the money had just not been dispensed. And the operator was offering to help, so she didnt
understand why Starling was saying it couldnt help.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint. She said the machine report confirmed that
€300 had been taken, so she didnt think the money had been stuck in the machine. She
said other card holders had used the machine before and after Ms C without any issues,
which suggested there werent any problems with the cash machine. She could understand
why Ms C had asked whether the machine had balanced, but said it wasnt known whether
or not there had been a surplus. And even if there had been, it might not have been Ms Cs
money. The investigator said that for Starling to have challenged the chargeback further, it
would have had to have had evidence the money hadnt been dispensed.
Ms C didnt agree. She said it couldnt possibly be a fair outcome when shed lost her
money. She said the law might be on the side of Starling and/or the machine operator, but if 
it had been fully and correctly investigated, she should have been vindicated months earlier.
Ms C also disagreed with the investigators comment about machine users before and after
her. She said that shed been the person whod attempted the subsequent withdrawals,
using different cards, all of which had failed (without debiting her other accounts). So Ms C
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations about disputed transactions
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for
disputed transactions taking place in March 2021 are the Payment Services Regulations
2017. These say that the first step is for the payment service provider (here, Starling) must
show the transaction was authenticated. Section 75 (1) (b) of the regulations says its for the
payment service provider to prove that the transaction:
was authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts
and not affected by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency in the service provided
by the payment service provider. 
A Payment Service Provider can choose how it satisfies that requirement, and here, Starling
chose to use a chargeback to deal with the dispute and obtain information. But if a chosen
mechanism doesnt provide enough information to satisfy the requirements of the Payment
Services Regulations, a Payment Service Provider can still try other methods to help their
customer and satisfy their obligations under the regulations Ive mentioned here.
I looked at the information which Starling provided about the cash machine withdrawal.
It was minimal, and didnt, for example, show that the machine wasnt affected by technical
issues or deficiencies. Nor did it show whether or not the machine balanced, or whether
there was any cash left in the machine (the purge bin) at the end of the day. Nor did itshow sufficient transactions before or after Ms Cs transaction for this to demonstrate
whether others had a similar problem. So, on technical grounds, Starling failed to fulfil its
responsibilities under the Payment Services Regulations.
Did Starling treat Ms C fairly?
In looking at what was fair in all the circumstances of this case, I also considered Starling 
didnt try to help its customer as much as it could have here. After Starling received the
chargeback refusal which didnt give enough information, it didnt try and help Ms C any
further, telling her shed have to contact the machine operator abroad herself.
Ms C made a lot of effort to get answers and a satisfactory outcome from the machine
operator abroad  she told us she rang abroad seven times during April. I thought it was  
unlikely shed have bothered to chase the machine operator abroad if she hadnt had a 
genuine case. And Ms C might not have had to do this, with all the frustration, 
inconvenience, and costs which this caused her, if Starling had made a reasonable attempt 
to help its customer.
Starling also gave Ms C conflicting reasons for its refusal to help. One was that the
chargeback had expired which wouldnt make sense to a customer whod been constantly
chasing. The other was that the chargeback had been successfully defended, though as Ive 
set out above, a chargeback wasnt enough to satisfy Starlings responsibilities under the
regulations. It wasnt helpful that Starling gave two conflicting reasons.
Starling continued to be unhelpful even after Ms C reported back that the machine operator
had told her that it had more information available  if only Starling were to request it.
Ms C had done everything shed been told to by Starling (even though it was the wrong
advice) and had reached a dead end.
So I considered Starling didnt treat Ms C fairly. It didnt continue with the full investigation 
into the matters which were firmly its responsibility under the regulations, and it failed to 
meet the requirements under the regulations. It also expected its customer to struggle alone 
with a machine operator abroad, which wasnt fair and caused her frustration, inconvenience 
and cost. So my provisional decision was that I intended to order Starling Bank Limited to 
pay Ms C:
-            €300 to reimburse the disputed cash withdrawal. This should be refunded at 
the exchange rate at which it was debited, ie £261.94; and
     - £150 compensation for the frustration, costs, and inconvenience Ms C 
suffered as a result of the unfair way in which Starling treated her.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms C didnt have anything more to add. She said she awaited the final outcome which 
hopefully would see the end of the difficult experience shed had.
Starling accepted the provisional decision in Ms Cs case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having reconsidered the evidence and the responses to my provisional decision, I consider 
my original decision was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I order Starling Bank Limited to pay Ms 
C:
- €300 to reimburse the disputed cash withdrawal. This should be refunded at the
exchange rate at which it was debited, ie £261.94; and
- £150 compensation for the frustration, costs, and inconvenience Ms C suffered as a
result of the unfair way in which Starling treated her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman