DRN-3763666
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) UK Plc closed his bank 
account and wont return money that was paid into the account to him. He also complains 
that Halifax registered a CIFAS marker against him. CIFAS is the UKs fraud alert service.
What happened
Mr A had an account with Halifax. Between 14 and 16 December 2021, three payments 
were made into Mr As account  one for £15,000 and two for £6,800. Mr A transferred a 
large portion of the funds to another account held with a different bank.
Following this, in January 2022, Halifax were notified by another bank that their customer, 
who I will refer to as Mr B, had been the victim of a scam and that the three payments Mr A 
had received in December 2021, were fraudulent. 
Halifax took the view that it needed to look into the payments and how Mr A was operating 
his account. So, it blocked Mr As account and contacted him to ask him some questions 
about the payments hed received from Mr B. Mr A told Halifax that he had sold a property 
overseas and the payments had been arranged by a money transfer agent hed previously 
used, who I will refer to as Mr H. Mr A said he didnt know Mr B and wasnt aware that the 
money used to pay him was fraudulent.
Halifax spoke to Mr A again about the payments and told him that it was going to return the 
remaining fraudulent funds back to the sending bank. Mr A told Halifax that hed spoken to 
Mr H who told him that hed arranged the payments to be made to him via Mr B as Mr Hs 
business wasnt doing very well and he was struggling for funds. So, hed reached out to 
contacts he had in the UK to get Mr As money to him, which is why hed received the 
payments from Mr B. Mr A provided copies of paperwork relating to the sale of his property 
to Halifax. This included deeds in Mr As name for land, a sales contract showing Mr A had 
sold a property for $90,000 overseas, and a headed letter from Mr H which said hed used 
his business partner in the UK, Mr B, to make a payment of $40,000 to Mr A.
Halifax reviewed the paperwork Mr A provided, but said it wasnt sufficient to show he was 
entitled to the money in his account. So, it didnt release the money to him and retuned the 
remaining fraudulent funds back to the sending bank. Following this the bank decided to 
close Mr As account. It also placed a fraud marker against Mr As name with CIFAS. And 
suggested Mr A should contact Mr B to get the fraud claim withdrawn.
Mr A complained to Halifax. He said he hadnt known the money paid into his account was 
fraudulent and said he hadnt done anything wrong. Halifax looked into Mr As complaint but 
didnt uphold it. The bank said theyd applied the terms and conditions of his account fairly 
when carrying out the closure. And hadnt done anything wrong when it returned the funds to 
source. Halifax also said theyd fairly loaded a CIFAS marker against him. Unhappy with this 
response Mr A brought his complaint to this service where one of our investigators looked 
into things. 
The investigator asked Mr A some more questions regarding the payments made into his 
account, the sale of his property and his relationship with Mr H. She asked Mr A where the 
outstanding balance of $45,000 had been paid and whether he had any evidence to show 
the money being paid to Mr H from the buyer of the land and then onto Mr B. 
In response, Mr A said he didnt see why that information was relevant. He told the 
investigator that he had travelled overseas and sent the remaining balance from the sale of 
his property directly to the university based in the USA to pay for his sons education. He 
explained that he had taken this action because of what had happened with his account in 
the UK and wanted to avoid any further problems. The investigator asked him to provide 
evidence of this and other evidence regarding his communications with Mr H. Mr A said he 
would provide everything. But he didnt.
In a subsequent email, Mr A told the investigator that he had arranged for a relative to take 
$5,000 USD to the USA to pay for his sons education and that the rest of the money was in 
his safe overseas.  Mr A also said that he had tried to contact Mr B to discuss what had 
happened, but Mr B wasnt taking his calls or answering any messages he sent to him via 
WhatsApp. But Mr A didnt provide any further evidence to support this.
Based on the evidence, the investigator said that Halifax hadnt done anything wrong when it 
reviewed and closed Mr As account. And she said it had done so in line with the account 
terms and relevant regulations. She didnt think Halifax had treated Mr A unfairly when it 
decided not to release the money and recorded a CIFAS marker against Mr A. 
Mr A didnt accept the investigators view. He said hed provided all he could about the 
payments into his account. He maintained that he didnt know Mr B and had no idea that the 
funds paid into his account were fraudulent. He said Mr B should withdraw his allegation of 
fraud as the money sent to him was rightfully his. He maintained that he had done nothing 
wrong and had simply sold a property to finance his sons education. Mr A wants the CIFAS 
marker removed, and the money sent back to source retuned to him.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first with the banks decision to close Mr As account. Its generally for banks to 
decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Having looked at all the information available to me, including Halifaxs actions and the 
information its provided Im satisfied that their reasons for closing Mr As account sit within 
their commercial freedom. Im also satisfied that Halifax acted in line with the account terms 
and relevant regulations when it decided to close Mr As account. So, I cant say Halifax has 
done anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly when it closed his account. 
Ill then turn to Halifaxs decision to return the money paid into Mr As account back to source 
and record a CIFAS marker against Mr As name.  Before placing a fraud marker against 
Mr As name, Halifax needed to have a reasonable belief that a financial crime had been 
committed and that the evidence was such that the matter could be reported to the police. A 
suspicion or concern isnt enough. What this means in practice is that Halifax must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Mr As account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied that the funds paid into Mr As account were 
fraudulent  in the sense that the holder of the account from which they were drawn didnt 
authorise the payments. Their own bank investigated them before reaching that conclusion 
and contacting Halifax. Of itself however, that doesnt mean that Mr A was involved. 
So, I need to decide whether Halifax had sufficient evidence to meet the standard of proof 
and load a marker against Mr A. 
Mr A told Halifax and the investigator he didnt know that the payments, amounting to just 
under £30,000 were fraudulent. He has suggested that hed been the victim of fraud and 
says everything was arranged by Mr H. He says that he sold a property overseas and the 
money was payment for the sale of land.
Ive considered what Mr A has said about the funds and looked at the paperwork hes 
provided to support his explanation. Ive also considered the information Halifax has 
provided, which includes information it received from the sending bank about the money paid 
into Mr As account by Mr B. Having done so I cant say the bank has treated Mr A unfairly 
when it decided not to release the money to him and recorded a CIFAS marker against him. 
I say this for the following reasons:
Ive seen evidence from Halifax that another bank notified them that the three 
payments paid into Mr As account on 14, 15 and 16 December 2021 were 
fraudulent. And that Mr As account, was used to pass them on  the money was 
transferred out to another account held by Mr A and withdrawn in cash by him soon 
after the payments entered his account
Mr A has changed his explanation regarding the remaining balance for the sale of his 
property ($45,000). When he first spoke to the investigator, he said he had travelled 
overseas and sent the funds himself directly to his sons university in the USA. He 
told the investigator he wasnt happy to provide evidence to support this activity. He 
later provided a different explanation and said he had asked a relative to take $5,000 
to the USA to pay for his sons education and that the remaining balance was in his 
safe overseas. Neither of these explanations are supported by any documentary 
evidence  despite being requested by the investigator. I think this would be 
information Mr A ought to be able to provide especially given the amount of money 
involved and the legal requirements that generally go along with the sale of property. 
Mr A hasnt provided any paperwork or evidence that set out the negotiations or any 
communications that led up to the sale, such as emails between Mr A, the estate 
agent or buyer of the property, which is a normal occurrence when land/property is 
sold.
Mr A has said that the funds from the sale were given to Mr H so that he could 
arrange for the money to be sent to him in the UK. But Ive not seen any evidence 
that this took place. Ive also not seen any evidence of communications between 
Mr B and Mr H arranging to make payments to Mr A. Or anything to suggest Mr B 
and Mr H were long time business partners. Its not clear to me why, if this was a 
legitimate sale, why he wasnt able to provide this information.Ive looked at Mr As bank statements and I cant see any reference to a land sale or 
anything to suggest Mr B was acting as a middleman. In fact, the reference against 
the payments is Hannah. If as Mr A has told us that he was expecting funds into his 
account from Mr H I think it would be reasonable for him to question three payments 
referenced with a womans name, from someone he doesnt know and think that it 
might be a mistake. But I havent seen any evidence that he alerted the bank or that 
Mr A asked Mr H why the payments were referenced in the way they were. Instead 
Mr A moved some of the funds out of his account and made cash withdrawals.
Its also not clear to me why Mr A received three separate payments - one of £15,000 
and two of £6,800, instead of a one-off payment for the full amount to complete the 
transaction. 
Mr A has said that Mr Hs business was struggling which is why he asked Mr B to 
make the payments. But according to Mr A and the paperwork hes provided, Mr H 
had received $40,000 from the sale of his property to send over to him. So, I cant 
see how Mr H was struggling financially because supposedly he had been given 
Mr As money.
I note too from looking at Mr As bank statement that he received a payment of just 
under £3,000 from Mr H on 16 December 2021. So, its not clear why Mr H couldnt 
make all the payments to Mr A and had to use a third-party account.
Ive also not seen any evidence that the deed has been registered with the 
appropriate land registry where the land is situated. Its not been stamped, and it 
doesnt show that the Governors consent has been obtained which is required when 
land is sold in Nigeria.
So overall, Im not persuaded that Mr A has shown he is entitled to the money paid 
into his account in December 2021. And Im satisfied that Halifax didnt do anything 
wrong when it returned the remaining funds to the sending bank. 
In summary, when I weigh everything up, Im not persuaded by Mr As version of events that 
he knows nothing about the fraudulent funds which were paid into his account in December 
2021. For the reasons, Ive explained, Im satisfied that Halifax had grounds to believe that 
Mr A was involved in the dispersal of fraudulently obtained funds based on the evidence it 
had. So, I think it was fair for Halifax to register the CIFAS marker and I wont be asking 
them to remove it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman