DRN-3888790
The complaint
Miss T complains that AWP P&C SA hasnt settled a claim she made on a travel insurance 
policy.
Miss Ts represented by Mr T. But for ease of reading, Ill refer to Miss T throughout.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I havent set these 
out in detail here. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key events.
In January 2022, Miss T was skiing abroad. Unfortunately, she suffered a knee injury. She 
says she initially underwent an x-ray and was referred for physiotherapy treatment. Miss 
says she contacted AWPs medical assistance company to make a claim. 
As the physiotherapy hadnt worked, Miss T sought further medical advice. And at this point, 
she was diagnosed with significant knee injuries. The treating hospital recommended that 
Miss T should undergo urgent surgery.
AWPs medical assistance company didnt agree that Miss T needed urgent surgery. It said 
its doctors considered that Miss T could be repatriated back to the UK for surgery on the 
NHS.
Miss T disagreed. Her treating doctors said that the chances of the surgery being successful 
reduced in line with delays in it being carried out. The treating doctor also said that Miss T 
wasnt fit to fly, as there was a risk of developing a deep vein thrombosis (DVT). Miss T 
underwent surgery abroad and Mr T covered the costs she incurred. Miss T complained 
about the way AWP had handled her claim.
Ultimately, some months later, AWP offered to pay half of Miss Ts claim. While it maintained 
its claims decision had been correct, its offer was made in acknowledgement of the poor 
service Miss T had received.
Miss T made suggested revisions to AWPs offer but had no further response. 
Our investigator asked AWP to provide us with its file of evidence. However, despite 
repeated requests, it didnt do so. On the basis of the evidence we did have, the investigator 
concluded that AWP should pay Miss Ts claim, together with interest, along with £150 
compensation for poor service. She felt that Miss T had followed the treating doctors advice. 
She was satisfied that Miss T hadnt been fit to return to the UK. She didnt think there was 
any evidence to show why AWP had disregarded the treating doctors advice, nor any 
evidence that its decision had been given by someone medically qualified.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators assessment, despite being chased-up. So the 
complaints been passed to me to decide. I must make it clear that in the absence of any 
evidence from AWP, Ive necessarily had to make a decision based on the information Miss 
T has sent us. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think AWP has treated Miss T fairly and Ill explain why.
Im aware that AWP did make an offer to settle this complaint and as Ive explained, Miss T 
made suggested revisions to this offer. In my view, this doesnt constitute a binding 
acceptance of a settlement agreement, as Miss Ts revisions are more akin to a counteroffer. 
Nor is there any evidence that AWP has taken any further action since its offer was made 
some months ago. On this basis, Im satisfied its appropriate for me to consider the merits of 
this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Miss Ts policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether AWP 
treated her fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Miss Ts 
contract with AWP. As Miss T made a medical expenses claim, I think it was appropriate for 
AWP to consider the claim under Section A  emergency medical expenses. This says that, 
alongside other costs, AWP will pay for normal and receipted expenses of emergency 
medical or surgical treatment incurred outside of a policyholders home country.
The policy says:
Please tell us immediately about any serious Illness or accident abroad where you have to 
go into hospital or you may have to return home early or extend your stay because of any 
illness or injury.
Section A says: The insurer reserves the right to repatriate you to your home country when 
in the opinion of the medical emergency assistance service you are fit to travel.
This section of the policy also specifically excludes the following:
Any form of treatment or surgery which in the opinion of the doctor in attendance and the 
medical emergency assistance service can be reasonably delayed until you return to your 
home country.
Any medical treatment and associated costs you have to pay following your refusal of 
curtailment, or your decision not to move hospital or return to your home country after the 
date when, in the opinion of the medical emergency assistance service, you should have 
done so.
AWP suggested, in its final response, that Miss T didnt contact its emergency assistance 
team immediately following her injury. Miss T says that she did contact AWP to open a case. 
In the absence of any medical assistance team notes or call recordings, I cant be certain 
what happened. I find Miss Ts testimony on this point persuasive though. And even if I 
accept that Miss T didnt contact AWP immediately, this wouldnt necessarily mean that it 
would be fair or reasonable for AWP to decline cover for this reason alone.
What is clear is that once the treating doctor had confirmed Miss T had suffered more 
serious injuries and would require surgery, Miss T did contact AWP. It declined to cover the 
cost of surgery abroad, because it said Miss T could safely be repatriated for surgery on the NHS. As Ive set out above, there is very little evidence from AWP as to how it arrived at this 
conclusion: what information it reviewed; how much weight it gave to the medical reports 
sent by Miss Ts treating doctor; or what, if any, medical professionals were involved in its 
decision-making. 
On the other hand, Miss T has provided us with a copy of the medical report, dated 1 
February 2022, from her treating doctor. This says:
Proposed Surgery: urgent left ACL reconstruction with left hamstring autograft (meniscal 
repair, possible meniscal root repair)
Ideally this surgery will be done within 7-10 days.
The chance of successful repair decreases with increased delay between injury and 
surgery. (My emphasis added).
On 3 February 2022, the treating doctor added:
It is recommended that (Miss T) proceed with surgery within 7-10 days from February 1st. 
The risk of flying is the risk of developing deep vein thrombosis (DVT).
It is recommended that (Miss T) proceeds with surgery here.
In my view then, the available medical evidence, provided by an orthopaedic specialist 
expert in their field, who was responsible for Miss Ts care and whod had the chance to 
examine her, shows that Miss T required urgent surgery, within a reasonably short-time 
frame. And that there was a risk of flying, due to the risk of developing DVT. The evidence 
also demonstrates that the longer the delay between the date of injury and the surgery, the 
less likely it was that the surgery would be successful.
Theres simply no medical evidence to support how AWP concluded that Miss Ts surgery 
could be delayed until she returned to the UK (where it would have no control over NHS 
scheduling for the surgery). Given well-publicised NHS waiting times, it isnt at all clear that 
Miss T wouldve been able to undergo surgery on the NHS within 7-10 days of her first 
appointment with the specialist abroad. Theres also no evidence of the reasons why AWP 
discounted Miss Ts treating doctors opinion, nor why it concluded she was fit to fly when 
the treating doctor expressly referred to the risk of her doing so. 
As such then, I think that Miss T took a reasonable and understandable course of action 
when she relied on the advice from her treating doctor and proceeded with the surgery. I 
dont think that AWP has shown it was fair or reasonable for it to decline to cover Miss Ts 
medical costs at the outset, or that its limited to only partially settling them now. And I dont 
think its shown that it was entitled to rely on the policy exclusions it referred to when it 
initially turned down Miss Ts claim.
Given the above, I find that the fair and reasonable outcome to Miss Ts complaint is for 
AWP to now accept and settle her medical expenses claim in full, in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. It must also add interest to the settlement at an annual rate of 8% 
simple, from the date of claim until the date of settlement.
It's clear too that AWP hasnt handled the claim as well as it shouldve done. There were 
long delays in responding to Miss Ts questions and correspondence, which I dont think 
have been reasonably explained. I think these delays added to Miss Ts trouble and upset at 
a time when she was already undergoing, and subsequently recovering from, painful 
surgery. So I agree that AWP must also pay Miss T compensation of £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience its handling of the claim has caused her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct AWP P&C SA to accept and settle Miss Ts medical expenses claim in full, in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It must add interest to the settlement 
at an annual rate of 8% simple, from the date of claim until the date of settlement.*
I also direct AWP to pay Miss T £150 compensation.
*If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest it should tell Miss T how much it has taken off. It should also give Miss T a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman