DRN-3370157
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited, trading as Legal and General, 
(Fairmead) failed to help them to understand the extent of cover their policy provided. They 
felt that the terms and conditions of the policy were ambiguous and therefore needed 
confirmation that the policy would provide cover in the event of a flood. As the confirmation 
they needed couldnt be provided, Mr and Mrs T feel that the policy was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T had home insurance with Fairmead from February 2020. This provided them 
with buildings and contents cover against various insured perils. I understand that they are 
no longer insured with Fairmead. 
In October 2021, Mr and Mrs T contacted Fairmead to make a claim for damage to a roof. 
Fairmead said the claim wasnt covered under the policy. So Mr and Mrs T decided to check 
the policy wording for flood cover. Mr and Mrs T said they live in a flood zone. But haven't 
been flooded yet. But they wanted to check that if there was a flood, they would be covered 
under their home insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs T spoke to Fairmead about the flood cover on their policy during a conversation 
about the failed claim. Fairmead told him that flood was an insured event. But that they 
would always have to complete a claim form to confirm cover because of any exclusions on 
the policy. Fairmead couldnt definitively tell Mr and Mrs T that any future flood claim would 
be covered. Mr and Mrs T were concerned by this response. So Fairmead arranged for them 
to receive a policy booklet so they could see what the policy covered. 
Having reviewed the policy booklet, Mr and Mrs T felt that the policys terms and conditions 
were ambiguous about whether a flood would be covered or not under the policy. 
So Mr and Mrs T wrote to Fairmead to ask them to clarify under what circumstances their 
property would be covered if there was a flood. 
Fairmead didnt respond. So Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint to this service. They said 
that when they took the policy out 18 months before, they were verbally assured that they 
would be covered for flood damage.
Fairmead did then issue their final response to Mr and Mrs Ts complaint on 16 November 
2021. They didnt uphold it. They apologised for not answering their questions fully. And said 
that they understood that they wanted to know whether the policy covered them for flood 
damage. They confirmed the following from pages 14 and 15 of Mr and Mrs Ts policy 
booklet:
Section 1 - Buildings cover, Part 1 - Buildings
We will pay up to the sum insured shown on your policy schedule unless we specify 
otherwise 
5 Flood
We will not pay for
Loss or damage to fences, gates and hedges 
Loss or damage caused by underground water
And noted that as with any claim for loss or damage, they would need to consider any future 
claim for flood damage under the wider terms and conditions of the policy.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs T told Fairmead that their policy document stated at one point that 
they were covered for damage caused by a flood, but a few pages further later stated that 
they werent covered for damage by water entering the building. They felt this was 
contradictory and misleading. They brought their complaint to this service. They said that 
Fairmeads response had left them still doubting whether or not they were covered by their 
policy for any damage caused by flooding. They asked this service to help them to find out 
the facts. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr and Mrs Ts 
policy did provide cover for flood. But that there were exclusions on the policy, so it didnt 
cover everything. She said that if Mr and Mrs Ts property was damaged as a result of a 
flood, Fairmead would validate the claim based on the terms and conditions and check if any 
exclusions that may apply. And at this point they would either accept or decline the claim. 
Our investigator also considered whether the policy had been mis-sold. But she didnt 
consider that shed seen any evidence that it had been.
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with our investigator. They said the policy document had been 
contradictory. And asked what the distinction was between damage from a flood and 
damage from water entering a property. They didnt feel there should be any difference.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Mr and Mrs Ts complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Most residential and commercial buildings and contents insurance policies include flood 
cover as standard. This is designed to cover circumstances where water has entered and 
built up in a property, causing damage to contents, decorations or the building itself. 
Most insurance policies wont define what a flood is. This is the case with Mr and Mrs Ts 
policy. So when a policyholder makes a claim, such insurers must decide whether or not a 
flood occurred, in the particular circumstances of the claim. Insurers must base their 
decisions on the terms and conditions of the policy in question. And will allow for any 
exclusions that apply when making their decision. 
Mr and Mrs Ts policy documents stated the following:
Cover youve selectedBuildings (and, separately, the same wording under Contents):
.This will cover you against events such as fire, storm, flood, theft, escape of water.
But after reading the policy booklet, Mr and Mrs T felt that although they were covered for 
flood under their buildings insurance, they werent covered for:
Loss or damage caused by underground water
And they also noted that section 16. Accidental damage said that the cover excluded 
Damage caused by water entering the buildings. They felt that this meant that they werent 
covered for any damage by what Fairmead might consider a flood. They felt flood usually 
meant water entering from an external source.
So they asked Fairmead to confirm what insurance they did have against flood. And they 
asked them to define the word. 
Mr and Mrs T raised similar questions about the wording in the policy document about their 
Contents insurance. They wanted a detailed, clear explanation. They said theyd been 
assured when they took out the policy that they would be covered for damage to buildings 
and contents by any flood. 
Regarding the exclusion to the Buildings cover for Loss or damage caused by underground 
water, I can confirm that this is a common exclusion under home insurance policies. Many 
insurers wont cover loss or damage caused by rising groundwater levels. 
Regarding the Accidental Damage cover, Mr and Mrs T have said that they dont think there 
should be any difference between damage from a flood and damage from water entering a 
property. I agree that these are practically the same thing. But I can see that our investigator 
has already noted that if Mr and Mrs Ts property suddenly had water entering their building 
as a result of accidental damage, Fairmead may rely on the exclusion under the policy not to 
cover damage from water entering from an external source. This exclusion applies only 
under the accidental damage part of the policy. I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs Ts main 
concern was that as they live in a flood zone, they wanted to be sure of flood cover. But Im 
satisfied that the policy only excludes damage from water entering from an external source 
under the accidental damage section of the policy. And I consider that this is a reasonable 
and clearly worded exclusion.
Ive carefully considered what Mr and Mrs T have said. But Im afraid I dont agree that 
Fairmead have been ambiguous or that the policy document is unclear. I say this because 
Fairmead have explained that they would need to consider any claim for flood damage under 
the wider terms and conditions of the policy. This would include allowing for any exclusions 
that might apply, as I mentioned above. Without knowing the circumstances of a future flood 
claim, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask them to cover all claims for flood damage. 
Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs T said they were told when they took out the policy. 
Im not persuaded that they were told their policy would cover them for any flood, for the 
reasons Ive already described. But I am satisfied that it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs T to 
be assured that their policy had flood cover. It did have flood cover. And if Mr and Mrs T had 
made a claim for flood damage, Im satisfied that Fairmead wouldve covered the claim if the 
claim could be validated against the terms and conditions, and if no exclusions applied. 
I acknowledge that Fairmeads answer to Mr and Mrs Ts questions, and my decision here, 
will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs T. I know theyve now purchased a different home 
insurance policy. And that the premiums are higher. Mr and Mrs T consider that this is because theyve included flood cover. But I cant say that this means that their policy with 
Fairmead was mis-sold. The policy with Fairmead did have flood cover. 
I do understand why Mr and Mrs T want to be certain that they are covered under all 
circumstances if their property sustains flood damage. But I dont consider that any 
insurance company can reasonably be asked to provide such confirmation. Therefore it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask Fairmead to do anything here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman