DRN-3462509
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2001.
What happened
Mr C took out the policy at the same time as arranging the mortgage, which went live when 
the mortgage went live in May 2001. Although it was a joint mortgage, the policy was set up 
just to cover Mr C for accident, sickness and unemployment. The PPI was free for six 
months, after which time Mr C rang BoS to arrange a continuation of the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen the letters that BoS sent to Mr C alerting him to the end of the six-month free 
period. The letters make it clear that the policy will end unless Mr C makes contact to extend 
it. Therefore, Mr C would have known that he had a choice about buying the PPI. It appears 
that Mr C had an interest in continuing to protect the mortgage repayments and so rang BoS 
to discuss it.
BoS advised Mr C to buy the PPI. Therefore, in recommending it to him, it needed to ensure 
that it met his needs. And from what I know of his and his wifes circumstances at the time, 
the policy was suitable for Mr C.
Mr C has said he would have received over 12 months sick pay. However, looking at the 
evidence he has provided, very little of that would have been at full pay. He would have 
dropped to 80% of his salary after 6 weeks and then down to 50% of his salary in just over 
13 weeks. Also, the level of sick pay was discretionary and not enshrined in Mr Cs 
employment contract. I appreciate what Mr C has said about the seniority of his role likely 
meaning that he would receive enhanced sick benefits. However, the sick pay he would 
have received would have depended on other prevailing factors that the company directors 
would have also taken into account, such as the prevalence of long-term sickness and the 
general health of the company. On balance, Im not persuaded that Mr Cs sickness benefits 
made the PPI an unsuitable recommendation.
Mr C would have received redundancy pay. But the policy would have paid out in addition to 
any redundancy pay. This would have allowed him to retain his other means or use them to 
cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
Mr C has highlighted that the PPI would not pay out for any period where someone was 
being given pay in lieu of notice (PILON). Mr Cs notice period was 3 months. However, I 
havent seen any evidence that Mr C wouldnt have been asked to work his 3 months notice, 
so theres no guarantee that he would have received PILON. The policy provides cover if 
someone loses their income due to unemployment. As someone is still technically employed 
and still being paid during a PILON period, it makes sense that the PPI wouldnt pay out until 
that period had ended and someone was genuinely without income. Mr C says it is very 
likely that hed have been able to get a new job before the policy would have started paying 
out. But the nature of insurance is that it provides cover for unexpected events and there 
was no certainty that Mr C would have secured a new job straight away.
Mr C says the mortgage was initially on a discounted rate for six months and therefore the 
benefit of £653 would have been insufficient to cover the mortgage after that time. However, 
at the point that the PPI was sold, it was providing the correct amount of cover. Given the 
time that has elapsed, theres no information available to show whether the PPI premium 
increased at the point that Mr Cs monthly mortgage repayment increased.
Overall, I dont consider that there is anything about Mr Cs and his wifes circumstances that 
made the policy an unsuitable recommendation.
BoS also had to provide Mr C with sufficient information for him to make an informed choice 
about whether or not the policy was right for him.
I think that Mr C would have known something about the policy  that it would cover the 
mortgage repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  
because I doubt he would have bought the PPI without knowing anything at all about it. 
Mr C says he wasnt told about exclusions and limitations relating to pre-existing medical 
conditions. But as he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition, its unlikely that being 
provided with further information in that regard would have caused him to change his mind 
about buying the policy. Similarly, Im not persuaded that more information about the re-
qualifying period for making a claim would have made a difference. 
Its possible that BoS didnt give Mr C as much information about the policy as it should 
have. However, as I consider that Mr C had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, he is 
no worse off as a result of anything that BoS may have done wrong during the sale.
This means that BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. But BoS 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:
When the policy was sold, BoS expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. 
Because BoS didnt tell Mr C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Mr C is concerned that BoS hasnt provided any evidence of the level of commission and 
profit share it received, particularly between 2010-13 when it says the level was below 50%. 
However, this service has carried out a great deal of work with individual businesses to 
ensure that they have accurately reported their commission levels. So Id like to assure Mr C that, from what I know and have seen of how BoS has worked out its commission offer, Im 
satisfied it has done this correctly.
Mr C has mentioned that BoS upheld a complaint he made about the mis-sale of PPI 
associated with a credit card and that his circumstances at the time of that sale are similar to 
his circumstances at the time of this sale. We look at each case on his merits and I cant 
comment on why BoS decided to uphold Mr Cs other complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the PPI was not mis-sold  Bank of Scotland plc does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. As it has already paid this, I do not require 
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman