DRN-3217035
The complaint
Mr O complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly refused a request he 
made to transfer his existing mortgage to a new property. He says because of this hes had 
to pay an early repayment charge (£2,000) which he wants returned.
What happened
Mr O had a mortgage set up as two loans on fixed interest rates, which ended in either 2023 
or 2024. If he repaid the mortgage within the fixed rate periods he had to pay an early 
repayment charge (ERC)  which varied over the fixed rate period.
After about two years Mr O wanted to move home  so in late 2020 he asked NatWest to 
port his mortgage to a new property hed found. That meant he wouldnt have to pay the 
ERC. NatWest agreed to this, providing an offer that expired on 1 June 2021. Unfortunately 
the house move didnt happen.
Some months later Mr O found another property. So he asked NatWest to port his mortgage 
to this new property. As this was more than three months after the first porting offer, and for 
a different property, alongside other changes, NatWest carried out a full assessment and 
credit check. It said Mr O had failed to reach the required credit score so it couldnt port the 
mortgage. 
Mr O complained, as this meant he had to repay his mortgage and pay the ERC before he 
could move as he wished.
Mr O said the only thing that had changed between the first request to port the mortgage and 
the second was that NatWest conducted an exercise about adding product fees to 
mortgages. As he was no longer interested in paying a product fee, this was removed from 
his application. As part of that process NatWest carried out a credit check 
NatWest said that if the only reason for Mr O not reaching the score threshold was the 
review process for the fee, then it could have proceeded with the offer it made at the 
beginning of December 2020. But as Mr O wanted a mortgage for a different property, and 
had asked for other changes too it had to carry out a full review  and he had failed the 
credit score. 
Mr O explained his file incorrectly stated he wasnt on the electoral register when he was. 
NatWest said that might have been the case all along so it didnt know if that was the only 
factor in him not reaching the scoring threshold. Nat West went on to say its scoring 
processes were confidential so it couldnt say exactly why Mr O had failed the score, but it 
did agree to remove the search it had done about the product fee from Mr Os credit file. 
When Mr O brought his complaint to us for review our investigator thought NatWest had 
done enough. She said it was reasonable for NatWest to follow its own processes for 
assessing whether it wanted to port or advance a mortgage. And she noted that Mr Os 
mortgage made it clear hed have to pay the ERC if he repaid the mortgage within the fixed 
rate period. 
Mr O doesnt think this is fair, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I realise this will be disappointing for Mr O so Ill 
explain how Ive reached my conclusions.
The underlying issue here is that Mr O didnt reach the required score when NatWest 
assessed his mortgage application in 2021.
Mr O says nothing changed in his circumstances between NatWest saying it would port his 
mortgage in late 2020 and when it refused his application in March 2021. But he was 
applying for a mortgage for a different property, and from what I can see wanted to borrow a 
higher percentage of the purchase price. So there were some differences between his 
porting application in late 2020 and the one in March 2021. Additionally more than three 
months had passed since Mr O was offered the ported mortgage  and peoples 
circumstances can change over time.
That means I think it reasonable that NatWest carry out a full assessment of his 
circumstances, including checking his credit file. And I cant say its unfair for NatWest to set 
its own parameters and scoring systems when processing an application, as its entitled to 
do that as part of its commercial decisions. I also think its reasonable for NatWest to keep 
this process and the detailed results confidential for commercial reasons.
I havent seen Mr Os credit file, nor do I know if hes had the information about him being on 
the electoral roll corrected. And of course I dont know what other information is on his file 
that might affect whether NatWest would lend. Im not suggesting theres any negative 
information  but NatWest, along with all lenders, weigh different pieces of information 
differently.
Taking everything into account I cant say NatWest was at fault when it decided it couldnt 
port Mr Os mortgage to a new property. Having looked at the original mortgage paperwork, I 
can see the ERC was clearly described. That means that if Mr O chose to repay this 
mortgage before the fixed periods ended so he could move to a new house, it wasnt unfair 
for NatWest to collect the relevant ERC.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman