DRN-4227903
The complaint
Ms B complains, that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) advised her to opt out of a 
defined benefit occupational pension scheme (DBOPS) and open a personal pension plan 
(PPP) instead. She feels she received unsuitable advice and is financially worse off as a 
result.
What happened
Ms B is represented in her complaint by her legal representatives but for clarity I will refer to 
Ms B throughout this decision.
In 1991, Ms B met with an adviser from Aviva to discuss her pension provision. Ms B says 
she was advised to opt out of a DBOPS and open a PPP with Aviva. At the time, Ms B was 
32 years old and had been employed in the entertainment industry for some time. 
In July 2013, Ms B took the benefits available from the PPP she opened with Aviva. At the 
time of taking her benefits, they had a value of just over £12,000.
It is not clear what prompted Ms B to discuss her pension provision with her representatives 
but in September 2022, they complained to Aviva on her behalf about the advice she 
received in 1991.
Aviva accepted the complaint and began their investigation. But due to the time that has 
passed it had to contact various third parties to ascertain information about Ms Bs company 
scheme. It was not able to provide a response within 8 week and so Ms Bs legal 
representative referred the matter to this service.
On 14 April 2023, Aviva issued its final response. It said following an extensive investigation 
it had established that Ms B was employed between January 1979 and March 1991. The 
advice she received from the adviser was given on 4 April 1991. This would mean she was 
not an active member of the occupational pension scheme at that the time the advice was 
given and so couldnt have been advised to opt-out. Aviva acknowledged that this was 
somewhat at odds with the information in the fact find and so sought further clarification from 
her previous employer. It confirmed Ms B has indeed left their employment and the company 
pension scheme on 31 March 1991 and so Aviva concluded at the time of the advice Ms B 
could not have been advised to opt out as she was no longer an active member.
An investigator looked into things for Ms B. He explained that he had taken account of Ms 
Bs recollections and the evidence from Aviva and HMRC. He could see there were 
inconsistencies in the fact find and the evidence provided by Ms B, her previous employer 
and HMRC. On balance he found the evidence suggested that Ms B was not an active 
member of the DBOPS at the time and as such could not have been advised to opt out of a 
scheme, she was longer a member of. He didnt find that Aviva had done anything wrong 
and so he didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms B via her representatives didnt agree. They said:
The fact find indicates that Ms B explained the company she worked for was being 
taken over and that she was advised not to opt into the new pension scheme as she 
would incur increased charges. The advisor then set up the new pension plan for her 
to join.
Underneath the summary of recommendations and actions it states, if any of these 
recommendations involve the cancellation, conversion or lapse of any existing 
investment contract please provide reasons the answer states only existing pension 
scheme. It said had Ms B left the scheme the answer would have been n/or no. 
Further to this, on page 6 of the fact fine under the question are you a member of a 
company pension scheme? it states yes.
The legal representatives on behalf of Ms B asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have independently reached the same outcome as the investigator and Im 
not upholding Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
I have summarised this complaint in less detail that Ms B has done and, Ive done so using 
my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this; our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it - I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. Instead, I will focus on what I find to be the key issue here  whether Aviva 
advised Ms B to opt out of her DOPS and if so, was the advice it gave unsuitable.
Its probably important to say at the outset this service isnt intended to regulate or punish 
businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. Instead, 
this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a business. 
Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to put things 
right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would have been if 
the problem hadnt occurred.
Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened. 
Ms Bs legal representatives have pointed to a number of concerns from the fact find that 
was completed around the time of the advice. It suggests that Ms B wanted a PPP and 
wanted to leave the company scheme as the company was being taken over. It also 
suggests an existing pension was being either cancelled, converted, or would lapse around 
the same time the PPP was taken out. Finally, an answer of yes was given to the question 
whether Ms B was a member of a company pension scheme. So, on the surface this look 
like Ms B could have been advised to opt out of a DBOPS.
Aviva carried out an extensive and difficult investigation, not least because it involved 
identifying a number of third parties to establish Ms Bs employment details and membership 
of the particular DBOPS in question.It provided evidence to this service to show Ms B was employed from 19 January 1979 to 31 
March 1991 by the employer in question and joined the occupational pension scheme on 1 
April 1982. She ceased being a member when she left employment on 31 March 1991. 
This information independently verified by HMRC who confirmed Ms B was contracted out of 
SERPS between 9 April 1982 and 31 March 1991. Ms B also confirmed she stopped working 
for this employer in 1991.
I appreciate Ms B says her recollections of the advice she was given are different. Its been 
32 years since the meeting took place between Ms B and the adviser. So, whilst I dont 
doubt what Ms B is saying, memories can and do fade, so I have looked to the evidence 
available to reach my decision on a balance of probabilities.
On the information available Im persuaded the dates provided by HMRC and her previous 
employer are more likely than not to be accurate. On that basis Ms B left her employment on 
31 March 1991 and importantly ceased to be an active member of the DBOPS.
On the fact find, it says an existing pension was being either cancelled, converted, or would 
lapse around the same time the PPP was taken out. But based on the contemporary 
evidence, I dont think this means Ms B was being advised to take out the PPP and opt out 
of a DBOPS.  Im of the view its more likely than not that this question was answered yes 
because she was now no longer an active member of her employers scheme, and so at that 
point she would be a deferred member of the scheme. So, Im in agreement that answering 
yes to this question wasnt incorrect based on the other evidence I have.
I also accept that Ms B may well have said she was a member of a company scheme at the 
time of the advice, but that doesnt mean she was being advised to opt out of a DBOPS. As 
Ive said Ms B would have been a deferred member of the scheme at the time of advice but 
only just as she met the adviser within a week of leaving her employment, so answering yes, 
in my opinion, wasnt unreasonable at that point.
Im persuaded on balance that the evidence from HMRC and Ms Bs employer is more 
persuasive than Ms Bs recollections from 32 years ago. I havent seen any evidence that 
persuades me the advice was to opt out of a DBOPS in favour of a PPP.
I think the evidence suggests its more likely than not Ms B met the adviser just after she left 
the company scheme, her previous employer may or may not have been subject to a 
company takeover, but as Ms B had left its employment that in itself doesnt suggest she 
would have been an active member of any scheme. I think its more likely that Ms B left her 
employment and then discussed with Aviva, a pension she could open so she could save 
towards her retirement. Ion that basis a PPP would have been suitable advice as she was 
not a member of a pension scheme.
I can see that both Ms B and her legal representatives have been asked several times to 
submit any further evidence they have that Ms B was advised to opt out of an active 
scheme, but I havent seen anything beyond the challenges to the evidence available. 
On balance Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence to suggest Aviva did advice Ms B 
to opt out of a DBOPS, on the basis she had already left her employment and as such was a 
deferred member rather than an active member of the scheme and I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman