DRN-1629365
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs representative, their servicing agent and son-in-law (Mr F), complains on 
their behalf that Phoenix Life Limited paid out £20,000 from their investment by way of a 
partial withdrawal, without their consent or knowledge. 
 
What happened
The investment (a single premium bond) commenced on 26 September 1986 with an initial 
investment of £10,100. In 19 March 2001, over 700 units were deducted from the fund as 
part of a partial surrender.  
The business hasnt upheld the complaint. In summary, it says:
It wouldve asked the customer to go through a stringent verification process so 
doesnt believe theres been any illicit activity.
Its unable to uphold the complaint on the basis of not having the correct information 
about the withdrawal. 
Its only required to retain information up to seven years. 
Its sorry that Mrs H was given incorrect information about it paying her the proceeds 
by cheque.  
Although its unable to provide paperwork in relation to the withdrawal, in September 
2010 it provided confirmation of the withdrawal. Its also continued to provide annual 
updates, and no questions were raised about the change in value. 
It offered £125 compensation by way of an apology for the time taken in responding 
to the complaint. 
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Its not unreasonable that the business no longer has the documentation in relation to 
the withdrawal. Its not uncommon for businesses to retain documents for six years. 
Records show that in August 2010 a third-party wrote to the business, enclosing a 
letter of request and requested details of the investment. 
In September 2010, the business wrote to the third-party confirming that it had 
registered it as the new servicing agent, along with information confirming the 
£20,000 withdrawal.
In the circumstances shes unable to agree that Mr and Mrs H werent notified of the 
withdrawal before April 2019. 
Although the business accepts that a the suggestion a cheque was paid to Mrs H 
was a mistake, on balance she thinks its likely the funds were paid to Mr and Mrs H 
in 2001. Statements issued between 2006 and 2009 show details of another representative it 
may be worth contacting them for more information.
The businesss offer to pay £125 compensation for a poor service is fair and 
reasonable.  
 
Mr F disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, he said:
The investigator is wrong to suggest that businesses arent required to retain 
information for more than six years.
The investigators view is unprofessional and factually incorrect. Sufficient weight 
wasnt given to the information/documentation provided.
The bond was held in both names and although Mr and Mrs H were represented by a 
third party, the business shouldve contacted them directly. 
The business, having confirmed that the proceeds were issued by cheque twice, but 
later denied that this happened. This suggests its withholding information from our 
service and probably did pay out using a cheque. 
 
The business made the following key observations:
In 2001, Mr and Mrs H withdrew £20,000. 
The withdrawal was assessed for a chargeable gain (at the next annual excess 
assessment on 25 September 2001) and a gain of £12,425.00 was reported to HM 
Revenue and Customs.
Unfortunately it doesnt have a copy of the chargeable gains certificate (CGC) 
because its archives dont go that far back. 
Mr and Mrs H have been provided with a copy of the calculations so they can check 
their tax reporting records from around the time of the withdrawal.  
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr F says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably.      
But before I explain further why this is the case, its important for me to note I recognise Mr 
and Mrs Hs strength of feeling about this matter.
Mr F has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope Mr and Mrs H wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr F and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice but Im not bound by this. But its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
In the circumstances I dont think the business has done anything wrong by not being able to 
provide documentation about the withdrawal made over 18 years ago when the bond was 
administered by a predecessor business, and there was also another servicing agent 
registered. 
Im aware that businesses arent required by law to retain information indefinitely, so Im 
unable to say that the business has done anything wrong by not being able to provide more 
information about the withdrawal in terms of to whom or how the payment was made, even 
though the bond remains live. 
Im conscious the business is sorry for suggesting that a cheque was paid to Mrs H, when 
theres no evidence to suggest that this was in fact the case. It had assumed  
notwithstanding the fact that Mr and Mrs H have joint accounts  any payment on a jointly 
owned investment would be paid to the party that was likely to pay little or no tax which it 
now accepts was an error. 
In the circumstances I dont have to know who the money was paid to in order to reach a 
decision in this case. I appreciate Mr F says that Mr and Mrs H havent received any money 
but its possible that they did but no longer recall this event from almost two decades ago. 
Im mindful that Mr H is 90 years of age and Mrs H is in her late 80s and their recollection 
wont be helped if they dont have any paperwork relating to this withdrawal. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr F says, Im satisfied that in 
September 2010, the business notified the current servicing agent about the withdrawal but 
no issues were raised at that point either by Mr and Mrs H or their representative. I 
appreciate Mr F suggests there was no reason to go through the information in any detail, 
but it also shows that the business was forthcoming about the history of the investment and 
any withdrawals made.
The business has confirmed that it wouldnt have paid out money without conducting 
stringent checks and, other than what Mr F says, Ive seen nothing to suggest that it has 
paid out without carrying out the necessary checks. I note from its recent letter regarding the 
surrender value incorrectly sent to a different address  for which the business is sorry and 
has offered compensation  the business confirmed that itd only pay out to policyholders or 
a person legally entitled to claim the proceeds and wouldnt pay to any third party.
I note Mr F says that Mr and Mrs H didnt receive any documentation until 2012/2013, but I 
also note that they changed address in 2000/2001 which may have had an impact. 
Im conscious Mr F says hed be surprised if they didnt have their mail redirected, but its 
possible that something went wrong so the notification might not have reached them. But in 
the circumstances I dont think I can blame the business for Mr and Mrs H not changing their 
address (if thats what happened) or possible issues with a third party postal service. 
Despite this Im satisfied that they were also provided with annual statements showing the 
value of their investments, even as late as late as 2012, according to Mr F, including the reduction as a result of the partial withdrawal. In the circumstances, I dont think the 
business couldve reasonably done more to keep Mr and Mrs H up to date.
I note that Mr and Mrs H wouldve also been provided with a CGC, in respect of the potential 
tax that theyd have to pay, but again no issues were raised about potentially higher taxes.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want to hear. But on the face 
of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give them what they want.
In the circumstances Im unable to say the business has done anything wrong by not being 
able to provide more information about the partial withdrawal and how it was paid.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think the offer made by Phoenix Life Limited for the delay and issues in dealing with Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman