DRN-4145805
The complaint
Mr L complains that he and his wife were mis-sold a points-based timeshare product and the 
loan used to finance it. The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, 
which trades as Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF.
Mr L has been represented by a claims business, which Ill refer to as F. Where I refer to 
Mr Ls submissions and arguments, I include those made on his behalf.
What happened
In January 2015 Mr and Mrs L were on holiday and attended a presentation given by or on 
behalf of Diamond Resorts (Europe) Limited (DRL). Following that presentation, they 
agreed to buy 19,500 Points Rights, upgrading their existing membership of DRLs European 
Collection. These could be exchanged for holiday club accommodation. To pay for the 
Points Rights Mr L took out a £13,285 10-year loan with BPF.
In early 2019 F contacted BPF on behalf of Mr L. F said its clients had been misled into 
buying the Points Rights and that BPF was equally liable with DRL. F made the following 
arguments:
The terms of the sale agreement were unfair in themselves.
BPF had not disclosed the commission paid to DRL.
Mr and Mrs L had been told there was guaranteed availability of accommodation, but 
they had had to compromise when making bookings.
They had been told that resorts were for the exclusive use of members, which was not 
the case.
They had not been told that the memberships were in perpetuity.
Mr L had not been given the option of using a different lender.
They had not been given enough time to review the documents.
The presentation had been high-pressured.
BPF had not properly assessed whether the loan was affordable.
BPF did not uphold Mr Ls complaint and F referred it to this service. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint but did not recommend that it be upheld. Mr L did not accept the 
investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.   
I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
I note that I have not been provided with a complete copy of the sale documentation. I have 
therefore made some assumptions about it  based on my knowledge of DRLs contracts 
from around the time that Mr L took out the loan. F will be able to provide evidence if 
materially different documents were used in this case. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
Mr and Mrs L contracted with DRL for the supply of the Points Rights. Their liability was joint 
and several. DRL is also named as the supplier in BPFs documentation. I am satisfied 
therefore that the loan was arranged by DRL under existing arrangements with BPF. Indeed, 
that does not appear to be in dispute. I must therefore consider what Mr L has said about the 
actions of DRL.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mr L has listed a number of statements which he says were made at the presentation and 
which induced him into the purchase. That is, he says that, but for those statements, he 
would not have bought the Points Rights that he did.
There is, however, rather less information about what happened after the purchase. For 
example, Mr L has said that accommodation was not as widely available as he was told it 
would be. There is however no evidence to show what holidays he tried to book without 
success.
I note too that Mr and Mrs L were upgrading their membership. It appears therefore that they 
may have been familiar with the operation of the club. I think they would have known, for 
example, that the clubs facilities might be made available to non-members. It is likely too 
that they were familiar with the clubs booking system and would have known that points-
based membership did not and could not guarantee specific accommodation at a particular 
time  in contrast to property- based membership.
It is unlikely too that documentation differed significantly from Mr and Mrs Ls existing 
membership papers. Even if it did, they had 14 days in which to check it  which I believe 
they would have done if the statements on which they say they relied had been of sufficient 
importance.
The only sale documentation which F has provided in this case to date is the first page of the 
purchase agreement. 
I am aware however that DRLs standard purchase agreement was a 3-page document. Its 
sale documents also included a Key Information document and a Customer Compliance 
Statement. I think it likely that Mr and Mrs L were provided with and signed those documents 
in this case. Its unlikely that DRL would have completed the sale without them, and the Key 
Information document was referred to in the purchase agreement.      
DRLs Terms and Conditions (on page 2) included, at clause 6, an entire agreement clause, 
telling buyers that if they were relying on verbal promises, they should be put in writing.Part 1, section 4 of the Key Information document gave an end date for membership. Part 3, 
section 4 provided information about termination of the contract. It explained that 
membership could be transferred in some circumstances. In exceptional circumstances it 
might be possible to relinquish membership. They included either member becoming 75 
years old. In the circumstances, Mr Ls complaint that he and Mrs L were not told that the 
contract was in perpetuity seems unfounded, since the terms say the opposite. F has not 
shown that the contract was in perpetuity. 
The Customer Compliance Statement comprised 22 statements about the sale and loan. 
Customers ticked each one and signed the document. The statements included: 
a statement that the points system offered flexibility, subject to availability (4);
confirmation that that they were able to meet the financial commitments under any 
finance agreement (17);
a statement that they understood that DRL worked with credit providers and that it was 
entitled to receive a commission in respect of credit brokered (18);
confirmation that they had been treated courteously, had been given time to consider 
whether the product was right for them, and had not been put under pressure (20);
confirmation they had read the purchase agreement, key information and any finance 
document and were happy to proceed (21);
confirmation that they understood that the documents constituted the entire agreement 
and that no oral or written representations had been made on which they had relied 
(22).
The fact that Mr and Mrs L are likely to have signed these statements does not of course 
mean that they were true. But if they were not true, I would have expected Mr L to explain 
why he signed the document and why, having done so, he did not exercise his right of 
withdrawal. 
In summary, I do not believe it is unreasonable to conclude that a misrepresentation claim 
against DRL is unlikely to be successful.
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
Fs main reason for saying that its client has a claim under sections 140A and 140B is that 
he was misled and pressured at the point of sale. For the reasons Ive explained, Im not 
persuaded that he was.
F says too that Mr L should have been told not just that commission was payable, but how 
much it would be. He says that only BPF was suggested as lender. This was not therefore a 
case where the level of any commission varied depending on the lender, or where DRL had 
an incentive to recommend one lender over another. And there is no suggestion that the 
level of commission was important to Mr L. If it had been, he could have asked for details; 
there is no reason to think they would not have been provided.
So, whether or not there was an obligation to provide information about the level of 
commission, I dont believe any unfairness resulted.BPF may have been the only lender that DRL introduced to Mr L. But he was not obliged to 
use finance at all and could have approached a different lender. Had he done so, however, 
he would not have had the protection of section 75. 
In the circumstances, I think it unlikely that a court would make an order under section 140A 
and 140B.
Affordability
Mr L says that no assessment was made to ensure he could afford the loan. He has not 
suggested however that he has had any difficulty in making repayments. The Customer 
Compliance Statement  which I have found Mr L is likely to have signed  indicates that 
DRL did discuss the loan with him, although it was for BPF to assess whether it was suitable 
and affordable.
The fact that Mr L has been able to meet the loan repayments does not, of itself, mean that 
the loan was in fact affordable, still less that BPF properly assessed it. It is however an 
indication that it was and that a more detailed assessment is unlikely to have made any real 
difference overall.
I concluded, provisionally, that I would not uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
F indicated that Mr L would not accept my provisional decision, but was unable to contact 
him to obtain further instructions. Mr L has not therefore put forwarded any new arguments 
or provided any additional evidence in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because I have received no further evidence or arguments following my provisional decision, 
I do not believe there is any reason for me to reach a different conclusion about the 
resolution of Mr Ls complaint.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman