DRN-4206578
The complaint
Mrs Y complains Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) has unfairly handled a claim 
under her motor insurance policy.
Any reference to Mrs Y or Skyfire includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known by both parties, so Ill summarise events.
Following an incident in December 2022, Mrs Y made a claim under her motor 
insurance policy.
In January 2023, Mrs Y delivered her vehicle to Skyfires approved repairer 
(Company A) and was told the necessary repairs would take two weeks.
Mrs Y called Company A after a week or so and was told Skyfire had not authorised 
any repairs. And upon calling Skyfire, she was told Company A was no longer one of 
its approved repairers. Skyfire said a mistake on the part of its repair team led to the 
delay. But Skyfire arranged for Company A to still carry out the works.
Mrs Y said the vehicle was repaired and collected in mid-March 2023. She 
complained, saying shed had to make many calls for updates and to move the claim 
forward.
The complaint was brought to this Service. Mrs Y asked for a refund of the policy 
premiums, compensation and additional costs related to petrol and parking.
Our Investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. Skyfire provided little 
information to this Service to consider so the assessment was largely based on Mrs 
Ys submissions.
The Investigator said Skyfire was responsible for the actions and work carried out by 
its repair team and approved repairer. So, she awarded £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by delays and poor communication. But she said 
Skyfire didnt need to refund premiums as Mrs Y had received the benefit of the 
policy, and Skyfire wasnt liable for additional petrol or parking costs.
Mrs Y disagreed, and said the compensation was not sufficient. Skyfire responded to 
say it would follow the Investigators direction.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The dispute in this case is about Skyfires handling of Mrs Ys claim. Skyfire will be 
aware of its obligations to handle claims promptly and fairly.
Its not in dispute that Mrs Y was told by Skyfire to deliver her vehicle to Company A. 
Nor is it disputed that delays occurred following this that related to Company As 
status as an approved repairer.
Skyfire seemingly attributed this mistake to its repairs team. But Skyfire is unable to 
distance itself from the actions of its own staff, agents or representatives. So, its 
clear to me there has been a delay that was avoidable, and not the fault of Mrs Y. 
This satisfies me Skyfire hasnt handled this claim promptly or fairly.
Mrs Y has asked for a refund of premiums. I dont think this would be appropriate 
here as the premiums represent payment for insurance cover  of which she has 
received. I think the appropriate remedy is to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience Skyfire has put her through, taking into account the additional time it 
took and unnecessary communication she had to engage in. And Im satisfied a sum 
of £250 reflects the frustration Skyfire has caused her.
Mrs Y has asked for additional petrol and parking costs to account for her time using 
the courtesy car. Its not unusual for policyholders to receive a courtesy car which 
isnt a like for like match of their own car and which may differ on fuel consumption. 
So whilst I recognise Mrs Ys frustration, in these circumstances and given the time 
periods involved, Im not persuaded its reasonable to direct Skyfire to cover 
additional petrol costs. And the frustration shes experienced in having to have the 
courtesy car for longer than anticipated is reflected in the award for compensation 
Ive made above. 
With regards to the parking costs, this isnt a typical cost Id expect an insurer to 
cover. But in any case, Mrs Y hasnt substantiated these and so Im not persuaded 
that Skyfire reasonably should cover them.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im upholding this complaint.
I direct Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Pay Mrs Y £250 in compensation to account for its delays and poor handling of her 
claim.
Skyfire must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs Y 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman