DRN-4183787
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way J D Williams & Company Limited trading as J D Williams 
administered his catalogue shopping account. 
What happened
In early 2023, Mr P ordered items using his J D Williams catalogue shopping account. Mr P 
said that around the time the items were due to be delivered, he noticed the courier 
responsible for delivering them had taken a picture of a green bin as proof of delivery. Mr P 
said in February 2023 the courier confirmed it was a non-compliant delivery and directed Mr 
P to get in touch with J D Williams for next steps. 
Mr P said he contacted J D Williams and was told on 19 February 2023 that it would re-credit 
his account with the cost of the order within 7 days.
After not receiving the credit Mr P contacted J D Williams again on 26 February 2023 and 
made a complaint. On 1 March 2023 J D Williams said the relevant team would process the 
credit and it should show online within 24 hours as well as on Mr Ps next monthly statement. 
J D Williams has said the request for the credit to be made was not actioned. As a result, it 
asked Mr P to start making repayments for the items. 
Mr P brought his complaint to this service. After this, in May 2023, J D Williams wrote to Mr 
P and confirmed that none of the items hed ordered had been delivered properly. It said it 
would re-credit Mr Ps account and reinstate his £150 credit limit. It said it would also instruct 
the credit reference agencies to remove any late payment markers from the account. J D 
Williams sent Mr P a cheque for £25 to apologise for the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused him. 
Dissatisfied with this response Mr P asked us to continue to look into his complaint. 
An investigator didnt think J D Williams needed to do any more than it already had. She said 
that some of the things that Mr P was complaining about were retail activities carried out by  
J D Williams rather than credit related activities. She didnt think she could ask J D Williams 
to pay compensation to Mr P in respect of any failures there may have been in respect of 
those activities as they were not regulated activities and this service couldnt consider 
complaints about them.
Mr P disagreed with the investigator and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To elaborate on what the investigator has explained, our rules generally only permit us to 
consider complaints about specific kind of activities. Regulated activities and activities 
ancillary to them being examples. Having the right to exercise the lenders rights and duties 
under a regulated credit agreement is a regulated activity.  Mr Ps catalogue shopping 
account was a regulated credit agreement. 
The fulfilment of orders and decisions as to whether to provide a refund on an order were not 
the exercising of rights or duties under a regulated credit agreement in this case, nor 
ancillary to that activity. I say this because Mr Ps credit agreement placed no duties on J D 
Williams to fulfil orders or to make refunds if there were problems with those orders. And 
those kind of activities did not provide the necessary support to the main activity.
That being said, if J D Williams decided in this case that a refund was due on an item as part 
of its retail processes, and was not paying it directly to Mr P then it seems reasonable for it 
to have taken appropriate action in respect of his credit agreement once that decision had 
been made  such as recrediting the account with the sum of the order for example. 
J D Williams has said that missing parcel claims are investigated and resolved in line with its 
retail processes and the delay in providing the refund was caused by a failing in this process. 
It said the retail process had no connection to the credit agreement and the same process is 
followed for non-credit customers also. 
I asked J D Williams to provide some evidence of this separation in this specific case and 
evidence that the error lay strictly within its retail process. It said its customer service team 
escalated a request for a refund after it told Mr P it would refund him in March 2023 but it 
was not actioned in line with the retail process due to an adviser error. 
From everything Ive seen, its not clear enough to me that the error was strictly related to     
J D Williamss retail processes. For example, when J D Williams contacted Mr P in March 
2023, it had seemingly already made the decision to refund him under its retail processes. 
But it also told him a refund would reflect on his next statement  seemingly in refence to his 
catalogue shopping account/credit agreement . It appears that only in its capacity as a 
lender could J D Williams make the decision to amend Mr Ps catalogue shopping account to 
reflect a refund on an order hed used credit to purchase and hadnt yet repaid.
On that basis, even though J D Williams was not obliged by the terms of the credit 
agreement to refund the catalogue shopping account, I think in making a promise to Mr P to 
adjust the account, it was carrying out activities related to the administration of the credit 
agreement. In other words it was exercising its duties under a regulated credit agreement. 
So, a failure to carry out the actions it promised in reasonable time, is something I can 
consider a complaint about. What this means in this case is that I can consider whether J D 
Williams has done enough to put things right. 
J D Williams has adjusted Mr Ps account to reflect the refund, restored Mr Ps credit limit, 
confirmed it would instruct the credit refence agencies to remove any adverse information 
and paid him compensation of £25. Mr P remains unhappy with the compensation aspect of 
these remedies. 
Ive thought about the impact of the error on Mr P. It would no doubt have been frustrating to 
be asked to pay for items that the same company had already told him it would refund. And it 
took J D Williams longer than it should have to make the adjustment to the account that it 
promised it would make  leading to Mr P having to keep contacting it to find out what was 
going on. 
Looking at everything in the round however, (including the fact that some of J D Williamss 
errors did relate to its retail processes and the fact it was not obliged by the terms of the 
contract to refund Mr P), I find it has treated him fairly in the way it has put things right and 
doesnt need to do anymore than it already has.I understand Mr P has been unable to make purchases on his account since he made his 
complaint because J D Williams is reviewing the account. This wasnt part of Mr Ps original 
complaint so Ive not considered it in my decision. If however Mr P is unhappy with J D 
Williams handling of that matter, he is free to pursue things in the same way he did with this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained I do not require J D Williams to do any more than it already 
has. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman