DRN-2197098
The complaint
Mr P complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) gave him misleading advice 
about a travel insurance policy he had taken out through it.
Mr P is represented by Ms B.
What happened
Mr P had a current account with RBS. It was a packaged bank account which included travel 
insurance for him and his family. He booked a family holiday but had concerns about the 
policy because a previous claim hed made had been declined. His wife had a pre-existing 
medical condition. 
He went to a branch of RBS in October 2019 to make enquiries about the policy. He says he 
was told that his wife needed to take out a separate policy but the travel policy with his 
account would still cover him and his children. He arranged a separate policy for his wife.
Mr P says he wasnt able to go on the holiday because his wife became unwell and had to 
be taken to hospital on the day that they were due to leave. He made a claim under the 
travel insurance policy which was included with his packaged bank account, but it was 
declined because of his wifes pre-existing condition. He says hes lost £12,000 due to the 
misleading advice he received from RBS. He complained to RBS.
RBS investigated his complaint. It initially said that because his complaint related to a 
declined claim rather than a mis-sold policy Mr P needed to raise a complaint with the 
insurer. But, Mr P was adamant that hed attended a branch and named the member of staff 
hed spoken to. RBS said that the member of staff wasnt able to make a statement. But it 
said its staff were fully trained and so wouldve told him to contact the banks Travel 
Department to see if it could underwrite Mr Ps wifes pre-existing medical condition. 
Mr P wasnt satisfied with this response, so he referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into his complaint. She said that there was conflicting information about 
what Mr P had been told when he attended the branch. And, although the member of staff 
involved hadnt been able to provide a statement, she said she wouldve expected Mr P to 
have contacted the travel insurer directly. She thought this was the case because hed had a 
previous claim declined.
She also said Mr P had a copy of the policy which made it clear that if anyone insured on the 
policy had pre-existing medical conditions, they should contact the Travel Department. So, 
she said she couldnt fairly say RBS had done anything wrong.
Mr P didnt agree. He said that RBS should get a statement from the member of staff 
concerned and from a second member of staff whod also been present at the time. RBS did 
obtain a statement from the member of staff. She said she couldnt remember the 
conversation, but she wouldve told him to contact the Travel Department. 
Our investigator didnt change her view. So, the complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has been experiencing a very difficult time. His wife has been unwell, and hes incurred 
considerable costs on a holiday which wasnt able to go ahead. Im very sorry to read about 
his wifes health and the circumstances hes found himself in.
There is conflicting information about what happened when Mr P attended one of RBSs 
branches at the start of October 2019. Weve now been able to consider statements from 
two members of staff who spoke to Mr P on that date. The first member of staff (X) has said 
that she cannot recollect the conversation but she is adamant she wouldve told Mr P to 
contact the Travel Department. 
Mr P informed us there was a second member of staff (Y) who spoke to him when he visited 
the branch. And we have received a statement from that person also. She says she does 
recall the conversation. But she says she told Mr P to contact the Travel Department. And 
she says she provided him with the contact number for the Travel Department. She also 
says she gave Mr P a copy of the packaged account booklet which included further details 
about the travel insurance.
As Ive said above, this conflicts with what Mr P has said. He says he was told to take out a 
separate policy for his wife but that the policy provided with his bank account would continue 
to cover him and his children.
Where there is conflicting information I have to consider whether there is any other evidence 
to support what has been said. 
Mr P did arrange a separate travel policy for his wife. He says he did this because that was 
what hed been told to do. But, although the separate policy covered the cancellation of his 
wifes holiday, the policy included with his packaged bank account didnt cover the 
cancellation of his own and his childrens holiday. 
Ive also considered the statements from the two members of staff who spoke to Mr P.
Y says she told Mr P he would be best to contact the Travel Department. And she says she 
gave him the contact number and a packaged account booklet with all of the information. 
Mr P says he was not given a contact number and he was not given a booklet. Mr P also 
says that both X and Y told him he and his children would be covered but would need 
separate insurance for his wife.
I wasnt present when Mr P was in the branch. So, I have to decide, based on all of the 
evidence, whats most likely to have happened. 
Having considered everything here, on balance Im persuaded that RBS didnt provide 
misleading advice to Mr P. I think its more likely it referred him to the Travel Department for 
advice. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr P so, Ill explain why I think thats 
more likely.X says she would have referred Mr P to the Travel Department. Y says she did tell him to 
contact the Travel Department and she says she gave Mr P contact details to do this. This is 
consistent with what the branch manager has said about staff training and its also in line 
with what the documentation says. 
The wording in the policy documents, which were provided to Mr P when the policy was 
taken out, states that customers with an existing medical condition are excluded from cover 
unless they phone a number specified on the policy for screening. It also says that an 
additional premium may be required or the insurer could decide not to provide cover for the 
condition. 
The policy says:
 
if a member of your immediate familyor anyone travelling in your party has been a 
hospital inpatient prior to your booking the journey, this policy does not cover the 
subsequent cancellation or curtailment of that journey as a result.
So, in line with what this documentation says, Mr P shouldve contacted the Travel 
Department by phoning the number set out in the policy. This is also consistent with the 
Keyfacts document which was provided to Mr P when the policy began. It stated that RBS 
wouldnt provide any advice or recommendations about the policy.
The policy document does say that additional steps needed to be taken where anyone 
travelling in the party had an existing medical condition. Y says she told Mr P to ask the 
Travel Department about cover for his wife, because of her pre-existing condition. I dont 
think that either X or Y provided Mr P with advice to get a separate policy for his wife with a 
different insurer without contacting the Travel Department. 
Mr P told us hed made a previous claim on the policy in 2018 but it was declined. So, 
because of that I think he would have been aware of the importance of checking the cover 
with the insurance company. He would have dealt directly with the insurance company or the 
Travel Department in relation to that claim.
I understand Mr P couldnt proceed with his holiday and I appreciate hes spent a lot of 
money which he didnt get any value for. So, I can see why he wants to pursue all avenues 
to try to recover that money. But, having considered everything here, on balance, Im not 
persuaded that RBS provided him with misleading advice about his travel insurance cover. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about The Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman