DRN-2365976
The complaint
Mr R complains about the quality of a van he has been financing through an agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as Motonovo Finance (Motonovo).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Motonovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his van under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the van should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Motonovo, who are also the supplier of the van, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a van the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the van was supplied to Mr R. The van 
here was just over a year old and had completed a little under 25,000 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would not expect much wear and tear.
Mr R has experienced problems with the van pulling to one side and sliding in the wet. Hes 
had to replace tyres prematurely and has provided evidence from a tyre fitting company who 
have explained they have adjusted the wheel alignment on three occasions, but the 
alignment keeps moving out of tolerance.
When Motonovo initially accepted Mr Rs complaint they agreed to fit new front tyres. But   
Mr R says that repair has been unsuccessful. Thats a new complaint and Im persuaded we 
can therefore consider it.
The independent engineer noted that there was abnormal handling and torque steering but 
didnt think it was likely the condition had been present when the van had been supplied to 
Mr R.
But I dont think the independent engineer has given sufficient consideration to the fact Mr R 
has been complaining of this issue since he got the van. It doesnt appear to be an issue 
thats developed more recently.
I think the problems the independent engineer identified support the ongoing condition Mr R 
has been reporting since the inception of this deal and that hes provided supporting 
evidence of from the tyre fitting company.
I dont think Motonovo have identified the cause of the current issue, but I am persuaded it is 
likely to have been present when the van was supplied to Mr R.
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair a fault that is present at 
the point of supply.
Motonovo have had opportunities to repair this fault but Im persuaded those repairs have 
failed. They should now allow Mr R to reject the van.
  
Putting things right
Motonovo should therefore terminate Mr Rs finance agreement and theyll need to refund 
his deposit and pay interest on that refund as Mr R has been deprived of that money.
I think its clear Mr R has experienced problems with the van from the beginning. Hes been 
able to cover a reasonable mileage in the vehicle, but his use of the van would have been 
impacted by his concern he may lose control on tight turns. I think Motonovo should 
therefore refund 10% of the instalments Mr R has paid towards his agreement in respect of 
the loss of use and enjoyment hes experienced.
Hes also been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had, for example, to return his van to 
the dealership; obtain alignment reports and escalate his complaint to this service. In the 
circumstances, I think Motonovo should pay him £250 compensation.
They should also refund the costs of repairs/checks paid by Mr R to the tyre fitting company. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell FirstRand Bank Limited to:
end the finance agreement;
collect the van at no cost to Mr R;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
refund 10% of any finance instalments Mr R has paid and add 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr R £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Rs credit file in relation to 
this issue;
refund the cost of repairs/checks Mr R has had carried out, provided receipts are 
presented. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman