DRN-3453665
The complaint
Mr C complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc (M&S) wont refund the money
he lost when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeated them all
again here. But in summary, the scam unfolded as follows:
Mr C was looking online for trading opportunities. He decided to investment with a 
merchant, F, after speaking to them via online chat and over the phone.
Mr C made the following payments to F in May 2018 from his M&S credit card:
Date Amount
4 May 2018 £2,500
16 May 2018 £2,500
23 May 2018 £2,000
Total £7,000
In June 2018, Mr C called M&S to raise his credit limit from £7,400 to £11,400. He 
specifically told M&S this was so he could keep paying F  but he made no further 
payments to them following this.
Shortly after, Mr C tried to withdraw some funds. F said he couldnt do so until he 
reached a certain level of trading. He says this was never set out to him verbally or in 
writing before he started trading. And the trading threshold was so high, he was 
unlikely to ever reach it. He contacted M&S to raise a dispute about F. But it said it 
wasnt liable, and that neither a chargeback claim nor a Section 75 claim would cover 
these types of transactions. It did pay £75 compensation for failing to call Mr C back 
promptly during the claim. Ive not weighed in on the compensation as Ive seen no 
suggestion theres an outstanding dispute about it.
Unhappy with M&Ss response, Mr C referred the matter to our service. The 
investigator upheld the complaint, but M&S disagreed. So the matter was escalated 
to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision in March 2022 explaining why I was minded to 
uphold the complaint. Mr F has responded to confirm that hes never received any 
funds back from F. M&S has responded that it will accept my proposed settlement as 
a gesture of goodwill.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has disagreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from 
that. I therefore uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
M&Ss actions at the point of the transactions
Regardless of whether Mr C was tricked into making these payments, the starting 
position is that hes liable for them  as, in line with the Payment Service 
Regulations, firms are expected to process payments authorised by their customers.
There are some situations where we believe firmstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have 
looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the 
payment.
Im not persuaded M&S ought to have identified a fraud risk. I dont consider the level 
of the payments high enough to have warranted further questioning. Particularly as 
they were spread apart over several weeks, showing Mr C wasnt being immediately 
pressured into paying F, and were within his credit limit. Ive not found any reason 
why M&S ought to have been concerned about the merchant he paid either. Although 
the FCA did go on to issue a warning about F, this happened several months later. 
Ive seen a suggestion from Mr C that M&S may have flagged one or some of these 
payments. But Ive not got enough to support that.
Overall, Im not persuaded M&S ought to have identified the fraud risk at the point 
Mr C made these payments. So I dont hold it responsible for failing to stop the scam.
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
When Mr C reported this scam, M&S says it considered a section 75 claim  but the 
transactions werent covered as they were classified as gambling transactions. But I 
think section 75 does apply. The Act says:
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within 
section 12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, 
any claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, he shall have a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, 
shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor
(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
(a) under a non-commercial agreement,
(b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has 
attached a cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
In summary, for M&S to be liable under a section 75 claim, there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction;
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached 
a cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
Ill address each requirement or exclusion in turn:a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c)
This point doesnt seem to be in dispute. Mr C is the debtor; M&S is the credit and F is the 
supplier  as shown on the statements.
a transaction financed by the agreement
Transaction isnt defined in the Act, but its generally been given a wide interpretation by the 
courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal. Here, Mr C has 
deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those funds on an 
investment platform and, in turn, being able to withdraw from that platform. On this basis, Im 
satisfied this was a transaction in line with section 75. There was an exchange of money in 
return for certain contractual promises.
Finance also isnt defined in the Act. An ordinary definition would be to provide funds to do 
something. In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004], Miss Justice Gloster said 
in a passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed, The phrase to finance approaching 
the matter in a common sense way must mean provide financial accommodation in respect 
of  A credit card issuer clearly provides financial accommodation to its cardholder, in 
relation to his purchases from suppliers, because he is given time to pay for his purchase 
under the terms of the credit card agreement.
Applying that ordinary definition here, if Mr C hadnt used his credit card agreement to pay 
for these transactions, he would have had to find cash from his own resources to fund them. 
So, its clear that the transactions were financed by the agreement.
a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction;
Mr Cs claim is that F was a scam which tricked him into depositing these funds by 
misleading him about how/whether he could withdraw his funds.
If F gave Mr C untrue information to trick him into making the transactions, his claim would 
be for misrepresentation. Or, if they made binding promises to him as part of the 
transactions and went on to breach these, that would amount to a claim for breach of 
contract. Im satisfied there is a relevant claim to be considered here, which clearly relates to 
the transactions Mr C made.
but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
The cash price here is the value of the deposit-transaction; its both the consideration and 
subject matter of the contract. And each transaction falls within the values set out above.
Im aware M&S says section 75 doesnt apply as the transactions funded Mr Cs account 
rather than paying for the services of F, so theyre more akin to cash withdrawals on the 
card. But I dont agree that loading funds onto a trading account is necessarily just a transfer 
of money between accounts. It may also have been paid in return for something. In this case 
F has made contractual promises in exchange for the deposit. Section 75 doesnt use the 
term purchase of goods or services, nor is there anything within the Act that would exclude 
the present type of transaction.
Each payment was made as a result of an elaborate deception that occurred subsequent to 
simply the initial deposit-transaction. F was trying to convince Mr C that he was profiting from 
the investment and therefore had reason to expect better returns if he paid more. So, Im 
satisfied each deposit should be considered as a separate deposit-transaction under section 
75. Overall, for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that section 75 applies to these 
transactions. Ill therefore go on to consider whether Miss A has a valid claim for 
misrepresentation and/or breach of contract.Misrepresentation
For the claim to succeed on this basis, it needs to be shown that F made a false statement 
of fact which induced Mr C into entering the agreement.
Mr C says he was told hed be able to withdraw his money easily and quickly, within a few 
weeks of starting trading. But when he tried to do so, he was then told hed only be able to 
make a withdrawal when he reached a certain trading turnover. And this hadnt been put 
to him previously, verbally or in writing.
Having reviewed Mr Cs written submissions and calls with out service, I find his account of 
what he was told to be credible and persuasive. Hes provided a detailed account along with 
records from F to support this. And Ive found further evidence which backs this up.
F seem to no longer exist, but Ive been able to access a historic version of the website from 
around when Mr C made the payments. The terms relating to withdrawing funds refer to it 
being a fast process, which can take up to 3 business days to approve and process the 
request, and up to 5 business days for the funds to show in your account. This supports 
the account Mr C has given about what he was told, which Ive found to be plausible and 
persuasive.
When Mr C requested the withdrawal, he says this was the first time he was told about the 
required trading turnover. F said there were terms connected to the bonuses they paid when 
he made his deposits. According to the account information Mr C has provided from F, he 
deposited £10,000 (£7,000 from his M&S credit card) and they paid bonuses totalling 
£16,271.
Ive checked this against Fs historic website. Whilst this requirement isnt set out in the 
standard terms and conditions, or the section titled withdrawal methods, Ive found a 
separate section for terms and conditions for bonuses. This sets out that when a bonus is 
paid, an amount of points must be accrued, calculated in relation to trading volume, before 
any withdrawals can be made. It gives the example that if a bonus of €100 is paid, a trading 
volume of €1,250,000 must be reached. Given the bonuses Mr C received, hed need to 
reach a trading volume exceeding €200,000,000 before any withdrawals could be made.
On this basis, Im persuaded that what F told Mr C about his ability to make withdrawals was 
false. And Im persuaded that this induced him into making the deposits. Had he been told 
about the actual withdrawal terms, I consider it very unlikely he would have made these 
payments, given how much hed need to trade before any possibility of withdrawing.
Id also point out that there is a wider misrepresentation F may well have made: that they 
were a legitimate trading platform. The way in which they conducted themselves calls this 
into question. I base this not only on what Mr C has told us about his experience, but on 
further information Ive found about F. This includes the warning issued by the FCA that F 
was operating within the UK without being regulated as required. This is a sign it was acting 
with dishonest intentions.
Additionally, Im mindful that the account information suggests F paid a substantial £16,721 
on top of the £10,000 Mr C paid into the account. And also that, within around six weeks, he 
was able to generate a balance exceeding £40,000 (albeit a balance that F wouldnt allow 
him to withdraw). This seems an unlikely amount of profit to be able to generate given the 
amount Mr C paid in.
Ive seen some limited information from M&S suggesting Mr C was offered a £3,000 refund 
by F  far less than he deposited, and far less than the balance F allegedly held for him. It 
also appears this wasnt paid, so I dont know if it was a genuine offer. Im therefore not 
persuaded this is enough to suggest F was in fact operating legitimately, given the evidence 
to the contrary. And it doesnt detract from my findings about Fs misrepresentation of the 
withdrawal terms.Ive also found reviews online for F of other customers reporting issues similar to those Mr C 
experienced  i.e. being prevented from using or withdrawing their funds. All of this, along 
with the stringent terms for withdrawing funds (which Ive found were misrepresented), 
strongly suggests that, in practical terms, Mr C would never have been able to make money. 
Whereas F represented itself as company offering the opportunity to make money through 
investing. Again, if Mr C had realised that F werent operating legitimately, there seems little 
doubt that he wouldnt have paid these funds. So Fs misrepresentation about this inducted 
him into the contract.
Breach of contract
On similar grounds, it seems there may well have been a breach of contract compared to Fs 
contractual and written promises, as its unclear that it ever legitimately traded Mr Cs funds. 
That said, Im mindful that the onerous withdrawal term was set out within the wider terms 
and conditions F had on its website which could reasonably be seen to form part of the 
contract. So, as the grounds for a misrepresentation claim are stronger, my conclusion is 
that M&S should meet Mr Cs claim for misrepresentation.
Putting things right
Im satisfied Mr C has a claim for misrepresentation on the grounds that F misrepresented 
that he could readily access the money he deposited and earn a profit from his deposit 
transactions. And that, but for these misrepresentations, he wouldnt have made these 
deposits. So M&S should put him back in the position he would have been in had he not 
made these payments. As Ive seen no credits from F into Mr Cs credit card account, and 
hes confirmed that hes not received anything back from F, it appears hes due a full refund 
of his payments.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right, Marks & Spencer 
Financial Services plc should refund Mr Cs payments to F (less any amounts hes received 
directly from F), plus 8% simple interest per year from the dates of payment to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman