DRN-4441393
The complaint
Miss T complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) failed to provide 
correspondence about her pension for three years. She feels this has led to a financial loss. 
Shes also unhappy about the way Aviva handled her complaint. 
What happened
Miss T has a pension with Aviva. 
Aviva said it posted annual statements to Miss T on 15 October 2019, 16 November 2020 
and 30 September 2021. It said that it re-sent the 2021 statement on 9 June 2022. It said it 
also posted a statement on 26 October 2022.
Miss T called Aviva on 19 June 2023. She said she hadnt received any documentation from 
it since 2019. And that she was concerned about whether Aviva held the correct contact 
details for her. Miss T said she was concerned that without being sent any information, she 
couldnt act on it. She was also worried that her pension may have been changed without 
her having the chance to comment. 
During the 19 June 2023 call, Miss T said that she didnt know she had the option to switch 
funds. She felt shed not been given the option of doing this. She felt Aviva was responsible 
for this. And that it should put right any financial losses shed suffered. Miss T also said she 
wanted to be called back.
Aviva issued its final response to the complaint on 20 June 2023. It said that Miss Ts 
complaint was that she was annoyed about the volatility of her pension fund. Aviva provided 
Miss T with the fund factsheets for the funds shed chosen to invest in. And explained that 
their performance was linked to market factors outside of its control. Aviva said that if Miss T 
wasnt sure if the funds she was invested in were still suitable for her, she could switch 
funds. It also provided Miss T with her current fund value. 
Miss T called Aviva on 26 June 2023 as she was still unhappy with the performance of her 
funds. She said shed not received any documentation from Aviva since 2019. And that she 
was unhappy with the way Aviva had worded its final response  including the use of the 
word annoyed for the way she felt about recent fund performance. 
Miss T called Aviva on 28 June 2023. She felt the final response letter was unprofessional. 
And was unhappy with the agent she spoke to. She asked to speak to a manager. She said 
the same agent called her on 14 July 2023, so shed expressed dissatisfaction about this. 
Aviva issued a further final response on 14 July 2023 as Miss T remained unhappy with the 
performance of her pension. And hadnt liked the tone of the initial final response letter. 
Aviva apologised for this. 
Aviva also addressed the fact that it hadnt called Miss T after it had investigated her 
previous complaint. It apologised for this. It said it had resolved the complaint out of hours, 
and didnt want to disturb her. But said itd included contact details that wouldve allowed 
Miss T to discuss the complaint if shed wanted to. 
Aviva also noted that Miss T had said shed had no opportunity to make changes to her 
funds as shed not received correspondence over the last three years. It said it used a third 
party to post the documentation it sent to its customers. And although it was sorry Miss T 
hadnt received anything, it said that if shed been concerned about this, she couldve 
contacted it. Aviva said it was Miss Ts responsibility to monitor fund fluctuations and to 
switch funds if she wasnt happy with the ones she was invested in. It also noted that Miss T 
could view her policy online if she wanted to. And that its website contained daily fund 
valuations. 
Aviva also said that although Miss T had been unhappy with the explanations it had 
previously provided her with, a manager had reviewed the complaint to see if there was 
anything further it could do. But that after that review, had felt that there wasnt anything it 
could add. 
Miss T called Aviva again on 21 July 2023 as she felt shed not been listened to. And that 
Aviva hadnt covered all of her complaint points in its final response. She said that Aviva 
called her back on 25 July 2023 to deal with her complaint, but shed still had no contact 
from a manager. Miss T said Aviva told her shed get the call back shed requested.
Miss T asked for a list of available funds for her to invest in. Aviva sent this on 28 July 2023. 
Miss T said an Aviva complaints manager called her on 3 August 2023 to discuss her 
complaint.
Miss T brought her complaint to this service on 4 August 2023. She still felt that Aviva had 
caused her a financial loss. 
Aviva issued a further final response letter on 15 August 2023. Regarding Miss Ts complaint 
about fund performance, it said that her pension had actually grown in value over the period 
from 2019 to date. 
Aviva acknowledged how concerning it mustve been for Miss T to not receive letters about 
her pension, and therefore feeling that shed been unable to manage her pension. But said 
that it had no evidence that it hadnt sent the annual statements. Aviva also confirmed that 
the annual statements itd sent hadnt included any opportunities to prevent Miss Ts fund 
value dropping. It said it wasnt authorised to give investment advice and that it couldn't 
change Miss Ts investments. It said it was Miss Ts responsibility to monitor and review the 
suitability of her investments. And that she could do this by phone, email mailbox, website 
and post. 
Aviva also acknowledged that Miss T had felt the previous complaint handler had done a 
'shoddy job'. It accepted that the first final response letter hadnt addressed all of her 
complaint points. But felt these had now been addressed. It apologised for the earlier 
omissions. It also addressed further aspects of the way it had handled Miss Ts complaint.  
Aviva sent Miss T £75 compensation to apologise for not dealing with her complaint in full in 
the first instance. It also sent her copies of her annual statements from 2019 onwards. 
Our investigator didnt think that Aviva needed to do anything further. He said it had provided 
evidence that itd sent all of the annual statements to the correct address. And that itd 
therefore fulfilled its responsibility. He said he couldnt look at the complaint handling aspects 
of Miss Ts complaint, as it wasnt an activity regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Miss T didnt agree with our investigator. She said that as shed not received any paperwork, 
she couldnt make any informed decisions about where her pension funds were invested. 
She felt that Aviva hadnt addressed the issues shed faced. And that it hadnt considered 
the consequences and the impact theyd had on her. She felt Aviva had failed in its duty of 
care to her as its customer. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing for Miss T. Ill 
explain the reasons for my decision.
Id first like to acknowledge that part of Miss Ts complaint was about Avivas complaint 
handling. As our investigator has already noted, this service doesnt have the power to 
consider complaints around complaint handling. So I wont comment further on this aspect of 
her complaint. 
I next considered if Aviva did what it shouldve done. 
Did Aviva do what it shouldve done?
Aviva told this service that it sent Miss T her annual statements by post, to the correct 
address. It has provided this service with copies of all of the statements Miss T said she 
didnt get. Therefore Im satisfied that the annual statements were sent on the dates detailed 
in the background section of my decision. 
I acknowledge that Miss T feels that Aviva is responsible for her not receiving her annual 
statements. And that it mustve breached its duty of care to her as its customer. But as Aviva 
has provided evidence that it sent annual statements correctly, I cant fairly agree with Miss 
T that it failed its duties. And I cant fairly hold it responsible for Miss T not receiving the 
correctly addressed letters. I say this because Aviva isnt liable for items lost in transit. And it 
can re-issue anything on request.
I also acknowledge that Miss T considers that as she didnt receive her annual statements, 
and therefore didnt know how her funds were performing, she held Aviva responsible for 
any fund losses. But I cant reasonably hold it responsible. 
I say this for a number of reasons. Firstly, as I noted earlier, I dont hold Aviva responsible 
for her not receiving the annual statements as Im satisfied it sent them to her when it was 
supposed to. Secondly, Miss T couldve contacted Aviva for an update on her pension at any 
time. And if shed been unhappy with the performance, she couldve made a decision to 
change her holdings. So I consider that Miss T couldve checked the performance of her 
investments, and then potentially decided to change how her funds were invested if she was 
unhappy with their performance over the period in question. And I cant reasonably hold 
Aviva responsible for the fact that Miss T didnt take any such actions. 
Im sorry that Miss T felt that she hasnt been listened to. Ive carefully considered all of her 
complaint points. But Ive not found any evidence that Aviva did anything wrong. Or that it 
failed in its duties to her. 
While I can see that Miss T was concerned that shed possibly missed out on an opportunity from Aviva to protect her fund value, that wasnt the case. As Aviva has said, it simply 
administers the pension. And isnt able to give Miss T advice on her investments, or make 
any investment decisions for her. Its her responsibility to decide how she wants to invest her 
pension.
Although I acknowledge that Miss T didnt receive her annual statements from 2019, I cant 
fairly hold Aviva responsible for this. And, in any event, Miss T had a number of other 
options for accessing information about her pension if she wanted to know anything.  
I acknowledge that Miss T said she only realised that she might be missing paperwork from 
Aviva when a colleague told her theyd received something. But if at any point shed wanted 
any information about her plan she couldve contacted Aviva. And if Miss T felt she wanted 
to consider her investments at any time she couldve also contacted Aviva. 
I appreciate Miss T has very limited internet access. So I understand that its hard for her to 
use all of the forms of contact Aviva offers. But Aviva has made it clear that she can contact 
it by phone or letter, as well as other methods which require the internet. So Im satisfied it 
has provided enough ways for her to get in touch with it.
As Ive detailed above, Ive no evidence that Aviva failed to fulfil its responsibilities in sending 
annual statements. So I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman