DRN-3964751
The complaint
Mr J complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax are continuing to send him bill 
payment reminders for his credit card when hes asked them not to.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
Halifax send text messages reminding their customers the bill is due if no payment has been 
received around a week before the payment is due.
Mr J received one of these text messages, and asked Halifax to stop sending them  but 
they said they couldnt. Mr J asked about removing his mobile number from their systems 
but realised this would cause him to not receive the One Time Passcode (OTP) messages 
when online shopping. So, hes kept his mobile number with Halifax, but complained about 
them not stopping the bill payment reminder messages.
Halifax said the text alert was issued as part of their regulatory requirement and was a 
friendly reminder Mr J had a payment due on his credit card. They added as this is a 
mandatory requirement there is no opt out option and will only be issued if the relevant 
criteria has been met. Halifax said the text alert was triggered on 30 May 2022 because no 
payment had been received and was due around a week later on 6 June 2022.
Unhappy with this Mr J asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so, but 
overall didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong.
Mr J didnt agree with this, in summary he said:
Halifax told him they had to send this text, but he felt them sending the paper 
statement fulfilled their obligations of notifying him of the payment reminder
Halifax need his mobile number for OTP messages, but theyre using his mobile 
number in a way he doesnt want
He feels Halifax is ignoring his rights under General Data Protection Regulations 
(GDPR) as hes asked them not to send payment reminders but they continue to do 
so
As Mr J didnt accept our Investigators outcome, the complaints been passed to me to 
decide.
Before doing so, our service asked Halifax to explain what regulations they were relying on 
to justify sending these text messages. Initially, they told us there were regulations from the 
Competitions and Markets Authority (CMA)  which when reviewing what CMA said in their 
report only related to current accounts, not credit cards. We challenged them, saying this 
appeared to be incorrect information, and they provided a further reply after speaking to their 
legal department. Ive talked in detail about the last round of information Halifax have 
provided below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it clear to Mr J that generally its not my role to tell Halifax theyre required to 
change their procedures. So, I cant make them stop sending the text messages to Mr J as 
he may want. Ill go on to explain the regulations Halifax have now told us theyre relying on 
 as well as my thoughts on whether Mr J has agreed to his data being used in this way. I do 
also need to make it clear my role is to decide, taking into account all of the information 
available to me, whether theyve treated Mr J fairly and reasonably.
Halifax have explained their rationale for continuing to use Mr Js mobile number for alerts. 
Theyve said paragraph MM5 of The Lending Standards Board (LSB) says:
Firms offering credit card products should, in line with industry Credit Card Market Study 
information remedies, have in place processes to ensure:
a. Customers are prepared to make timely and informed decisions about the options open to 
them when a promotional rate comes to an end.
b. Borrowing prompts help customers to take account of their spending and make informed 
decisions about how they use their credit card and avoid incurring over limit charges.
Halifax said The Credit Card Market Study (CCMS) information remedies conducted by LSB 
gives more detail about how alerts should be sent to consumers  and says:
1. If a firm offers a credit card product with a promotional rate, the customer should receive a 
standalone written reminder of the expiry date of their offer.
c. The expectation is that, where the appropriate contact details are held, firms will send the 
information digitally.
And, regarding messages about borrowing, says:
2. Where a credit card customer crosses a threshold between 80% and 95% of their 
available credit card limit, they should be contacted to alert them to this and to remind them 
if charges will be made for exceeding it.
c. Contact with the customer should be made via a digital channel. Eligible customers should 
be automatically opted-in to the alert, but provided with the ability to opt-out, should they 
wish to do so, at the firms discretion.
Halifax added that the Information for Practitioners guidance sets out some helpful 
explanations on the types of communication channels they can use. And page 36 of this 
report refers to when a promotional period is due to come to an end:There is an expectation that, where the appropriate contact details are held, firms will send 
information digitally. However, firms may wish to consider whether the reminder could be 
delivered to customers via a range of channels, including written, digital, and via SMS  
When deciding the form of communication, firms should also consider what is most 
appropriate for the customer, based on any information held by the firm
Finally, Halifax said its also agreed practice between the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA 
 who are the regulator of the financial services industry), and members of the UK Cards 
Association (of which Halifax are a member) that members would provide prompts to 
customers to help manage their spending. They said this was contained in the FCAs Credit 
card market study on pages 63-64 at paragraph 8.15.
A copy of these documents will be provided to Mr J with this provisional decision, so he can 
review them.
When answering his complaint, Halifax said it was part of their regulatory requirements they 
had to send this payment reminder  and there was no opt-out option.
Although much of the information Halifax have referred to above talks about sending alerts 
digitally, none of them appear to place a regulatory requirement (as Halifax told Mr J) in his 
specific circumstances. The final response letter from Halifax doesnt say Mr J had a 
promotional balance expiring, nor have Halifax said he was near his credit limit. The only 
reason given to Mr J for sending payment alerts is because he was within a week of his 
payment due date.
Given this is the second time our service have asked Halifax to explain what regulations 
theyre relying on, it seems appropriate I consider the complaint at this point.
As things stand, I think its fair to say the information Halifax have pointed to fully encourage 
them to use digital prompts where possible. And, I think its also fair to say the information 
says Halifax can choose whether they want their customers to be able to opt-in or opt-out of 
this.
So, I cant say Halifax at face value are wrong for sending Mr J text messages, nor for not 
offering him the option of opting out. But Ive not been persuaded by Halifax there is a 
regulatory requirement for them to do so. This is because none of the evidence provided 
says theyre required to send alerts when someone is within a week of their payment due 
date but havent made a payment yet. As far as I can see so far this means it is, effectively, 
Halifaxs choice about whether to send these alerts or not  which is not what they told Mr J 
or our service.
Im aware Mr J also specifically says he doesnt want Halifax to use his data in this way. But 
the terms and conditions of the account Mr J uses with Halifax says:
If you provide your mobile phone number or email address, we will register you for our free 
account alerts service so we can send you messages to tell you about certain activity on 
your account. We will use the most recent contact details we hold for you. 
This means by continuing to use Halifaxs credit card, Mr J is accepting the terms and 
conditions of the account  meaning he is accepting, albeit not willingly, Halifax can and will 
use his data in this way.I cant decide if Halifax have broken any rules under GDPR, only the 
Information Commissioners Office can do that. But, as Halifax tell Mr J in the terms and 
conditions this is how theyll use his data, I cant reasonably say theyve done anything 
wrong in sending him these alerts.
To summarise then, I dont think Halifax have done anything wrong by sending Mr J these 
alerts, nor can I say theyve breached GDPR or acted unfairly by not allowing him to opt-out. 
But Halifaxs explanation of it being a regulatory requirement for them to send these text 
messages isnt demonstrated by the evidence theyve given me. So I think Mr J has been 
caused distress and inconvenience as a result of Halifax providing incorrect information. I 
think a fair and reasonable outcome then would be for Halifax to pay Mr J £200 
compensation to reflect this.
Responses to my provisional decision
Halifax said they accepted my recommendations, and if Mr J accepts the outcome, theyll 
pay the redress into an account of his choosing.
Mr J didnt reply by the deadline set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Halifax accepted my recommendations, and Mr J didnt reply, Ive seen no reason to 
change the original decision I reached  and still think £200 compensation is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I partially uphold this complaint and require Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax to pay Mr J £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman