DRN-4352612
The complaint
Miss Ms complaint about London and Country Mortgages Ltd (L&C) relates to the time 
taken to process and complete her mortgage application and also the service she received.
What happened
In June 2022, Miss M instructed L&C, a mortgage broker, to advise her regarding a re-
mortgage application. L&C did so, and on 29 June made an application on her behalf to a 
lender. The lender issued a mortgage offer on 14 December 2022. 
In the intervening period Miss M was asked to obtain and supply information and 
documentation to L&C so that the lender could assess her application. Miss M also says that 
during the application process she made repeated enquiries to L&C and on occasions 
received no response.
L&C have accepted that it had provided some poor service in failing to notice that Miss M 
wasnt responding to messages sent to her through the chatter function on its mortgage 
portal. Further, L&C accepted there had been a delay of around 10 days, in early November, 
in it uploading one of her documents to the lender. 
In recognition of this poor service L&C offered Miss M £150 by way of an apology and for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss M was unhappy with L&Cs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator initially thought that L&Cs offer of 
compensation was insufficient and recommended it be increased, but after receiving further 
representations from L&C about the periods of delay, was satisfied that L&Cs initial offer of 
£150 was in all the circumstances fair and reasonable.
Miss M didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the evidence provided the following timeline appears to be relevant.
29 June  the mortgage application was submitted
7 July  a case manager (CM) from L&C notified Miss M through the portal that she would 
need to check which documents the lender required her to upload
11 July  a CM tried to call Miss M but could not get through and left a voicemail for her
18 July  L&C sent Miss M a chatter message enquiring about the documentation 
requested
26 July  L&C repeated their 18 July request
2 August  L&C repeated their 18 July request again
2 August - Miss M received an SMS message to say there was an update on the portal. She 
then used the chatter function to upload some of the documentation which had been 
requested
8 August  Miss M advised L&C she was having issues obtaining some tax documentation
26 August  L&C enquired of Miss M about the outstanding documentation
30 August  Miss M confirmed to L&C that she had uploaded the requested documents, 
although the documents relating to her tax affairs were not correct as she had provided her 
tax calculations but not the corresponding Tax Year Overviews originally requested
14 September  L&C were in receipt of all documentation requested by the lender
16 September  L&C attempted to upload the documentation Miss M had supplied to the 
lender but were unable to as there was an IT issue on the lenders part
21 September  L&C successfully uploaded all documentation to the lender
3 October  the lender requested further information and down valued the subject property
4 October a CM called Miss M explaining that she should choose another mortgage 
product or reduce the size of her loan as a result of the property down valuation
7 October  Miss M advised L&C she wished to reduce her loan amount and would require 
more time to raise the funds for the balance
10 October  a CM contacted Miss M enquiring about the outstanding documentation who 
explained she had placed matters on the back burner although still wanted to proceed her 
application
25 October  Miss M was advised by L&C that the lender wanted a recent payslip and proof 
of her rental income
28 October  as the lender said it had had no contact from L&C Miss M submitted the 
outstanding documentation directly to them
31 October  the lender made a request of L&C for a response and the outstanding 
documentation and in turn L&C asked Miss M
3 November  L&C contacted the lender to be told that no documentation had been received 
and so L&C uploaded the documentation they held
4 November  L&C asked Miss M for her payslip from her new employment and 
documentation from her own company as it was required for part of the lenders affordability 
assessment
7 November  Miss M sent her payslip to L&C and although received, when internally 
passed on the recipient didnt receive it
18 November  the lender requested Miss Ms payslip again and C&M provided it 
29 November  the lender made a request for further information which C&M passed on to 
Miss M
14 December  the lender issued a mortgage offer
It is an obvious point, but nevertheless one worth noting, that all lenders require an applicant 
to provide proof of earnings and documentation to support each mortgage application. A 
broker has no influence over what documentation might be sought by a lender, or indeed 
when it might be requested. That is a matter for each lender, and the nature type an extent 
of such documentation required can vary from lender to lender. 
In Miss Ms case the lender in question operated what they call a Right First Time Policy 
meaning that L&C were unable to submit documentation in a piecemeal fashion. They were 
required to collect from Miss M all the necessary documentation the lender requested and 
submit it in one go. Naturally, it was open to the lender to request any further information and 
documentation it thought necessary to enable them to process the application.  
In Miss Ms case, from the point of application to the issue of the mortgage offer, a period of 
almost six months elapsed, which is clearly a long time. However, whether in the 
circumstances which pertain here, it is in fact unreasonable, requires some careful analysis.From 29 June to 2 August, a period of just over a month, L&C were waiting for 
documentation from Miss M. This was documentation requested by the lender the details of 
which were set out on the portal. It appears Miss M was unaware of this and although as a 
fact L&C provided her with notification, I think it could have done more, as indeed it 
eventually did on 2 August by sending her an SMS to prompt her to look on the portal itself. 
That said, L&C left a voicemail message for Miss M on 11 July which shortens the delay 
period. L&C have accepted that this is a period where its level of service fell down. I know 
L&C have argued that it chased Miss M during July, but this was at a time she was unaware 
of the chatter facility which could have easily been brought to her attention once more.
I think the next period of concern is that to the 14 September. It is during this period that L&C 
were waiting for documentation from Miss M which included her Tax Year Overviews. L&C 
did explain this to her initially and so when the documents she did provide were not correct, 
it naturally led to a delay until they could be provided. That cannot be the fault of L&C. As the 
lender operated the Right First Time Policy the 14 September was in fact the first time L&C 
could upload the documents, so I cant attribute this period of delay to L&C.
Next is the period from 14 September to 3 October. This was when the lender was 
assessing Miss Ms application. There is a five-day period of delay caused by what appears 
to be a failure or problem with the lenders IT system failure which L&C cannot be blamed 
for. The balance of that period is a reasonable period for the lender to process the 
application. 
The next period is from 4 October to 7 November. During this period Miss M was advised of 
the property down valuation and Miss M choosing to place matters on hold whilst she 
accumulated additional funds to allow her to reduce the size of the mortgage she needed. 
She was also required to obtain and provide further information in relation to her payslip and 
company documentation. During this period when L&C were asked to provide information, 
they did, and I cant see any evidence of delay on their part.
From 7 November to 18 November there is a period of delay as L&C misplaced the 
documentation Miss M had provided, but thereafter having provided it to the lender, and the 
lender requesting yet more information from Miss M, the mortgage offer was issued in a 
reasonable time frame. 
Putting things right
So, although undoubtedly it did take a long time for the mortgage offer to be issued from the 
date of application, in my view L&C have provided reasonable explanations provided as to 
why that was. L&C has accepted that it didnt get things right in certain areas, and because 
of that offered Miss M with £150 which I think is reasonable.
My final decision
London and Country Mortgages Ltd has already made an offer to pay Miss M £150 to settle 
this complaint, and I think that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that it should 
pay Miss M £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Jonathan WillisOmbudsman