DRN-2573327
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited trading as 
Shepherds Friendly handled his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr R took out an income protection policy with Shepherds Friendly via a broker in 2015. The 
policy was designed to provide a monthly benefit in the event of Mr R becoming 
incapacitated and unable to work. Mr R made a claim on those grounds in March 2020. 
Having done so, and on 20 March 2020, Shepherds Friendly sent Mr R a claim form to 
complete and a list of supporting documents that he needed to provide. It received Mr Rs 
completed claim form on 25 March 2020, alongside some of the documentation itd 
requested too. 
However, when assessing what had been received Shepherds Friendly noticed one of the 
requested documents (a Med3 certificate) hadnt been provided by Mr R. It also saw that Mr 
R wasnt earning enough to support the maximum level of benefit the policy was set up to 
provide. So, it contacted Mr R on the same day to request the Med3 certificate, to ask him to 
complete a variation form, and to advise itd requested some additional information from his 
GP.
Mr Rs completed variation form was received by Shepherds Friendly on 31 March 2020. His 
Med3 certificate was received on 2 April 2020, and Mr Rs GP provided its information on 3 
April 2020. But on 4 April 2020 Mr R complained and withdrew his claim shortly afterwards.
Mr R complained that Shepherds Friendly had taken too long to assess his claim. He said 
hed been caused both financial and emotional distress, and Shepherds Friendly had failed 
to fulfil its obligations under the policy. Mr R asked for his premiums to be refunded because 
of that, and raised concerns about the sale of the policy too. 
Shepherds Friendly didnt uphold the complaint. It said that at the point Mr R had complained 
it had only been aware of his claim for 11 working days, during which time it had been in 
regular communication with him. Shepherds Friendly said there had been no unnecessary 
delays in assessing the claim, and it had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when requesting supporting evidence. It also said Mr Rs concerns about the sale of 
the policy would need to be directed to the broker that sold it.
Unhappy with that response, Mr R referred his complaint to this service and one of our 
investigators looked at what had happened. She thought Shepherds Friendlys attempts to 
validate Mr Rs claim were in line with the terms and conditions of his policy, and she didnt 
identify any avoidable delays in its handling of matters. So, she didnt recommend Mr Rs 
complaint be upheld.
Shepherds Friendly agreed with our investigators opinion, but Mr R didnt. He disputed the 
timeline of events and reiterated his concerns about what had happened. As no agreement 
was reached the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will not be upholding Mr Rs complaint for largely the same reasons as the 
investigator before me. I will now explain why:
In line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines, Shepherds Friendly has a 
responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly, and it must not reject them 
unreasonably. 
It isnt unusual for an insurer to expect a policy holder to evidence their claim by 
providing supporting information. And the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy 
reflect that Shepherds Friendly will determine claims based on the evidence provided 
to it:
We will determine whether you are incapacitated such that you are not able to 
perform the essential duties of your own occupation based on the evidence you 
provide and in consultation with our medical and employment advisers. In cases of 
doubt the opinion of our adviser(s) will be final.
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy set out a list of the different things a 
policyholder will be expected to do at the point of making a claim. I wont recite that 
list here, but much of it centers around a policy holder providing evidence to help 
Shepherds Friendly assess their claim. 
When Mr R made his claim, Shepherds Friendly told him what evidence he needed 
to provide. I dont think that request, or any requests it went on to make afterwards, 
was unfair or unreasonable. And I am satisfied that Shepherds Friendly was acting in 
line with the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy when doing so. 
I appreciate Mr R disputes some of the timeline in this complaint, but Ive been 
unable to find any evidence of Shepherds Friendly either delaying matters or failing 
to deal with the claim promptly. Like our investigator, I too am satisfied that whilst his 
claim was open, Shepherds Friendly was both prompt in its requests for supporting 
evidence and had begun to assess the evidence it would have needed to decide Mr 
Rs claim.
No decision was made on the claim because Mr R went onto withdraw it. But looking 
at the action Shepherds Friendly took during the limited time the claim was open, I 
have seen no evidence of it acting outside of the terms and conditions of the policy 
and I cannot agree that it was in breach of it.
Shepherds Friendly provided Mr R with the opportunity for it to commence reviewing 
his claim after he withdrew it. Mr R refused this offer, and while I acknowledge his 
reasons for doing so, I think this offer was fair and reasonable.
It is for these reasons that I will not be directing Shepherds Friendly to take any action. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I have not addressed any of the concerns Mr R has about the 
sale of his policy because it was sold by a broker, not Shepherds Friendly. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman