DRN-2776281
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1999. Mr and Mrs S paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It was initially set up to cover 
Mr S only, but shortly after was adjusted to give joint cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Ss PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage application had a section for PPI. It offered them the choice to take 
out or turn down a policy. The option to apply for PPI was ticked, the option to turn it down 
was left blank, and Mr and Mrs S then checked their eligibility and chose what kind of cover 
they wanted. And they signed the application to confirm their choices. Ive not seen any 
wider problems with Lloyds sales process from the time, nor anything which makes me think 
that Mr and Mrs S were misled into buying PPI here. So I think its most likely that Lloyds 
made Mr and Mrs S aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to 
take it at the time.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, so it had to check it was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr and Mrs S were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mr and Mrs Ss work benefits 
and offered them more comprehensive cover, especially for when their benefits reduced to 
just a fraction of their normal pay or ran out entirely. It also meant they could effectively 
protect any savings or endowments they had and use them for other things, instead of 
potentially needing to sacrifice one asset to save another. And the endowment policies were 
for different things than the PPI and were not an equivalent alternative.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ss family may have been happy to help, but there was always the 
chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this mortgage was Mr and Mrs Ss 
responsibility, not anyone elses, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if Lloyds had 
advised them to rely on other individuals to pay it. I also understand Mr and Mrs S felt stable 
in their situation, but accidents, illnesses, and redundancies can and do happen, even in 
situations that feel stable. Further, this mortgage was a significant, long-term commitment  
there was no guarantee that Mr and Mrs S would have the same work situation or savings in 
the many years to come. And ultimately, if Mr and Mrs S fell behind on their mortgage they 
couldve lost their home. Overall, it looks like the PPI could have really been useful for them 
in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs S chose to take out the policy, which 
indicates they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr and Mrs S werent 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful 
for them in case something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how 
much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and 
Mrs S could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better 
information was likely to have put them off taking out the cover.
Finally, I understand there may have been an issue with a previous PPI policy which didnt 
get cancelled properly. This decision is about the sale of the 1999 policy, rather than the 
administration of the previous one, so Ive not made any findings on that point here. As 
I understand, Lloyds have offered to refund the duplicate premiums from the previous policy. 
If Mr and Mrs S have any problems getting the refund, or if they disagree with the refund 
amount, please could they let our investigator know  we may be able to look at that as a 
separate case to this one.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about the sale of 
their 1999 PPI policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman