DRN-2331192
The complaint
Mr P complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a cancellation claim he 
made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the background to this complaint, so the below is only a summary 
of what happened. 
In September 2019 Mr P booked a holiday. It was due to take place on 6 May 2020, but on 
24 April 2020 Mr Ps travel provider cancelled his booking due to the covid-19 pandemic. 
The travel provider gave Mr P a refund credit note. It could be redeemed against another 
booking until the end of March 2021, and it advised that Mr P would become eligible for a 
cash refund from the travel provider if it hadnt been redeemed by that date. 
Mr P submitted a claim for a cash refund on his travel insurance, but his policy didnt cover 
recoverable costs so UKI declined it and said Mr P hadnt suffered a loss in light of the credit 
note from his travel provider. 
Mr P disputed UKIs position and said hed planned on cancelling his trip in light of a recent 
bereavement anyway. He also explained he was concerned about the level of service UKI 
had provided. But UKI maintained its decision to decline Mr Ps claim. It did however, 
acknowledge its service could have been better at times and paid Mr P £150 in 
compensation to reflect that. 
Our investigator didnt think UKI had declined the claim unreasonably. They said Mr Ps 
policy didnt cover costs which could be recovered elsewhere, his travel provider was 
responsible for any refund in light of the cancelled holiday and, the travel provider had 
already issued a refund credit note. Our investigator considered what might have happened 
if Mr P had made a claim because of bereavement, but said UKI would have still been 
entitled to decline it based on the policy terms and the credit note already received. They 
also said the £150 compensation UKI had paid was a fair and reasonable reflection of the 
trouble and upset its service failings had caused. 
Mr P disagreed with our investigator and maintained that UKI should have accepted his 
claim. So as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has set out his concerns at length. I acknowledge how strongly he feels about things, 
but my decision will only focus on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint. That means I may not address every point or argument raised. 
The declined claim
In line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines, UKI must handle claims both promptly 
and fairly, and should not reject them unreasonably. 
Mr Ps travel insurance provided cover for trips that needed to be cancelled before theyd 
taken place, for a variety of different reasons. However, the terms of the policy explained 
that UKI would not pay for Recoverable costs. And they were defined as Any cost that you 
can recover from elsewhere. 
Mr P has already been given a refund credit note by his travel provider. The credit note is 
valid until 31 March 2021, it is fully ABTA/ATOL protected, and it can be redeemed in full or 
in part against another booking. The credit note also becomes a cash refund instead if its 
not redeemed by 31 March 2021.  
Mr P says the credit note is of no use to him because he doesnt intend to travel, and he 
says he hasnt been able to recover his costs because he doesnt yet have a cash refund. I 
accept Mr P may not want to travel again, but his credit note isnt limited to booking travel 
only  it becomes a cash refund if not redeemed by 31 March 2021. I also appreciate that 
Mr P may not want to wait for the credit note to expire, but I dont think that means UKI 
should be held liable for paying his cash refund instead. Mr Ps holiday was cancelled by his 
travel provider and, as our investigator rightly explained, it is the travel provider that is now 
liable for any refund due. 
So, although I acknowledge Mr Ps position, given the terms of the credit note and the terms 
of his policy, I dont think it was unreasonable for UKI to conclude that Mr P could recover 
the costs of his cancelled holiday from elsewhere.
I realise that Mr P says he intended on cancelling his holiday anyway because of a 
bereavement. But the claim Mr P made, and the claim that UKI rightly considered, was in 
relation to his travel provider cancelling the holiday. However, even if Mr P had made a 
cancellation claim because of bereavement, his claim would have still been subject to the 
same terms and conditions  and they set out that UKI would not cover costs that could be 
recovered from elsewhere. 
So UKI would have still needed to take Mr Ps credit note into consideration. And for the 
reasons I have already given above, I think UKI acted reasonably in concluding that Mr P 
had been able to recover his costs from elsewhere in view of it. 
The level of service
Mr P remains unhappy with the level of service UKI provided. Again, both sides are aware of 
Mr Ps specific concerns in relation to this, so I will not recite them in this decision.
UKI has acknowledged there were times when it could have provided Mr P with a better level 
of service. For example it noted its complaint handlers didnt always pass information on 
internally, and it noted it didnt handle some of its calls with Mr P in the way it should have 
done. 
But UKI has also explained why its satisfied with the remaining aspects of service that Mr P 
is concerned about. For example its explained it wasnt able to answer the hypothetical 
questions he asked when making enquiries about his cover. And its explained it provided 
Mr P with correct information about who hed need to pursue, or contact, in relation to 
making a claim and the wider questions he had about his policy.  Compensation is designed to be a fair and proportionate reflection of the impacts a business 
failings have had on someone. It is not however, designed to be a punitive measure.
I agree that UKI could have provided a better level of service at times and I accept this 
caused Mr P upset and frustration. But I dont think UKIs service always fell short, and I 
think it provided reasonable explanations as to why it took the actions it did. So, for the 
reasons given above, I think the £150 compensation UKI has paid represents a fair and 
reasonable reflection of the impact its service failing had on Mr P. And like our investigator, I 
will not be directing UKI to increase this amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021. 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman