DRN-3269449
The complaint
Mrs V brought this complaint on behalf of herself and the Estate of Mr V. She complains that 
Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside a mortgage in 
1986. 
I know that when PPI was sold, Lloyds was trading as the Cheltenham & Gloucester Building 
Society. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Lloyds for the rest of this decision. 
What happened
Although this was a joint mortgage, only Mr V was covered by the PPI. 
Lloyds initially said that Mrs V had referred the complaint to this service too late. It later then 
agreed that we could consider it. 
Having considered the complaint, our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. Mrs V didnt agree with that view. She said that Lloyds promised her a payment by 
telephone and then went back on that offer. She thought that something didnt look right in 
respect of how Lloyds had dealt with her complaint. 
As Mrs V doesnt agree with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs V, but after considering all of the information before me, I 
havent upheld the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs V told us she wasnt present at the meeting when PPI was sold to Mr V. 
Understandably, she wasnt then able to tell us what had happened. It is also 
understandable that Lloyds doesnt have many records available in respect of this sale  
after all, it was sold 35 years ago. With that in mind, I think Lloyds was right to assume that 
the cover was sold to Mr V in a branch. I wouldnt usually expect PPI to have been sold on 
the telephone at that time, nor would it have been sold online. 
I cant know what was said during that meeting, so to help me decide whats most likely to 
have happened, Ive looked at the mortgage offer thats available from the time. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether it would have been made clear to Mr V that the 
PPI was optional. Looking at the mortgage offer, I can see that it said buildings and contents 
insurance would be arranged by Lloyds. There was no mention of PPI on the offer. So I think 
Mr V would have known it was a separate financial product. And as it was not mentioned on 
the mortgage offer, he would have reasonably known that the cover wasnt compulsory. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale, so that means Lloyds had to take reasonable steps to 
make sure the cover was suitable. To help me decide whether the cover was suitable, Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. Ive also looked at what Mrs V told us about 
Mr Vs circumstances at the point of sale. 
I can see that if Mr V had to make a claim on the PPI policy, the mortgage repayments would 
have been covered for up to 12 months if he was off sick or if he lost his job. 
Understandably, Mrs V couldnt tell us what Mr Vs redundancy and sick pay entitlement was 
from his employer. I think he would have had some cover, but I think the PPI would have 
lasted for longer than his sick pay and redundancy entitlement. 
Mrs V told us that Mr V had some other means he could have used to repay the mortgage if 
he was out of work. She didnt say what they were. But with PPI, I think Mr and Mrs V could 
have used their existing resources on their other essential expenditure at what could have 
no doubt been a very difficult time for them if Mr V was out of work. 
Ive next checked whether any of the policys exclusions or limitations would have stopped 
Mr V from being able to make a claim. Mrs V told us Mr V was in good health when the 
policy was sold. So I dont think any of the exclusions about medical conditions would have 
applied. From what we know about Mr Vs employment, I havent seen anything unusual that 
would have stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. 
Putting all of this together, I think Lloydss PPI recommendation was suitable. 
Even so, Lloyds still had to provide information about the cover so that Mr and Mrs V could 
decide whether it was a good fit for their needs. I accept its possible that Lloyds didnt 
provide all of the information it should have done. But Ive set out above how I think PPI 
could have been helpful if Mr V was out of work. So I dont think the decision to take PPI 
policy out would have been different if Lloyds had provided more or better information about 
the PPI policy. 
I know Mrs V was worried that something was not right with the way Lloyds looked at the 
complaint. I want to assure her that I have considered her dispute at some length. But for the 
reasons set out above, Im afraid I havent upheld her complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and the 
estate of Mr V to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman