DRN-4061623
The complaint
T, a limited company complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) closed its account without 
notice. 
Mr K, a director of T brings the complaint on Ts behalf.
What happened
In 2022, Lloyds closed Ts business current account after it didnt receive a response to its 
requests for information. Mr K was unhappy to find that Ts account was closed as he said 
Lloyds hadnt given him any warning.
Lloyds didnt agree that it had done anything wrong when it closed Ts account. It said it 
wrote to T twice but didnt receive a reply. Lloyds apologised and paid T £30 after it sent the 
cheque for the closing balance to the wrong address. 
The investigator considered the complaint and noted that Mr K had several conversations 
with Lloyds in the lead up to Ts account being closed. The investigator thought that Lloyds 
couldve done more to bring the imminent closure of Ts account to Mr Ks attention. The 
investigator recommended that Lloyds pay T £200 compensation. 
Mr K disagrees with the investigation outcome. Mr K says that in November 2022, T lost out 
on available contracts after he told prospective clients that T didnt have a business bank 
account. Mr K says that if Lloyds hadnt closed Ts account, he wouldve signed at least one 
business contract.
Mr K explains that the closure of Ts account meant it couldnt take on new business 
contracts for two months. Mr K says the break in account history has negatively impacted Ts 
reputation. Mr K says the gap couldve been avoided if Lloyds had contacted him before 
closing the account.
Mr K says that he was put under a great deal of stress as he had personal matters resting on 
T being able to keep trading. Mr K says the closure of Ts account affected his travel plans 
as he couldnt provide six months business bank account statements. Mr K is also 
concerned about the impact to his credit score.
Mr K wants Lloyds to reverse its decision to close Ts account and pay significant 
compensation for the distress, inconvenience, and financial loss prompted by the closure of 
the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
Although I can see that Mr K found the experience very stressful, the complainant is limited 
company T which is its own legal entity. This means I cant consider the stress that Mr K has 
felt personally. By this I include the worry Mr K felt about having an important application 
rejected, together with the disruption of his travel plans. Instead, I can only consider the 
impact that any mistake or unfairness may have had on T. 
Like the investigator, I agree that it seems Lloyds missed some opportunities to bring the 
closure of Ts account to Mr Ks notice. I dont however consider this is a situation where 
Lloyds closed Ts account without notice. Lloyds has given this service evidence that it wrote 
to T using the address it held on file. I appreciate Mr K says he didnt receive these letters as 
he was out of the country at the time and had then moved address. But this doesnt mean 
Lloyds didnt send them. So, I dont think its fair to require Lloyds to reopen Ts account.
Mr K says T lost out on contracts because of the closure of the account but hasnt provided 
direct evidence of this. Mr K refers to his average income and says friends in the same line 
of work started new projects in November 2022. But without further evidence to support this 
aspect of Ts complaint, I dont require Lloyds to pay more compensation than the 
investigator recommended. 
Mr K thinks that discrimination played a part in Lloyds decision to close Ts account but I 
havent seen evidence of this. Lloyds needs to make sure that it has up to date information 
for its business customers. As part of its regulatory obligations, Lloyds is entitled to carry out 
reviews like the one it wanted to complete with T. As Lloyds didnt receive Ts response by 
the deadline it gave, it went on to close the account. I dont find this was a racially motivated 
decision by Lloyds although I appreciate Mr K might think otherwise. 
Overall, I consider an award of £200 reflects the inconvenience to T after Lloyds missed 
some opportunities to bring the potential closure of the account to Mr Ks attention. I 
appreciate this is likely to disappoint Mr K who would like Lloyds to pay substantially more 
compensation.
Putting things right
To put things right, Lloyds should pay T £200.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require Lloyds 
Bank PLC to pay T £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman