DRN-3094504
Complaint
Ms D says that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) unfairly added charges to her 
overdraft.
Background
Ms D has also complained about the sale of a packaged bank account. But thats being dealt 
with separately and wont be forming part of this decision.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Ds concerns. He didnt think that NatWest had done 
anything wrong or treated Ms D unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Ms D disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ds 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts NatWest charged Ms D over the years were fair and reasonable, or 
proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a 
bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get 
involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at NatWests charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Ms D if it applied these interest, fees and charges to her 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Ms D was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances where NatWest didnt treat Ms D fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where NatWest continued 
charging Ms D even though it knew she was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised 
this. Having thought about everything, I dont think that NatWest treated Ms D unfairly or 
unreasonably here though. 
Ive looked through Ms Ds statements throughout the period concerned I cant see that 
NatWest ought to have steps to remove the facility from Ms D. Ms D did use her overdraft 
and she may argue the use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that she might have 
been struggling. But the account regularly received funds and was often in credit which, in 
my view, meant that it wasnt unreasonable for NatWest to conclude there was a reasonable 
prospect of the overdraft sustainably being repaid. 
And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Ms D expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions being made from the account. So I cant reasonably say that it 
was the overdraft charges that were responsible for Ms Ds overdraft balance here. 
I accept that all of these things in themselves (or even taken together) dont mean that Ms D 
wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in Ms Ds transactions in 
themselves which ought to have prompted NatWest to have realised this. 
So, in these circumstances, I dont think that it was unreasonable for NatWest to proceed 
with the interest, fees and charges it added. And I dont think NatWest unfairly charged Ms D 
in circumstances where it ought to have realised that she may have been experiencing 
financial difficulty.
Having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Ms Ds complaint. I 
realise that this will be very disappointing for Ms D. But I hope that shell understand the 
reasons for my decision and at least feel that her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman