DRN-4002748
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr S holds with Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Intelligent Finance (IF). The mortgage in question has a feature that allows credit balances in 
separate savings accounts to be offset against the mortgage balance for calculating interest.  
Mr S is unhappy at the way IF operates the offsetting feature and says he cant reconcile the 
account from the information on his statements.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr S and IF. Im also aware that the 
investigator issued a response to the complaint, a copy of which has been sent to all parties, 
and so I dont need to repeat all the details here. Our decisions are published, and its 
important that I dont include any information that might result in Mr S being identified. 
Instead Ill give a brief summary in my own words and then focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because 
I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
IF issued a final response to the complaint in August 2022; it explained why the account 
operated as it does. When the case came to us, our investigator didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mr S asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, these are my conclusions, and the reasons for them.
Clearly, IFs way of doing things arent to Mr S liking, and apparently dont equate to the way 
other lenders hes used in the past operate. But having no regulatory function means its not 
open to me to tell IF how to set up and administer the offsetting feature of its mortgages; 
even if that means that a mortgage that is interest-only occasionally experiences minor 
fluctuations in the balance. I also have no power to tell the business to present the specific 
information in the account statements that Mr S has said should be there. 
I appreciate Mr S is frustrated at not being able to satisfy himself that his mortgage is 
operating correctly. But not being sure if things are correct isnt the same as having good 
reason, supported by hard evidence, to believe they are incorrect; and Mr S hasnt provided 
any substantive independent evidence as to why he thinks his mortgage is operating to his 
detriment. 
But that doesnt mean Mr S has to take IFs word that everything is correct. If Mr S has a real 
and substantive belief (based on something other his frustration at not being able to verify 
things himself) that his account isnt right, it is open to him to arrange for the account to be 
audited by a suitably qualified and independent party. 
The evidence of the audit could then be used as the basis for a new complaint, but not as 
the basis for this one to be reopened. I make the latter point because IF would need to be 
presented with the finished audit first, and be given the opportunity to consider and respond 
to it. 
Mr S would have to meet the cost of the audit, albeit if errors were found that were to his 
detriment, we would then expect IF to reimburse any reasonable cost of the audit as well as 
taking any corrective action the audit revealed to be necessary. But as things stand, the 
available evidence doesnt give me reason to think that IFs operation of Mr S mortgage 
account is inaccurate and/or causing him financial detriment. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman