DRN-3467443
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with what Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) did after she 
made a claim on her wedding insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs D was originally due to get married in January 2019 at an overseas location with the 
ceremony and reception taking place in different venues. Because of Covid-19 the wedding 
had to be rearranged a number of times (without additional cost). It took place in October 
2021. 
However, the ceremony venue was unable to host the event because of reasons relating to 
Covid-19. So the wedding took place at the reception venue. The cost remained the same. 
But Mrs D says it was agreed that would be a fixed price covering exclusive hire of the 
venue. That wasnt the case. So she made a claim on her wedding insurance policy as she 
said shed paid for something she never received. 
RSA said this wasnt something her policy covered and would need to be taken up as a 
dispute with the venue. It said the legal helpline provided as part of her policy might be able 
to assist with this. Our investigator agreed the claim wasnt covered and didnt think RSA 
had done anything wrong in turning it down. 
Mrs D didnt agree. She said she was fully covered under her policy for anything that was 
promised and not received. Shed paid for exclusive hire which hadnt been provided. She 
thought her claim should be covered. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say RSA has a responsibility to handle
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I appreciate it must have been upsetting for Mrs D that she was unable to have her wedding 
at the venue shed agreed. I can see she then had problems in contacting her wedding 
planner which I dont doubt will have caused additional stress. And it does appear from the 
photographs shes provided that the venue didnt provide exclusive hire as non-wedding 
guests appear to be on those. 
But the question for me is whether this is something covered under her wedding insurance 
policy with RSA. Mrs D has suggested the policy covers her for anything promised and not 
received. However, that isnt right. Mrs D needs to have suffered a loss covered by the terms 
of her policy. I dont think thats the case here. Ill explain why. 
The policy does cover irrecoverable expenses incurred as a result of the cancellation or 
curtailment of a wedding in a number of situations which include the booked venue for the 
wedding or wedding reception being unable to hold your wedding due to an outbreak of 
infectious or contagious disease. It could also cover additional costs incurred in rearranging 
the wedding as a result of the above cancellation reason. 
In this case I understand the ceremony venue was unable to host the wedding because of 
Covid-19. So that term could apply here. But the claim Mrs D made isnt for additional costs 
she incurred as a result of the original venue cancelling or for the rearrangement of her 
wedding. Her claim relates to the reception venue not delivering a service she believes it had 
agreed to (exclusive hire). I cant see thats covered under this section of her policy. 
Ive thought about whether any other sections of the policy might cover this claim. I dont 
think they would.  In particular, while the policy does cover failure of a pre-booked wedding 
supplier to meet their contractual obligations thats where the claim is for irrecoverable 
deposits or additional costs in arranging alternative equivalent services to those originally 
booked. Additional costs are defined as the difference between the original cost of the 
wedding/wedding reception services and the rearranged wedding/wedding reception 
services to provide an equivalent service to that originally booked.
Again I dont think that applies here. I appreciate Mrs D is unhappy with the service provided 
by the venue, but she went ahead with her wedding and so hasnt lost her deposit. And she 
hasnt incurred additional costs in arranging alternative services - shes confirmed the cost of 
her wedding remained the same.  
Mrs D may have a claim against the wedding venue for breach of contract (if shes got 
evidence to show exclusive hire of the venue was promised) and her policy does offer the 
services of a legal helpline which might be of assistance to her. But for the reasons Ive 
explained I dont think the claim she made to RSA is one her policy covers, and I think it 
acted fairly in turning this down. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman