DRN-2911867
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds settlement of their travel insurance 
claim. My references to Aviva include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J have travel insurance through a bank account. The insurer is Aviva. They 
planned a family holiday to a European country for August 2020. In December 2019 they 
booked and paid for the ferry and around the same time booked accommodation.
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but 
essential travel abroad. On 29 June 2020 Mr and Mrs J booked and paid the deposit for 
alternative accommodation because the original property was no longer available due to 
Covid-19 developments. Mr and Mrs J say they knew there were travel restrictions at the 
time of booking but it was rumoured restrictions would be lifted and if not they could recover 
the deposit from the accommodation provider if they cancelled before 1 August 2020.
On 4 July 2020 the relevant country was put on the travel exemption list by the FCO, 
meaning Mr and Mrs J could go on holiday. Around 16 July 2020 they paid the outstanding 
balance for the accommodation.
On 14 August 2020, the day before Mr and Mrs F were due to travel, the FCO removed the 
relevant country from the exemption list and again advised against all but essential travel. 
Mr and Mrs J cancelled the holiday. The ferry provider wouldnt refund the cost and the 
accommodation provider refunded a small part of the costs. Mr and Mrs J claimed on the 
policy for their portion of the unrefunded costs.
Aviva partially settled the claim. It paid the costs of the ferry as there was no FCO advice 
against travel when the ferry was booked. It wouldnt pay the accommodation costs as when 
Mr and Mrs J booked the accommodation the FCOs advice was against all but essential 
travel abroad and it said they should have known they may not be able to travel.
Mr and Mrs J complained to us. In summary they say Aviva should fairly pay the full claim 
as:
the policy didnt define booking and when they paid the deposit for the 
accommodation in June 2020 it was an intention of booking rather than a confirmed 
booking
the booking was confirmed and completed only when they made the final payment 
and at that time the FCOs advice was they could travel.
Our investigator said Aviva fairly declined the claim for accommodation costs.
Mr and Mrs J disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Aviva fairly and reasonably settled their claim, and I think it did.  
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy covers non recoverable travel and accommodation cancellation costs if the FCO 
advises against all travel or all but essential travel to Mr and Mrs Js destination. But the 
policy specifically excludes cancellation costs of:
Any claim where you knew at the time of  booking your trip  that you or your 
travelling companion may be unable to travel.
The policy doesnt define booking your trip and Ive considered Mr and Mrs Js comments 
about what would be a fair interpretation. But Im not persuaded it would be fair for me to say 
they only booked the trip when they paid the outstanding balance for the accommodation. 
Where a word isnt defined in a policy I generally think its reasonable to give the word its 
common meaning. Ive looked at various dictionary definitions of booking. Most, if not all, 
refer to the act of reservation, for example booking/reserving accommodation, a restaurant 
table, a ticket. The definitions dont say there has to be full payment of the reservation for the 
definition of booking to be met. In addition, I think its widely accepted practice that deposits 
are paid to secure bookings.
I think Aviva reasonably considered Mr and Mrs J booked the claimed for accommodation 
element of the trip on 29 June 2020, when they reserved and paid the deposit for the 
accommodation. 
On 29 June 2020 the FCOs advice against all but essential travel was in place. I think at 
that time Mr and Mrs J ought to have reasonably known they may not be able to travel to the 
relevant country in August 2020. They say there were rumours travel restrictions would be 
lifted. But given the rapidly developing situation with Covid-19 I think they should have 
reasonably known there was a real likelihood that the travel restrictions may not have been 
lifted, or lifted and then reinstated, before their holiday date. 
The latter happened and the timings meant Mr and Mrs J paid the outstanding balance for 
the accommodation and the refund cut-off date passed during the short period when travel 
restrictions were lifted. I understand Mr and Mrs Js frustration as theyve been very 
unfortunate about how the timings left them with lost costs as well as missing their holiday. 
But that doesnt mean Aviva should pay the claim for the accommodation costs.
Im satisfied Aviva fairly and reasonably settled Mr and Mrs Js claim. It paid for the ferry 
costs as Mr and Mrs J had no known reason why they may not be able to travel when they 
booked and paid for the ferry. Aviva reasonably said at the time of booking the 
accommodation Mr and Mrs J should have known that due to the FCO advice at that time 
they may not be able to travel.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman