DRN-1791746
The complaint
Mr O has complained that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with 
a Marks & Spencer personal reserve account. Allianz Insurance plc (Allianz) has taken 
responsibility for this complaint, so Ill refer to Allianz in the rest of this decision. 
What happened
Mr O took out the PPI policy in 1996 at the same time as applying for the account by filling 
out a leaflet.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr O disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint and Ill explain why. 
Allianz no longer has any paperwork from the sale, which isnt surprising given how long ago 
it took place. However, this does make the complaint more difficult to decide. In reaching my 
decision I have considered the information that we do have, as well as what I consider is 
most likely to have happened.
Mr O says he wasnt aware that PPI had been added to the account  meaning that it was 
added without his knowledge or consent.
From what we know of Allianzs sales processes at the time, the PPI was normally presented 
as optional. I havent seen anything to persuade me that something different happened in 
this case.
Although Mr Os actual application form is no longer available, we do have a sample of the 
sort of form that was in use at the time. The form has a section for PPI which gives a brief 
explanation of the cost of the policy, what it covers and eligibility criteria. Within that section 
there is a box that needed to be ticked to request the policy.
I have no doubt that Mr O has provided his genuine recollection of events. But the sale 
happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Os memory has faded. 
Overall, looking at the wording and layout of the form, I think that Mr O would have known 
that he had a choice about buying the policy. It seems to me that he probably decided to buy 
it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
I dont know if Allianz advised Mr O to buy the policy or not. If it did recommend the PPI to 
Mr O, then it needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Os 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for him.Mr O would have received some sick pay from his employer  he thinks it would have been 
at least three months full pay. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay 
and potentially for longer than Mr O would have received full pay for. Mr O has some limited 
savings at the time. But having the policy would have allowed him to retain these or use 
them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
I think that Mr O would have known something about the policy  that it would cover his 
account repayments if he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  
because I dont think hed have decided to take it out without knowing anything at all about it.
Its possible that Allianz could have provided more information about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr O wasnt affected by any of those things. As I 
consider that he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that more 
information would have caused him to change his mind. So he is no worse off as a result of 
anything Allianz may have done wrong, so there is nothing that Allianz needs to do to put 
things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman