DRN-3087353
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bradford & Bingley Plc didnt collect the capital balance at the end of the
term of his interest only mortgage, leading to him paying more interest.  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision, extracts of which follow.
Mr S had an interest only mortgage which was due to end in 2017  following an earlier ten 
year extension to the term agreed in 2007.
Unfortunately Mr S became unwell with a neurological condition. He explains that his 
condition and the medication he has to take leaves him with memory problems and there are 
times when he finds it difficult to manage his affairs. But he has no family members who can 
assist him.
The mortgage balance was under £50,000. So that he wouldnt have to worry about the 
mortgage and remember to make arrangements for it, Mr S set up a direct debit with 
Bradford & Bingley and made sure around £100,000 was in his current account. He says he 
assumed that it would collect the capital at the end of the term as well as the monthly 
payments using the direct debit.
In fact, Bradford & Bingley only collected the monthly payments. And due to a system error, 
it didnt write to Mr S when the term of the mortgage was approaching, or when it ended, 
asking him to make arrangements to repay the capital.
As a result, the mortgage remained unpaid. Monthly interest continued to be collected via 
direct debit. It was only in 2019 that Bradford & Bingley realised its mistake and wrote to 
Mr S telling him that the term was at an end and asking him to repay the capital.
Mr S complained. He said that Bradford & Bingley should have collected the capital too and 
its failure to do so had cost him over a years worth of interest.
Bradford & Bingley didnt uphold the complaint. It said it was Mr Ss responsibility to make 
sure the capital was repaid on time. Our investigator agreed, though she said it should pay 
Mr S £350 compensation for the upset its failure to write to him had caused. Mr S didnt 
agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that Bradford & Bingley made a mistake. It should have written to 
Mr S before and at the end of his interest only term, prompting him to make repayment of the 
capital.
I agree that it wouldnt have been the right thing for it to simply collect the capital balance via 
the monthly direct debit. Its unlikely most borrowers would have the full capital balance in 
their current accounts, and attempting to take a direct debit in those circumstances could 
cause problems. While that wasnt the case for Mr S, Bradford & Bingley had no way of 
knowing that.
However, it should have taken steps to contact Mr S before the capital fell due, when it was 
due, and when it wasnt repaid. It didnt do any of that.
The result was that the capital wasnt repaid, and over a years worth of further interest was 
taken from Mr Ss account.
In general, I agree that its for the borrower to make arrangements to repay on time. But in 
this particular case, Mr S had a medical condition that caused him difficulty in managing his 
affairs and with memory. He had put arrangements in place some years before to avoid 
problems with his money and to avoid the need to remember particular dates. He relied on 
Bradford & Bingley collecting the payments via direct debit  and while it would never have 
collected the capital that way, theres no reason Mr S should have known that.
In the particular circumstances of this case, Mr S wasnt aware of the term end date at the 
time it fell due and Bradford & Bingley failed in its obligations to remind him at the time. In 
other cases, I might think it fair to say that failure to repay in time means that the borrower is 
liable for additional interest.
But in this case, I dont think that would be a fair outcome. One of the reasons for requiring a 
reminder of the end of term is to prompt the borrower to repay.
Im satisfied Mr S had funds available and would have repaid if asked to do so  as indeed 
he did in 2019. While Bradford & Bingley didnt know  and couldnt have known  of Mr Ss 
condition, I think it was foreseeable that vulnerable customers who struggle to manage their 
money would rely on prompts from Bradford & Bingley to take particular steps at particular 
times. And its failure to do that in this case meant that Mr S missed repaying the capital on 
time, and paid additional interest until Bradford & Bingley realised its mistake.
In the particular circumstances of this case, I think it would be fair for Bradford & Bingley to 
refund the additional interest that resulted. Im also satisfied that £350 compensation is fair 
for the upset caused once Mr S learned of its mistake. 
Both parties responded, and both parties accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered matters again, and bearing in mind that both parties accepted it, I see no 
reason to change the outcome I proposed in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put matters right, Bradford & Bingley should refund the additional interest Mr S has paid 
since the original term end date. And it should pay £350 in recognition of the distress caused 
by Mr S finding out hed paid his mortgage for longer than he needed to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Bradford & Bingley Plc to:
Refund interest charged to Mr S between the date the mortgage should have been 
redeemed and the date it was actually repaid, adding simple annual interest of 8%* 
running from the date of each interest payment to date of refund;
Pay Mr S £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
* If Bradford & Bingley Plc considers it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my 
award it may do so but should give Mr S confirmation of the deduction so that he can reclaim the tax 
from HMRC if he is entitled to do so.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman