DRN-4412763
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd (Right Choice) dealt with 
his van insurance policy being cancelled.
What happened
Mr S had a van insurance policy arranged through Right Choice, which is an insurance 
broker. He took the policy out in August 2021.
When he applied for the cover, Mr S was asked to input details of previous claims hed had. 
Right Choice said Mr S told it he had three claims; two fault and one non-fault.
His van was stolen in June 2022 and Mr S made a claim from the insurance company. It 
investigated his history and found that hed actually had four previous claims. It repudiated 
his claim and voided his policy as it wasnt able to cover anyone with four previous claims.
Mr S said he told Right Choice about the four claims. Right Choice provided evidence that 
hed only disclosed three claims to it. It waived its cancellation fees and offered him a refund.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He asks for 
compensation. Our investigator looked into his complaint and thought it wouldnt be upheld. 
She said Mr S had confirmed hed forgotten about the fourth claim when hed applied for 
cover. Right Choices claims handler had made an error when discussing his claim which led 
Mr S to think it already knew about the fourth claim.
Mr S didnt agree with the view and asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why as I appreciate this 
will be a considerable disappointment to him.
From the file Ive been provided I can see that when Mr Ss claim was turned down by the 
insurance company, he rang Right Choice. In that call he was firstly told that it did know 
about his fourth claim because it would routinely check databases when policies were set 
up. 
The call handler then checked with their supervisor who clarified that when policies were set 
up, Right Choice wouldnt check the claims history. What would normally happen is that their 
claims history would be checked at the time a claim was made, which is what had happened 
to Mr S.
When the insurance company checked databases it found that Mr S had a fourth claim. 
What this meant is that it wouldnt have offered him cover.
Mr S said he wasnt given a copy of his policy details so he wasnt able to check them. 
He says Right Choice had his full claims history. And he also says the details it had werent 
correct  he says he actually had three non-fault and one fault claims when he applied for 
cover.
Right Choice was able to show then it was impossible for it to have added a fourth claim to 
Mr Ss application as it would have voided the cover.
I think its fair that I say that Right Choice didnt have details of the four claims. I say this 
because in his call to it, Mr S says he forgot to tell it. I can see he was then told by Right 
Choice that it did have details of the fourth claim, but I can see this was a mistake and that it 
clarified this with him in the same call.
Im concerned that Mr S didnt have a copy of his policy documents and has said he wasnt 
able to get a copy from Right Choice, but I think he had about ten months on cover to be 
able to check this. I can see Right Choice says it sent him his policy certificate when he 
asked it to, after his policy had begun.
Ive not seen any evidence to say that Right Choice knew about Mr Ss fourth claim. I think 
its reasonably shown that if it had details of all the claims, it wouldnt have been able to 
place Mr Ss business with the insurance company. 
Mr S has said in later correspondence with this service that he thinks the data on his 
application has been changed but Ive not seen any evidence of this. I understand Mr S is 
intending to approach Right Choice with a Subject Access Request to examine how his data 
has been used, but I dont think that affects my decision as I dont think he reasonably told 
Right Choice about the fourth claim when he applied for cover.
I think Right Choices actions in waiving its cancellation fee and offering a refund are fair and 
reasonable and Im not going to ask it to do more.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman