DRN-4250756
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc sent him messages about his bank account even 
though it had been closed. Also, Barclays declined his request for email communications.
What happened
Barclays closed Mr Cs account in July 2022. Following this, it sent Mr C some promotional 
and marketing emails. Mr C said this led him to believe his account was still open. Mr C 
complained to Barclays, but said he didnt receive a final response letter as required by the 
rules and wasnt kept updated. 
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Barclays acknowledged to us that it hadnt 
responded to Mr Cs complaint in the proper timescale and hadnt corresponded by email as 
per his request. Barclays upheld Mr Cs complaint and asked us to apologise to him for not 
responding to his complaint properly, but it didnt think compensation was required. Barclays 
have confirmed it has since removed Mr Cs email address, so no more non-complaint 
related communications will be sent.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She said we cant consider 
how a business has handled a complaint, but we can look at the service provided to Mr C. 
She said Barclays sent Mr C promotional and other material several months after closing his 
account. The investigator provided the detail of each communication and an explanation 
from Barclays as to why this had happened. 
Our investigator said Barclays should pay Mr C £150 compensation for the impact on him of 
having received unsolicited material after his bank account had been closed.  
Mr C wasnt happy with the compensation for Barclays multiple errors and requested an 
ombudsman review the complaint. He said he wasnt sure all communications had been sent 
by Barclays, and it hadnt made reasonable adjustments and its messages amounted to 
harassment. In response Barclays agreed to increase its compensation to £200.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Separate complaints have been raised for Mr C concerning correspondence not being sent 
to him in large print and in response to his formal request for information under the law, and 
delays experienced in receiving the information. And for the closure of his bank account. 
I have considered here Mr Cs complaint about the messages from Barclays after his 
account was closed and its refusal to send other communications by email at his request. I 
can see Barclays sent Mr C four marketing emails in November 2022, and one in January 
2023 as well as text messages. The latter appear to imply that Mr Cs account is still open. 
These have been described by the investigator and so I dont intend to repeat that here.
Mr C is visually impaired and so is caused difficulty by written communications. I say this as 
one message noted that a document was important, and he couldnt read it. Since other 
communications were unnecessary and irrelevant to him, I think he was caused avoidable 
distress and inconvenience. 
While Mr C didnt want any marketing materials sent to him, he did want his statements sent 
in large print by post and all other correspondence sent by email. Mr C has confirmed he is 
happy to receive calls in the event of any suspicious transactions. Barclays has since 
confirmed that Mr C was getting credit card statements online, but they have now been 
switched to paper and his email address has been reapplied. 
Generally we would expect a bank to stop sending communications about its services to a 
former customer. Barclays was aware of Mr Cs visual impairment, and so when he 
requested adjustments so he could read emails by enlarging them on his computer, Barclays 
ought to have accommodated his request. As Mr C wasnt receiving post he contacted 
Barclays on six occasions between up to 16 January 2023 for updates, which would have 
caused a level of frustration that couldve been avoided had Barclays sent him emails.
Barclays accepted its communications would have caused Mr C inconvenience. But I dont 
think that its letter to Mr C about the account closure and switching process ensured he 
understood his account was only technically open. I think the messages may have caused 
Mr C confusion and were difficult for him to access and so I agree with the investigator there 
was some impact on Mr C and an apology alone wasnt sufficient to address this. Having 
said this, I see no financial risk to Mr C from these communications and his account with 
Barclays is no longer active. 
Putting things right
Having considered the compensation paid to Mr C, I agree with the investigator that £200 
compensation is both fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. This reflects the 
inconvenience to Mr C from all of the unnecessary communications related to this complaint 
and the restriction on email communications.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mr C £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it 
has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023. 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman