DRN-3427324
The complaint
Ms H complains that JD Williams & Company Limited trading as Simply Be charged her an 
incorrect interest rate.
What happened
In November 2010 Ms H opened a credit account with Simply Be.
Ms H says that she requested information about her account from Simply Be because she 
thinks the interest rate charged is incorrect. She says the rate of interest on her account is 
58.5% but that she never signed an agreement for this rate of interest and that the rate when 
she opened the account was 29.9%.
Ms H complained to Simply Be and requested a refund.
In its final response, Simply Be said that interest rates were determined upon application and 
depended on individual customers circumstances. It confirmed that the interest rate on Ms 
Hs account was originally set at 58.17% and that the rate had never changed.
Ms H was unhappy with the response and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that he hadnt seen any evidence to 
show that the interest rate was ever anything other than 58.17% and that Simply Be hadnt 
done anything wrong by charging this rate.
Ms H didnt agree. She said that when she applied for the account, her credit profile was 
good and there was no reason to charge her a higher rate of interest. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the information provided that Ms H opened her account in November 2010. 
The application was completed online.
Ms H has said that she wants to see her original agreement. This service has asked Simply 
Be to provide this, but it has explained that the original application is no longer available due 
to passage of time. 
Whilst I appreciate that this is frustrating for Ms H, it has been several years since the 
account was opened and the agreement entered in to, so I dont think Simply Bes 
explanation for being unable to provide the original agreement is unreasonable.
Ive looked at the process for opening an account online with Simply Be. The process 
requires an applicant to click to say they accept the terms and conditions of the account. Ive 
looked at the sample application provided by Simply Be. The interest rate applicable to the 
account is clearly shown. On the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that Ms H was 
made aware of the applicable interest rate when she opened the account. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that Ms H was offered one rate of interest and subsequently charged a 
different rate.
Ive reviewed the account history and I can see that the interest rate applicable to the 
account has been the same throughout. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Ms H was made aware of the interest rate applicable to her 
account. Im also satisfied that the rate hasnt increased since the account was opened. Ms 
H has said that the rate was higher than it should have been and that it wasnt fair to charge 
her an increased rate of interest because she had a good credit rating at the time she 
applied for the account. I havent seen any information about Ms Hs credit rating at the 
relevant time so Im unable to comment on this. In any event, and as Simply Be has 
explained, interest rates depend on an individuals circumstances. This is a commercial 
decision for Simply Be. This service isnt able to tell a business what its lending policy should 
be.
I understand that Ms H feels very strongly about this. However, for the reasons Ive 
explained, Im unable to say that Simply Be has treated Ms H unfairly or unreasonably.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman