DRN-2746412
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with her in relation to 
payments accidentally paid to her account.
What happened
In June 2020 an unknown third party accidentally made two payments into Mrs Ms current 
account with Nationwide, about a week apart, from an account with another bank. That 
person made a third payment to Mrs Ms account in August. In total, the three payments add 
up to £258.
The other bank asked Nationwide to return the money, on behalf of its customer. In July, 
Nationwide sent a letter to Mrs M about the first two payments. She says she did not receive 
that letter, but Nationwide sent her a second letter a few days later. Both letters were 
similarly worded. They each said that Nationwide would withdraw the payments from her 
account in the next few days, and asked her to ensure that there was enough money in her 
account for this to happen. (The second letter was sent because there had not been enough 
money in the account when Nationwide had first tried to return it.) Nationwide could not 
remove the money from her account if it would result in an unarranged overdraft.
On receiving the second letter, Mrs M tried to phone Nationwide about it, but she was unable 
to get through to anyone on the specific phone number given on the letter. Nationwide said 
this was a consequence of its staff member working from home during the covid-19 
lockdown: the call would not connect if the staff member was not logged in or was taking a 
break. Nationwide apologised and paid Mrs M £25 for that. But it argued that she could have 
called Nationwides general number instead.
Mrs M was not satisfied with that response. In September she brought this complaint to our 
Service. As well as complaining about being unable to speak to Nationwide, she complained 
that the second letter had contained an error, in that it had said that both of the first two 
payments had been made on the same day, whereas only the second of them had been 
made on that day. She said that Nationwides letters were intimidating. But her main 
complaint was that she wanted to return the money, but she had not been able to do so, 
because Nationwide had not made it possible for her to get in touch. She also said that she 
did not trust Nationwide to return the money to the person who had made the payments.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that Nationwides explanation about 
homeworking during the pandemic was reasonable. She did not think that Nationwides 
letters had been intended to be intimidating, but that they had just been meant to warn 
Mrs M about what the sender of the payments could do to get their money back. She thought 
that Nationwide had tried alternative ways of getting the money, such as by asking for 
Mrs Ms permission to withdraw the money from her account even if it results in an 
overdrawn balance, and by arranging for its payments recoveries team to contact her 
directly. Mrs M did not accept that opinion, and she asked for an ombudsman to review her 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint, for broadly the same reasons as our investigator gave.
I agree that Nationwides letters contained a factual error, in that they described the first 
payment as happening on the wrong date. However, I cannot see that Mrs M was prejudiced 
by that mistake, and so I will not award compensation for it.
If the first letter was not delivered, that is not Nationwides fault. Its not responsible for the 
mail. The second letter repeated everything that was contained in the first, so she was fully 
informed once she received the second letter. I have read that letter and, except for the error 
already mentioned, it was clear.
I presume that the part of the letter which Mrs M says she found intimidating was the 
following passage:
We must make you aware that the sender of the payment may pursue an 
alternative course of action to recover the funds paid to you in error. This could 
include legal proceedings which, if successful, are likely to result in additional costs 
for you so you may wish to take independent legal advice on this matter.
That was followed immediately by the following paragraph:
I apologise for any inconvenience this may cause you. If you would like to discuss 
this please contact me using the above details.
I do not agree that either the content or the tone of the letter was unreasonable. I daresay 
that Mrs M found intimidating the prospect of being sued by the sender of the payment if she 
did not return the money, but that does not mean that Nationwide is responsible for that, or 
that it should not have warned her of the possibility.
Mrs M told us, and Nationwide, that she would never dream of not returning the money, and 
that she wants nothing more than to return it. Our investigator accepted that statement at 
face value, but I find it difficult to reconcile it with another of Mrs Ms statements, when she 
told us: 
The money has not been sent back as I have no way of sending it back. I have lost 
all faith in Nationwide as an organisation and do not trust them to return the money 
without an electronic record for my personal assurance the matter has been dealt 
with from their side.
The first sentence is not true, as all Mrs M ever needed to do was pay £258 into her account 
so that Nationwide could collect it. That was explained to her in the first letter she received, 
and repeatedly since. The second sentence seems to suggest that her co-operation is 
contingent on Nationwide providing her with acceptable proof that it has really actually paid 
the money back to the person it came from and not just stolen it for itself. This is an 
allegation of bad faith which does not appear to me to be warranted.
As I write this decision it is now May 2021: eleven months since the first two payments, and 
nine months since the third, and the money has still not been returned. I am not entirely 
persuaded that this delay is wholly because of the difficulty Mrs M experienced in getting 
through to somebody on the phone number given in the letter.
I will come back to that phone number later. For the purposes of this paragraph, I will 
assume that that phone number was entirely unusable. Nevertheless, since Mrs M have up trying to call that number, Nationwide has also provided her with an email address she can 
use to get in touch with it (in its final response letter, which was sent to her in August, before 
the third payment). I can see that she did email Nationwide. Nationwide has also asked 
Mrs M to authorise the withdrawal of the money from her account even if that results in an 
overdraft, which it cannot do without her consent, but she has not consented to that. (That 
proposed solution was communicated to her via our investigator, so its not a case of another 
Nationwide letter not being delivered.)
I accept that Mrs M didnt manage to speak to anyone on the phone number given in the 
second letter. I accept Nationwides explanation for that. But I think the problem was 
mitigated by the fact that Mrs M did manage to speak to Nationwide when she first lodged 
her complaint, in a phone call on 31 July, which I note is four days after the date in the 
second letter. That call lasted about half an hour, which I think is enough time to discuss the 
matter thoroughly. Ive listened to the recording, and I note that when the call handler told 
Mrs M that it would be necessary to return the money as soon as possible so that she 
doesnt accidentally spend it, her reaction was outrage. (That was about ten and a half 
minutes into the call.)
By that time, Mrs M had in fact already spent it. I dont think that was her fault, as the first 
two payments added up to such a small amount of money (a two-figure sum) that she would 
not have noticed that it was not hers to spend, until Nationwide told her. But given that she 
was able to speak to Nationwide on the phone so soon after receiving the letter, and 
considering that Nationwide gave her an email address to use in its final response letter five 
days later, I think that £25 is fair compensation for her not being able to get through to 
Nationwide on the original phone number.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman