DRN-3759033
The complaint
Ms G complains about a life and critical illness term insurance policy taken out with Scottish 
Widows Limited coming to an end. 
What happened
In December 2020 Ms G received a letter from Scottish Widows saying her life and critical 
illness insurance policy was coming to an end the following month. 
Ms G complained saying she thought the policy would last the whole of her life until a claim 
was made. Scottish Widows didnt uphold the complaint saying it was a life and critical 
illness insurance policy with a term of 20 years and that the terms and conditions show the 
expiry date.
Remaining unhappy Ms G brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. Whilst appreciating how upsetting the situation 
was, they were happy that enough information was provided about the policy when it was 
taken out. They also noted that the policy was sold on a non-advised basis so it was up to 
Ms G to ensure that the policy was suitable for her. 
Ms G disagreed saying she shouldve been told that the policy would be closed and no 
future claim could be made after that time, so the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G has provided a lot of information about her complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
she feels about what happened. I want to assure Ms G that Ive read and considered 
everything thats been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some 
things which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
The policy was taken out in 2000 so unsurprisingly there isnt a full record of what happened 
at the time of sale. In situations like this I must come to a decision based on the available 
evidence about what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Ive firstly considered the application form signed by Ms G where Level Term Assurance with 
Critical Illness protection was selected with a term of 20 years.
The policy illustration from the time also shows a term of 20 years and says: Sum assured 
payable on death within the plan term or if we accept a claim based on terminal illness or 
critical illness. And the schedule issued to Ms G after the policy was set up shows an expiry 
date of 28 January 2021.
So looking at the available evidence from the time Im satisfied this was a policy that had a 
term of 20 years and that this was made clear to Ms G. Being a non-advised sale it was up 
to Ms G to ensure that the policy met her needs. 
Ms G disagrees the policy was sold without advice and that it was taken out over the 
telephone. The policy was taken out some 20 years ago so its not possible to say what was 
discussed. I also think its important to say that just because there was a telephone call 
doesnt mean that advice was given. Considering everything from the time Im satisfied that 
the policy was sold on a non-advised basis. 
When dealing with Scottish Widows Ms G said she was of the understanding that the policy 
paid the same amount no matter when you die, both during and after the 20 year term. 
When dealing with our investigator Ms G said there was nothing to say that a claim couldnt 
be made on the policy in the future.
I think its clear theres a misunderstanding about how the policy works. Term policies such 
as this one are designed to pay claims during the term they are active. Once the term has 
ended then the policy ends, and no claims can be made. Other types of policies do provide 
cover for whole of life but they operate in a very different way.
I think Scottish Widows made clear how the policy works. Ive not seen anything to persuade 
me information was given about making a claim after the term of the policy ends. 
Ms G was provided with information about the policy after it was set up. If the policy 
documents didnt match her understanding of how she thought things worked then it was 
possible to seek clarification.
After carefully considering everything that happened Im satisfied Scottish Widows acted 
fairly and reasonably when dealing with Ms G so I wont be asking them to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman