DRN-3126689
Complaint
Ms H is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) only provided her with a more 
expensive emergency borrowing facility, rather than a standard arranged overdraft, and 
refused to switch her to the cheaper facility.
Background
Ms H had an emergency borrowing facility with Barclays since 2014. In 2020, Barclays wrote 
to Ms H and told her that the way it was charging for overdrafts was changing as a result of 
new rules brought in by the industry regulator. Ms H complained to Barclays saying that 
shed repeatedly asked for her emergency borrowing facility to be changed to an overdraft 
and the new rules supported that shed been charged too much. 
Barclays didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint. It said it never received a formal overdraft 
application from Ms H. Ms H remained dissatisfied and referred her complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Hs concerns. She didnt think Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Ms H unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Ms H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Hs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision on the type of 
borrowing product it wishes to offer a customer and the associated rates it sets are 
commercial decisions. So while Ms H is unhappy with the rate Barclays charged her this isnt 
something for me to get involved with, especially as the rules she has referred to didnt come 
into force until April 2020.
That said, while Im not looking at Barclayss charging structure changes per se, it wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Ms H if it implemented these changes unfairly.    
Ms H says that she made applications for a formal arranged overdraft. But Ive looked 
through the records of the contact Ms H has had with Barclays over the years and while an 
overdraft appears to have been discussed in 2014, I cant see any record of a formal 
application having been made. Equally, Ms H hasnt provided anything to support her having 
been formally declined for an overdraft by Barclays either. 
I understand Ms Hs strength of feeling on this matter and why she might be unhappy at 
having paid more when she did use her overdraft. But Ms H would have been aware of the 
cost of using the facility. And Im satisfied that Ms H was in a position to stop using her 
emergency reserve facility or apply for an overdraft elsewhere if she thought Barclays 
charges were too high. So Im not persuaded that she had no choice other than to use the 
facility and pay the charges she did. As this is the case and bearing in mind what Ive 
already said, I dont think that Barclays needs to refund any interest, fees and charges and 
Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Ms H  especially as she has quite rightly 
pointed out that shes been waiting sometime for an answer from us. But I hope shell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman