DRN-1952066
The complaint
Miss B complains that confidential letters were posted unsealed to her old address by 
NCO Europe Limited which caused her embarrassment. These letters related to an 
outstanding debt.
What happened
On 22 October 2019 Miss B had two conversations with NCO over the phone. During the 
first, Miss B confirmed an address they held on file (Flat A). When Miss B was phoned back, 
she gave a different address (Flat B). She said Flat A was her old address and she now lives 
at Flat B. 
On 18 November 2019 Miss B contacted NCO to complain about letters regarding her 
account being sent to Flat A. The new occupant had given her the post theyd received. The 
letters were unsealed. 
NCO told Miss B shed receive a call back later in the day to discuss her concerns, but she 
never received that call. 
On 8 January 2020, NCO issued their final response letter. They said that the letter was sent 
manually. They said this meant two members of staff would have needed to check the letter 
before it went out. They also added that the postal machine wouldnt have accepted the 
envelope if it was open. 
NCO apologised for not updating her address when instructed to do so in October. They also 
apologised for not calling her back as promised. They said theyd raised the concerns 
internally so that feedback could be provided to those involved. 
Miss B wasnt happy with the answer they gave her. She felt the apology given didnt reflect 
the embarrassment and upset shed experienced so she asked us to look into things.
Our investigator looked at Miss Bs complaint. He said while he couldnt make a finding on 
whether the envelope left NCOs offices sealed or not, an error had been made by NCO. 
They should have updated the address and as result caused a breach of confidentiality and 
upset to Miss B. He also felt the customer service fell below the standard we would expect. 
So, he recommended NCO pay £150 in compensation. 
Miss B accepted this settlement, but NCO didnt. They said this was effectively a failure to 
update an address and felt that £25 compensation would be enough. Because they didnt 
agree, the complaints been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has said the envelopes werent sealed and made strong arguments in favour of this. 
NCO said the letters couldnt have been sent out without being sealed because of their 
processes. I cant reasonably know if NCO sent out the letters unsealed. This is because 
they went through a delivery service, and were delivered to a different address before 
reaching Miss B. Its possible that the envelope could have become unsealed at any of these 
points. But I think the key thing for me to consider in this case, is NCO sending these letters 
to an old address  when Miss B had already told them of her new address.
I understand why this situation would have caused Miss B upset and embarrassment. And 
having listened to the call between our investigator and Miss B in May 2020, its very clear 
that she felt that way when calling us over six months later. This upset wouldnt have 
happened if NCO had updated Miss Bs address to Flat B when they were first given it back 
in October 2019. 
I think its important to emphasise how personal, and sensitive, money matters can be to 
people. And its clear from Miss Bs description of this situation that this is the case for her. It 
doesnt seem NCO have taken this into account, and how this specific situation affected 
Miss B when considering whether to pay compensation. In addition to this, theres been an 
unnecessary breach of confidential information on what seems to be more than one 
occasion. 
Ive also noted that Miss B was supposed to be called back by NCO the same day to discuss 
the issue  but they didnt do this. Given the impact not updating her address had on Miss B, 
this will have only compounded her upset.
NCO said, in response to our investigator, that they thought £150 wasnt proportionate for 
what was effectively failure to update an address and offered £25. But I think NCO have 
missed the point. While their mistakes were a clerical one in not updating the address (or 
calling Miss B back when they should have), as explained above this has a significant impact 
on Miss B. 
Had NCO updated the address correctly, the letters never would have been sent to the 
wrong address  and Miss B wouldnt have been caused any upset.
For those reasons, Im satisfied that £150 is a fair amount to compensate Miss B for the 
trouble and upset shes experienced. 
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint and order NCO Europe Limited to pay Miss B £150 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman