DRN-3908073
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Skrill Limited (Skrill) closed his account without any notice and is 
withholding the money contained within it. 
What happened
Skrill emailed Mr P on 7 July 2021 to let him know it had closed his account with immediate 
effect.  
Mr P had attempted to withdraw the money in his account just prior to this date but due to an 
error in the recipient account details the payment didnt go through. Skrill was looking into it 
and the money was returned by the receiving bank back to Mr Ps account. But in the 
meantime, Skrill took the decision to close Mr Ps account.  
Skrill is now withholding this money in his account and has charged him an administration 
fee. 
Mr P has explained hes only ever used his Skrill account in a fair manner and this whole 
matter has had a negative impact on him and his family, especially as it took place during 
the Covid 19 pandemic.
Skrill said the account was closed and the money withheld in line with the terms and 
conditions. It said it will not provide Mr P with any further information around its decision. 
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She 
was satisfied, having reviewed the rationale behind Skrills actions, that it had been acting in 
line with its legal and regulatory obligations, as well as the terms and conditions, when 
closing the account and withholding the money. She was also happy it could charge an 
administration fee in line with the terms.  She therefore didnt recommend that Skrill take any 
further action. 
Mr P remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Skrill has a wide range of legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing
account services to its customers. These obligations are ongoing so dont just apply at
account opening stage. To comply with these obligations, it may need to review accounts
and the activity taking place on them. Sometimes these reviews will lead to the accounts
being closed. If Skrill didnt do this, it could risk serious sanction.
But if a financial institution chooses to close an account, it should do so for legitimate and 
fair reasons. Taking this into account and reviewing the information Skrill has provided, Im 
satisfied it was entitled to close Mr Ps account and do so without notice. It did this in line 
with its legal and regulatory obligations and the account terms and conditions. And while I 
know this has caused Mr P inconvenience, Skrill has the discretion to offer accounts to who 
it wishes, just as Mr P can choose who to bank with. 
Skrill isnt under any obligation to reveal to a customer why it closed an account. This
information is often commercially sensitive. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it 
to do so or disclose the reasons myself. But I can assure Mr P Ive considered everything. 
I know Mr Ps main concern is the fact Skrill wont release the money in the account to him. 
But considering all the information, Im not able to say it should do so. It follows that I wont 
be making any recommendations around the fact Skrill has debited an administration fee 
from this money. 
Im sorry to hear how Mr P has been impacted by the closure and the withholding of his 
funds  I appreciate having his account closed without notice and not having access to his 
money has been a worrying and difficult for him. But Im satisfied the actions Skrill took on 
his account were done so to comply with its obligations, and it acted within the terms and 
conditions. I therefore wont be recommending Skrill do anything to compensate Mr P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against Skrill Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman