DRN-2779633
The complaint
 Mr J complains he suffered a financial loss because Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
said hed be better off if he delayed taking his benefits from his retirement annuity pension.  
What happened
 Mr J had a deferred annuity contract pension plan with Prudential which hed started in 
1978. It was written to a specific date, the plan anniversary in the year hed be 64. Mr J 
stopped contributing to the policy in 1987 when it became paid up. It was invested in the 
With- Profits fund. 
Mr J had taken early retirement from his work on health grounds so in January 2019 he 
emailed Prudential to say he knew the plan matured on 1 July 2019 and requested a 
valuation and what his options would be. He asked: My question is will there be much 
difference in the amount of payout if I take it now? and requested a response via secure 
message or a call on his mobile.
On 23 January 2019 Prudential sent Mr J a letter showing the transfer value of his pension 
was around £72,536 and provided an illustration to show if he retired immediately he could 
expect an annual annuity payment of just under £3,014 based on Prudentials guarantee. It 
sent a further illustration dated 18 February 2019 for retirement at the plan date of 1 July 
2019 showing the annual annuity would be £3,460. The letters did explain values are not 
guaranteed and can change. Mr J says as it looked like the annuity would be slightly higher if 
he waited until the maturity date, hed delay taking his benefits until then. As the value was 
over £30,000 the letter prompted Mr J to take financial advice or consult Pensionwise. But it 
said he didnt need to do that if he chose to take an annuity, which Mr J had already decided 
to do after taking the maximum 25% tax free cash.
However in May 2019 when Mr J checked his policy value using Prudentials online tool he 
was shocked to see the value had fallen to £60,824. So he asked Prudential for an 
explanation. Prudential said the fall in value was due to a reduction in the terminal bonus, 
which could be removed altered or reduced at any time. But it agreed its communication 
could have been better, so it paid him £50 for this. Mr J complained as he thought hed been 
misled about whether hed be better off waiting until the plan maturity date. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in March 2021 in which I said I was thinking of 
upholding it. In summary I acknowledged Mr J had been told the valuations werent 
guaranteed, but hed asked Prudential a specific question. And in response it had sent him 
two retirement quotes which gave the impression hed be better off if he waited to his plans 
maturity date. 
Extract from the provisional decision
In my provisional decision I looked at the letters Prudential had sent Mr J. This is what I said:
The first letter dated 23 January 2019 thanks Mr J for contacting Prudential about accessing 
his pension savings. It says the current value was about £72,536 and this value is not 
guaranteed and can change on a daily basis. It recommended he take financial advice or 
consult Pensionwise but he didnt need to do that if he took an annuity, which is what Mr J 
had already decided to do. And Mr J would no doubt have been aware hed have to pay for 
financial advice. It also told Mr J what an important decision he was about to make so invited 
him to call with any questions and provided a number. In the plan details section it did say 
that values can rise and fall which is why quotes are guaranteed for 30 days. And it lets Mr J 
know that traditionally our rates are updated on 1 January and 1 April each year. So Mr J 
would be aware the valuations hed been given were based on the January rate and if he 
delayed until July the rate updated in April would apply. But I dont think hed have reason to 
think the updated rate could have such a detrimental impact on the valuation. 
It includes a section headed Your Pension Guarantee Risk Warning which explained that 
Mr Js policy provides a guaranteed income which would be lost if he transferred elsewhere. 
It said Mr J could expect an annual annuity payment with Prudential of £3,450 from July 
2019, compared to £2,920 if he went elsewhere. In the section explaining the guarantee the 
last bullet point reads an annual bonus is added to your minimum income amount before 
you start to take your pension income on 1 July 2019. Any final bonus that is added will 
also increase your pension income. (my emphasis). There was nothing to let Mr J know 
that the application of the terminal bonus could mean he would be worse not better off if he 
delayed taking his benefits by a few months. 
The 18 February 2019 letter is headed Your pension  its time to think about your future 
and gives an approximate value of Mr Js pension of £72,505 with a ^ sign referring to a 
note right at the end of the letter under the signature approximate figure  this figure can 
change. This letter also included the pension guarantee risk warning but this time the 
figures were an annuity of £3,460 with Prudential compared to £2,920 if he went elsewhere. 
So in a month the figure had risen £10, adding to the impression Mr J would receive more 
the longer he delayed. 
The same letter did include the sentence The pension income you receive may be different 
from the amounts mentioned above as we have used standard assumptions which may not 
match your circumstances. One of those assumptions is that Mr Js investments will grow 
2.5% every year allowing for inflation. Which would leave Mr J with the impression his 
investments would rise the longer he leaves them invested. As the earlier information refers 
to a guaranteed income and says the final bonus will (not might or could) increase his 
pension income, I think its reasonable to say Mr J was given the impression that although 
the figure could change, Prudential had answered his question about whether hed be better 
off waiting, in the affirmative. 
So I thought it was more likely than not based on his health and financial circumstances, if 
Mr J had been warned there was any possibility the final bonus calculation could mean hed 
receive less than the figures hed been given, he wouldve taken his benefits straight away. 
So I said Prudential should put him as close as possible to that position and set out how it 
should do that. 
Responses to the provisional decision 
I asked both parties for their comments.  Mr J didnt have anything to add. 
Prudential responded disagreeing with the outcome Id reached. It reiterated that all the 
literature Mr J had received over the years had made clear the final bonus is not guaranteed. 
It explained a deferred retirement annuity plan has no actual fund value. The valuations 
quoted are transfer values based on the cost of providing the benefits due under the policy, 
and as such are sensitive to changing market conditions. The factors involved in the calculation (such as the interest rates and mortality factors) are regularly reviewed to ensure 
all With-Profits customers receive their fair share of the underlying assets. The 23 January 
2019 quote included a transfer value (not fund value) based on taking benefits immediately 
whereas the 18 February 2019 illustration was a different type of quote for taking benefits in 
the future. It was based on a range of assumptions so the two quotes should not be 
compared. So if Mr J had compared the two and decided to delay taking his benefits that 
was his decision alone. Prudential recommended he should take financial advice or consult 
Pensionwise before making a decision, but Mr J hadnt done that, neither had he called 
Prudential. And when Mr J checked his plan online in May 2019 Prudential reiterated he was 
seeing a current transfer value or cash equivalent lump sum available at that point. 
Prudential repeated they dont know the bonuses in advance so cant say if the calculation 
will have a positive or negative impact. It would be unethical and in conflict with treating 
customers fairly to forewarn one customer like Mr J of any drop in the bonus declaration 
before announcing it to the market. It acknowledged it hadnt answered Mr Js specific 
question but explained firstly that to do so would be giving advice which they arent permitted 
to do, and secondly they didnt know the answer. Prudential believes it provided Mr J with all 
the relevant information available at the time and complied with the regulatory requirements. 
So it shouldnt be held responsible for the decision Mr J made of his own accord.
So the case has been passed back to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive carefully considered Prudentials submissions but having done so I still think the 
complaint should be upheld. Theres no dispute Mr J made the decision to delay taking his 
benefits to the plan maturity date of his own accord. And he didnt follow the 
recommendation to take independent financial advice. But hed already decided to take the 
maximum tax-free cash and an annuity, and the letter said he wouldnt need to take advice 
in those circumstances. Clearly Mr J is unlikely to choose to pay for financial advice if it 
wasnt necessary, and I dont think hed have considered he needed help from Pensionwise 
as hed already made up his mind what he intended to do. The only thing he wasnt clear on 
is how much hed get when he took his benefits, and I dont think Pensionwise could tell him 
that.  
So while Mr J already knew he wanted to take tax-free cash and purchase an annuity, the 
question he asked Prudential was around the timing of taking his benefits, and he asked 
them to contact him by phone or secure message. But Prudential responded to that question 
by sending him two illustrations, with no covering letter or additional information to ensure he 
fully understood what they meant. 
Prudential says the two quotes provided to Mr J were calculated on a different basis so 
should not be compared. But I dont see how Mr J was supposed to realise that. Prudential 
provided Mr J with those two valuations without complying with his request for a phone call 
or email response to provide some context. It didnt even tell him that it couldnt know 
whether hed be better off or not. Mr J might have understood the retire immediately option 
was a firm quote but the retire at the plan maturity date was subject to change as the letter 
did make this clear. But Im not sure hed have understood the significance of the bonus rate 
recalculation taking place prior to the plan maturity date in July 2019.  
I accept Prudential is not authorised to provide financial advice and cant tell someone what 
they should do. And Prudential staff wouldnt know in advance what the new bonus rate would be or whether its likely to be better or worse than the current rate. And of course it 
wouldnt be appropriate to give Mr J (or any customer) additional information which is not in 
the public domain. I acknowledge the February 2019 illustration did warn that the income 
Mr J would receive could be different and that the standard assumptions it had used may 
not match Mr Js actual circumstances. But it didnt draw attention to the impact the 
recalculated bonus rate might have. Both quotes were calculated using the actual current 
bonus figure, but that wouldnt apply if Mr J decided to delay until July 2019, as the new 
bonus rate would be calculated in April, and that could have a positive or negative impact. 
While the relevance of the imminent recalculation of the final bonus rate might have been 
obvious to Prudential I dont think Mr J would have appreciated that a recalculated bonus 
rate could revise his quote downwards. The explanations and information Prudential 
provided make sense to me as Im familiar with pension products, but I dont think we can 
assume the same applies to Mr J. I think Prudential shouldve been aware that while it might 
be simplistic, a layman like Mr J is most likely to assume that hed be better off the longer he 
waits before accessing his pension. And this assumption was reinforced by the two 
illustrations he received. 
If Prudential cant contact its customers by phone or message as Mr J had requested, I think 
it should have at least replied to his message explaining that and encouraging him to call in 
before making a final decision. Mr J asked the question as he was concerned about his 
financial future given hed had to retire on health grounds. He made this clear in his 
admittedly brief message, so I think Prudential should have done more than simply send the 
two quotes in isolation. I think if Mr J been given any indication the application of the revised 
terminal bonus might mean the amount hed receive could be less than the quotes hed been 
given, hed have taken his benefits immediately. I see no reason hed delay for a few more 
months for modest growth which exposed him to considerable risk of a lower income. 
So having thought about everything again I see no reason to depart from the conclusions in 
my provisional decision and I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things right Prudential should put Mr J as far as possible in the position hed be in if 
hed taken his benefits prior to the recalculation of the annual bonus in April 2019 based on 
the options he actually chose (my understanding is he took the maximum tax-free cash and 
has opted for quarterly payments). The January 2019 quote was valid for 30 days so Im 
assuming the annuity would start in February 2019. 
Pass losses
To compensate Mr J for his past loss Prudential should:
Pay Mr J the amount of tax-free cash he should have received had he taken his 
benefits in February 2019, deducting the amount he actually received adding interest 
at 8% simple per year to the date of my final decision;

Pay Mr J the backdated additional income he should have received from his annuity 
payments since February 2019 to date, net of his marginal rate of tax (presumed to 
be 20%) as a lump sum, adding interest to each payment at 8% simple per annum 
from the date each payment was due to the date of my final decision;
Future lossesTo compensate Mr J for future losses Prudential should either:
top up Mr Js existing annuity to reflect the payments as they should be
or, if thats not possible:
work out the cost of buying an annuity to provide the higher amount Mr J should have 
had, with the same features as his existing annuity. 
pay Mr J a lump sum equivalent to the cost of buying the annuity above, after making 
a notional reduction to allow for the income tax that would otherwise be paid at his 
likely rate (presumed to be 20%).
Trouble and upset 
Prudential should pay Mr J a total of £150 in recognition of the inconvenience and 
worry this situation has caused him, deducting any money previously paid. 
(Prudential says it paid Mr J £50, but Mr J says he didnt accept or cash the 
cheque). 
My final decision
  My final decision is I uphold this complaint. Prudential Assurance Company Limited should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman