DRN-2878747
The complaint
Mr A complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited increased his motor insurance 
policys annual premium. 
What happened
Mr A took out a car insurance policy with Admiral. Following the renewal of the policy Mr A 
telephoned to inform it of a change to his employment. His policy was amended and his 
premium reduced. 
A few days later, Admiral carried out an audit and said he hadnt told it of a non-fault claim 
he was involved in. As a result of this, Admiral increased Mr As premium to account for the 
claim. But Mr A says Admiral increased his premium without informing him first. He says 
Admiral was already aware of the claim and failed to update its records before renewal. 
Admiral considered this to be a qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to ask him to 
pay more for the cover. It said it wrote to Mr A before it took the additional premium. But it 
said the advisor should have asked about convictions and claims when Mr A called. As such, 
it offered him £50 in compensation for the distress this caused him. 
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should not be upheld. They 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and said it was careless and thought 
Admiral was entitled to increase his premium.
Mr A doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
says:
Admiral didnt raise the issue of a qualifying misrepresentation prior to the complaint 
coming to our service. 
Admiral upheld his complaint because it acknowledged it erred by failing to update 
his renewal documentation with the claim. The information about the claim was 
already available to it. 
He did not receive the documents Admiral sent by post because the postal service in 
his local area was affected by the Covid 19 pandemic.
He wasnt informed of the additional premium until after the payment was taken.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Admiral thinks Mr A failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
didnt tell it he had been involved in an accident earlier in the year. Ive looked at the policy 
documentation he was sent in April 2020 when his policy became due for renewal. I find a 
clear question was asked and it clearly sets out that Mr A didnt have any claims made within 
the last three years. The proposal confirmation document also says, if any information is 
found to be incorrect, please contact us immediately. 
Mr A says Admiral had access to information about the claim, and it failed to include it in his 
renewal documents, but I dont agree. The claim was on another policy, and while Admiral 
may have had access to this information, it doesnt mean it should have known to include it 
in his renewal documents. Even though after the policy renewed, Admiral chose to carry out 
an audit and validate the information Mr A provided, it isnt required to. And ultimately, it was 
Mr As responsibility to ensure he didnt misrepresent information and to check the details 
Admiral had were correct.
Mr A called a few days after his policy renewed to update his employment details, and while 
I accept the advisor Mr A spoke to failed to ask the relevant question, Mr A also had a 
responsibility to inform Admiral if something was wrong but didnt do so. So, I dont find Mr A 
took reasonable care not to misrepresent information. 
Admiral provided evidence of its underwriting criteria, which shows that, if Mr A had not 
made this misrepresentation, it would have at least charged him a higher premium. This 
means Im satisfied Mr As misrepresentation was a qualifying one. I understand Mr A says 
the misrepresentation wasnt mentioned to him, but I dont think that means it didnt happen 
or that it cant be considered. 
Admiral has treated Mr As misrepresentation as careless, not reckless or deliberate, and I 
agree. I dont think Mr A acted deliberately here, nor do I have reason to believe he didnt 
care whether Admiral had the correct information. As stated in the letter it wrote to Mr A to 
inform him of the changes, mistakes happen. But this would be considered a careless 
misrepresentation under CIDRA.
As Im satisfied Mr As misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Admiral can take in accordance with CIDRA. It says an insurer can maintain the 
policy, but settle any future claims proportionately, or cancel the policy, giving the consumer 
reasonable notice. Admiral wrote to Mr A to let him know an additional payment was 
required due to the misrepresentation. In the letter, it also gave him the option of cancelling 
the policy. Subsequently, the additional premium was charged to his account and I think 
thats reasonable in the circumstances. Mr A says it didnt inform him before taking the additional payment, so Ive thought about 
whether Admiral did enough to try to notify him. Admiral provided evidence it wrote to Mr A 
at the correct address, two weeks before the payment was taken. It says this is in line with 
its usual process. While I accept Mr A may not have received their letter, Im satisfied 
Admiral sent it to him. And I cant hold it responsible for issues with the postal service at the 
time. It implemented a new process where by such updates were also sent by email. 
Unfortunately for Mr A, this was put in place after the payment had been taken. But I dont 
think that means Admiral failed in its responsibility to inform him of the increased premium. 
In fact, I find it took reasonable steps to do so.
I appreciate the additional payment may have been an inconvenience but, I find Admirals 
treated Mr A reasonably when it charged an additional premium. He still had the option to 
cancel the policy when he became aware his premium increased, but I cant see that he did. 
So, I find Mr A has benefitted from the cover the policy provided. As such I wont ask Admiral 
to refund the additional payment it took. 
Putting things right
Admiral acknowledged its advisor should have asked Mr A if he had been involved in any 
claims, it offered him £50 compensation for the distress this caused. I think this is fair 
compensation for the frustration this will have brought Mr A.   
My final decision
Admiral Insurance Company Limited already offered to pay £50 compensation and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my final decision is Admiral Insurance Company Limited should pay £50 to Mr A directly 
if it hasnt already done so.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman