DRN-3384123
The complaint
Mr G complains that Curtis Banks Limited made payments from his self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP) without his consent.
What happened
Mr G has a SIPP which is administered by Curtis Banks, and funds from the SIPP are used 
to lease a commercial property. The property is held in trust with a trustee (that is part of 
Curtis Banks), and it is understood that Mr G is a tenant of the property.
In 2020, Mr G instructed Curtis Banks to stop paying service charges relating to the property. 
That was because he had an ongoing dispute with the managing agent of the property who 
were acting on behalf of a company that own the common parts (the landlord) regarding the 
service they were providing. Curtis Banks agreed and confirmed it would not make any 
further payments without Mr Gs authority.
In January 2021, Curtis Banks brought the outstanding service charges up to date, and 
advised Mr G of this. Unhappy that Curtis Banks had gone against his instruction not to pay 
any service charges, Mr G brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought that as the owner 
of the property, Curtis Banks was entitled to pay the service charges without Mr Gs 
permission.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr G has requested to speak with me before I reached a decision. However, 
after carefully reviewing the file, Im satisfied this isnt necessary. Though Id like to reassure 
Mr G that Ive taken into account all of his submissions before reaching my decision. 
It is not in dispute that Curtis Banks advised Mr G in July 2020 that it would not pay the 
service charges without his consent. However, I note that it also advised Mr G at the time 
that as there was an agreement between the provider of the estate service and itself, it 
would be obliged to pay the service charge, even if there was an issue with the services 
provided. 
Curtis Banks then did as Mr G instructed and did not pay the service charges. However, in 
January 2021, it received an email from the managing agent of the property. This said that if 
the outstanding payment was not received immediately, they would take further action to 
recover this overdue debt, which may include passing the matter to their legal team to 
recover the payment in accordance with the terms of the lease. 
Curtis Banks took the decision to make the outstanding payment, despite Mr Gs previous 
instructions. It advised Mr G of this. It said it had added a note to its system to confirm his 
consent was required when making payments, but it did confirm that if it received any late 
payment charges, these would be borne by the SIPP. It also explained that if legal action 
was threatened, it would make an immediate payment for the invoice concerned.
I think it would have been helpful if Curtis Banks had explained this to Mr G in July 2020, 
when it initially confirmed that it wouldnt make any payments without his consent. However, 
I dont think this would have made a difference to the matter, as Curtis Banks would have 
still made the payment in January 2021, and Mr G would have still been unhappy about this. 
Although Mr G is the SIPP holder, the property is owned by the trustee, which is part of 
Curtis Banks. Ive read the Deed of Covenant between the landlord of the property and the 
trustee. This makes it clear that the trustee had agreed to pay the service charge to the 
landlord.
Also, the terms and conditions of the SIPP say:
Property management  properties owned by us

We will be responsible for the following activities:

j. settling your SIPPs share of all costs that are not the responsibility of the tenant on receipt 
of an appropriate invoice
and
Wewill manage the property in a way that does not present undue legal, commercial, 
environmental or reputational risk to us as determined by us at our sole discretion.
The service charges were Curtis Banks responsibility as the ultimate legal owner of the 
property, not Mr Gs in his capacity as the tenant. However, Curtis Banks complied with 
Mr Gs request to withhold the service charge payment for some months whilst his dispute 
with the propertys management agent was ongoing, so that he could take steps to resolve 
this. That does not seem unreasonable. 
Though, ultimately, I think Curtis Banks had a responsibility to pay the service charge in 
order to avoid the risk of penalties for late payment or litigation against it (as well as 
reputational risk). By paying the outstanding service charges, Im satisfied that Curtis Banks 
acted in line with the SIPPs terms and conditions.
It is not for this service to make a finding on whether or not the managing agent (on the 
landlords behalf) complied with the requirements to provide a service under the Deed of 
Covenant. Curtis Banks explained to Mr G that where there were issues with services 
provided, service charge providers could be taken to court, and this was a route it could go 
down. Though as this is a landlord/tenant issue, this matter would need to be resolved 
between Mr G, the managing agent on the landlords behalf, and Curtis Banks. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman