DRN-2675344
The complaint
Mrs B complains AA Underwriting Insurance company Limited unfairly declined a claim she 
made for storm damage to her property under her buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
In late 2020, Mrs B noticed water coming in from the ceiling of a bedroom following a heavy 
rainfall. She made a claim on her insurance policy as she thought the damage had been 
caused by a storm. AA declined the claim as it said there was no evidence that a storm had 
caused damage to the roof that had resulted in the water coming in. It said one of the roof 
tiles was defective. 
Unhappy with its response Mrs B complained, but as AA didnt agree to change its mind, she 
brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think AA had acted unfairly in declining the claim. She looked at the 
weather reports and noted that whilst there had been bad weather around the time the 
damage was reported, the wind speeds werent strong enough to be considered as storm. 
And she also thought AA were reasonable in saying the bad weather had highlighted an 
existing problem with the roof. So it couldnt be shown any storm was the main cause of the 
damage. 
Mrs B didnt accept that. She said the roof tile that had moved position could only have done 
so in bad weather. She also said shed suffered other damage to her property which she 
hadnt claimed for, so she wouldnt make a claim unnecessarily. She also said wind speeds 
can differ and be stronger in open spaces, which is where her property is.
As Mrs B didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs policy does cover loss or damage caused by a storm, so on the face of it; damage 
caused by a storm is potentially covered.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three questions:
has it been shown, on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the date 
the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main or dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer to all these questions is yes then the claim will succeed. But, if the answer to 
any of the above questions is no  the claim wont succeed under this section.
Mrs Bs policy doesnt define what would be considered a storm. But in its response to Mrs B 
AAs said it only considers wind speeds of 55mph or above to be storm. I consider that if AA 
wants to rely on a certain wind speed, it needs to set this out in its policy. Because it hasnt, I 
dont think it follows that it can rely on this as a basis to decline the claim. 
Ive looked at the weather reports from the time Mrs B says the damage happened. Mrs B 
reported the damage in mid-October. The weather reports from the days before she made 
the claim show wind speeds of less than 40mph. Im satisfied this wouldnt be considered 
strong enough to be classed as a storm. 
Mrs B says the storm may have happened before that time, but it took time for her to notice 
the damage. I can see AA said it looked at the weather in the weeks leading up to the claim, 
to see if there had been storm conditions. Ive also checked those records; the highest 
windspeed reported (about three weeks before the claim was made) was 45 mph. I note this 
is high and whilst by itself this wouldnt generally be considered storm conditions I accept 
Mrs Bs point that the nearest weather station is 15 miles away from her property. So I agree 
its possible the wind speed could have been slightly higher where she lives given the 
surrounding area. And even slightly higher winds would most likely be classed as storm 
conditions. 
So its possible there was a storm in the period leading up to the damage being reported. But 
even if I were to accept there were storm conditions  I still need to consider the other 
questions set out above. 
I find the nature of the damage is consistent with what a storm would typically cause in that 
Mrs B noticed water coming into her property from the roof, which could be impacted by 
storm conditions.
But having reviewed AAs report, I dont think it can be said that the storm - if there was one 
 was the main or dominant cause of the damage. So the answer to the third question is no 
and so the claim doesnt succeed. Ive explained why below.
AAs report says there are no misplaced tiles on the roof, which youd typically see in storm 
damage cases. It identified the water as coming into Mrs Bs property through a ridge tile 
that was defective. The loss adjustors view was that this was a maintenance issue.
Having looked at the photographs, I dont think AA has been unreasonable in relying on this 
report to decline the claim. Having reviewed the photographs attached to the report, the 
ridge tile in question is towards the middle of the roof. And it appears to have lifted so is not 
sitting flush with the other ridge tiles. It seems reasonable for AA to say this is where water 
has been allowed to enter the property. 
The photographs of the lifted tile show moss on it, I think this suggests its been in that 
position for some time, rather than having been moved as a result of the storm. And if the 
storm had caused this tile to lift, I think its reasonable to expect it would have caused other 
damage to the roof, such as other displaced ridge tiles. From the photographs it appears 
there could be some tape or material surrounding this ridge tile, so its possible some other 
work has been carried out on it in the past, although Mrs B hasnt said this is the case. 
Overall, having looked at everything Im persuaded that the storm has only highlighted an 
existing problem with Mrs Bs roof, rather than being the cause of the damage. 
Mrs B told us she was instructing her own engineer to provide a report. But this hasnt been 
received, so in the absence of any other evidence I dont think AA has acted unreasonably in 
declining the claim.
My final decisionMy final decision is that AA Underwriting Insurance company Limited doesnt need to do 
anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman