DRN-4428081
The complaint
Mr O complains, on behalf of a limited company G, that Tide Platform Ltd havent refunded a 
disputed transaction made from Gs account. 
What happened
Mr O is the sole director of a limited company Ill call G.
G has an account with Tide. 
On 29 October 2021 a transaction of £4,065.61 was taken from Gs account. The payment 
was to a hotel Ill call R. 
On 26 November 2021 Mr O contacted Tide and raised a dispute about the transaction. He 
advised Tide that he didnt recognise the payment and it was unathorised. 
Tide reviewed Gs statements and noticed two previous payments to R and asked Mr O 
about them. Mr O didnt directly respond to the previous payments but reiterated the new 
payment of £4,065.81 wasnt authorised. 
Tide raised a chargeback and informed Mr O that it would take 45 days before they received 
a response. 
Tide then informed Mr O that the chargeback had been rejected by the merchants bank, and 
theyd provided a copy of an invoice showing the charge of £4,065.81. 
Mr O complained to Tide about their refusal to return the disputed transaction  Tide looked 
into Mr Os concerns, and partially upheld Gs complaint. They thought their communication 
regarding the chargeback had been poor, but as the chargeback was rejected they wouldnt 
be offering to refund the money. They credited Gs account with £75 in compensation for 
poor handling of the chargeback. 
Mr O wasnt satisfied with their response so brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Os complaint. But they didnt think Tide had done 
anything wrong. They explained to Mr O that they thought hed authorised the payment and 
the chargeback had been fairly declined. 
Mr O didnt agree. In response he said:
G should have been charged £3,513.61 not £4,065.81, because of a rebate he 
received from R. He therefore argues that £4,065.81 was an unauthorised payment. 
R didnt have the right to take a payment without his specific consent. 
As Mr O didnt agree, its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, Tide can hold G liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence suggests that 
its more likely than not that Mr O, on behalf of G, made or authorised it himself. 
Im satisfied that the payment was authenticated using the appropriate security credentials 
by G. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable 
Tide to hold them liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that 
its more likely than not that Mr O, on behalf of G, consented to the transaction being made.
Mr Os argued that he didnt specifically consent to a charge of £4,065.81. Instead he was 
expecting a charge of £3,513.61 after R agreed to give him a rebate for an additional night. 
Ive considered what Mr O said, and the Payment Service Regulations (PSR) 2017. A 
transaction is considered authorised if the payer has given consent to a payment being 
taken  which Mr O did  by providing the relevant security credentials. Even if, as Mr O 
claims, the charge was higher than he specifically consented to I cant say Tide should have 
regarded the payment as unauthorised.
Ive also considered if Tide acted fairly when raising the chargeback for G. When Mr O 
contacted Tide he informed Tide that an unauthorised transaction had been taken from Gs 
account. 
Tide raised the chargeback for reasons of fraud, as Id expect them to do. Ive seen the 
evidence R provided in response to defend then chargeback, namely an invoice of 
£4,065.81 dated 29 October 2021. Mr O argues that he should have received an additional 
rebate on the £4,065.81, as agreed by R. Ive looked at the invoice and I can see a rebate is 
included. 
Tide had the option to take the case to pre-arbitration stage, but Im afraid I dont think 
theres no indication Mr O had a reasonable chance of success. On contacting Tide Mr O 
informed them that he didnt recognise the payment, however he later explained it was a 
higher charge than expected. This meant the chargeback was raised for an unrecognised 
transaction (fraud), rather than an incorrect amount, which may have had more chance of 
success.  
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I wont be asking Tide to do anything further here.  
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman