DRN-4292727
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society have unfairly reported a missed payment to 
the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
What happened
Mr K says that Nationwide recorded a missed payment marker on his basic bank account 
which he no longer uses, despite the account having no overdraft facility and therefore it is 
impossible to have missed a payment. He acknowledges the account had a negative 
balance, but because the account had no overdraft or contract of payment terms, he 
believes this marker on his credit file is invalid. Mr K made a complaint to Nationwide.
Nationwide did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. They said his account did not offer an overdraft 
facility, therefore entering an unarranged overdraft was against the terms of the account. 
They said he entered the unarranged overdraft on 19 March 2022 by being overdrawn by 
£79, then he made a payment of £40 on 14 May 2022, which didnt cover the full overdrawn 
amount, so Nationwide recorded this as a missed payment, and they were unable to remove 
this from his credit file. They said he cleared the overdrawn balance on 29 August 2022 and 
his account was closed in December 2022. Mr K brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. He said based on the terms of the account, 
Nationwide were within their rights to add the marker to his credit file, as there were long 
periods when he was overdrawn, and he was not making payments to clear the arrears.
Mr K asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said the terms and conditions clearly state that for an account which enters an 
unarranged overdraft, they will notify the customer within 14 days and again at 28 days 
stating repayment terms, but this did not happen, so he was not aware of the account status 
until he went to close the account. He said as no payment terms were set by Nationwide 
then no terms could be met on his part. Mr K said their terms were not clear and he did not 
receive his statements as they were sent via online banking which he didnt have access to. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Ks complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Ive considered the terms of the account and what Mr K has said about Nationwide notifying 
the customer within 14 days and again at 28 days. But I believe the part that Mr K is referring 
to regarding the 14 days is regarding them taking money from any other account he has with 
them to repay the debt. I say this because the terms say If any money you owe us is 
overdue for payment we may use any money you have in any of your accounts with us to 
reduce or repay what you owe. We can do this where you have accounts in your name only, 
as well as with accounts you hold jointly with another person. Well tell you at least 14 days 
before the first time we exercise this right.
So Im satisfied this doesnt apply here as Nationwide werent offsetting the debt with money 
from any of Mr Ks other accounts he had with them (if any). As the account has no overdraft 
facility, then any unarranged overdraft would be overdue for payment, as it would be a 
breach of the terms to make a payment when there werent funds available. I say this 
because the terms have a section which says I havent got enough money in my account to 
make a payment, can I do it anyway?
This section says No, you should try and avoid making payments out of your account if you 
dont have enough money to cover it. You are not allowed to take more money out of your 
account or spend more money on your card than you have in your account (although there 
may be some occasions when we cannot prevent the account going into an unarranged 
overdraft for example if you pay for things and the purchase system used by a merchant 
does not send us a request for prior authorisation of the payment or we are unable to verify 
the prior authorisation of the payment).
So as Mr K did not have sufficient funds to make the payment, he should not have used his 
card to make the payment. The terms also do state If your account does go into an 
unarranged overdraft, we expect you to take reasonable steps to repay that money as soon 
as you can - going into an unarranged overdraft is a breach of the account terms and 
conditions. But Im not persuaded the words saying we expect you to take reasonable 
steps to repay that money as soon as you can negates Nationwides obligation to report 
accurate information to the CRAs. 
The terms show that Nationwide will share information with other organisations. And its 
noted that holding his account would be documented on his credit file. The terms show 
where he can find out information about How Nationwide uses your Information. Ive looked 
at this document. Ive considered what Mr K has said about this showing they would send a 
notice that gives him 28 days to bring his payments up to date. But Im not persuaded that 
this section is relevant to Mr Ks circumstances here. I say this because this section is 
regarding Information about defaults. But Mr Ks account did not default, and it was not due 
to be defaulted at the time the arrears were reported to the CRAs. This is part of a wider 
section regarding helping Mr K in challenging times, but Nationwide confirmed to our service 
that Mr K never got in touch regarding his debt, so no payment arrangement was made.
Ive considered what Mr K has said about only finding out the account status when he closed 
the account as he didnt have access to his statements. But it would be Mr Ks responsibility 
to let Nationwide know if he could not access his statements. Nationwide could have 
changed the statements to be delivered by post if Mr K did not want to use (or was unable to 
use) online banking as their terms show they can do this (and the terms also show they will 
still send him certain communication by post).
I can see from Mr Ks statement that on 18 March 2022 he credited £33 to his Nationwide 
account and on the same day he made a payment back in his same name. So as he made 
the payment from Nationwide, he reasonably ought to have been aware that he had a 
balance of £1 in his account before he made a payment of £80 the following day on 19 
March 2022, which would create an unauthorised overdraft. Looking at Mr Ks statements 
from December 2021 up until that point, his highest balance in his account was £1. So Im 
not persuaded that he should have been under the impression he had enough money in his 
account to make the £80 payment. I can also see communications that Nationwide have sent to Mr K about the unarranged 
overdraft. The letter shows the same address as he provided our service and has a date of 
11 May 2022 from Nationwides collections and recoveries team. The letter tells Mr K that 
We need to let Credit Reference Agencies know if your account goes into an unarranged 
overdraft. This can be bad for your credit rating and might make it hard to get credit in the 
future. The letter also has a section which says What does being over my agreed limit 
mean for my credit rating? This section includes the wording A credit rating is a tool used 
by lenders to help them decide if you are eligible for a particular credit product such as an 
overdraft, credit card, loan or mortgage. Companies use your credit rating to estimate how 
likely you are to pay back the debt. If you exceed your current account limit, this is reported 
to the Credit Reference Agencies and means you may be less likely to be offered credit in 
the future.
Mr K did make a payment of £40 on 14 May 2022, which could indicate he did receive 
Nationwides letter they sent him, although I accept this could be coincidental, even if this 
was his first payment into the account since he breached the terms of the account by trying 
to pay for something he didnt have the money for. And Nationwide sent him a follow up 
letter on 1 June saying We wrote to you recently to let you know your account balance had 
gone below zero and again it said We need to let Credit Reference Agencies know if your 
account goes into an unarranged overdraft. So as Mr Ks overdraft limit was £0 and he 
exceeded this limit by making a payment which created an unarranged overdraft, then 
Nationwide reported this to the CRAs. Im satisfied that Nationwide gave the CRAs 
information that his account was in an unarranged overdraft as it would be their obligation to 
report account activity to the CRAs.
Mr K may wish to consider registering a notice of correction with the CRAs to explain what 
happened here. This is a short explanatory note that he can add to an entry on his credit file, 
to explain the background to that entry. So anyone who searches his credit report, would see 
the notice of correction and take the notice into account if they viewed his credit file. 
Prospective lenders will each consider a notice like this differently and it isn't a guarantee 
that they will put the underlying payment information to one side. But given how strongly Mr 
K feels here - it is an option that is open to him. He would need to contact the CRAs to do 
this. But as Nationwide are obliged to report the account activity to the CRAs, it follows I 
dont require Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman