DRN-3269511
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that she was mis-sold a PEP (now referred to as an ISA) by a 
predecessor scheme of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) in 1998. 
Mrs B is being presented by a claims management company (CMC), but for ease I have 
referred to her throughout. 
What happened
Mrs B took out the ISA with a £5,000 investment into the UK equity fund in 1998. The ISA 
remained invested until it was surrendered in May 2008 for £7,442.22.
Mrs B complained in March 2020 about several products that she felt had been mis-sold to 
her by Aviva. She said that the ISA sold to her had not matched her attitude to risk at the 
time. 
Aviva responded to say that they didnt think she had brought her complaint about any of the 
products within time. It was established through a previous jurisdiction decision, that only her 
complaint about the ISA sold to her in 1998 was within our jurisdiction. 
An Investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think that it had been mis-sold. She said 
that from the information available, she couldnt say an ISA wrapper recommendation was 
unsuitable. She also said that the suitability letter had persuaded her that Mrs B had elected 
the funds inside the ISA herself. She therefore couldnt find Aviva responsible for their 
suitability. 
Mrs B responded through her CMC to say that they felt that the funds carried too much risk 
for her at the time of sale and that it was the role of the advisor to say if they were 
unsuitable. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Unfortunately, due to the length of time that has passed since the sale, we dont have much 
information available to show everything that was discussed. However, we do have a copy of 
the fact find, suitability letter and application form. 
What we do know from what we have, is that Mrs B was retired, having paid off her 
mortgage and with approximately £40,000 in savings. She was looking to invest £10,000 of 
this for the medium to long term in a tax efficient way, to generate a better return than the 
deposit accounts it was in. Mrs Bs attitude to risk was recorded as three on a scale of one to 
five. With three being fairly conservative but I will accept a reasonable level of risk. 
Firstly, Mrs B was recommended to invest inside an ISA. Considering her requirement for a 
tax efficient way to save, I think that was suitable advice. Although she was retired, she 
could have still received the benefits of investing this way and I dont find there was anything 
wrong in recommending it. 
Inside the ISA wrapper, Mrs B invested into a UK Equity Fund. Mrs B and her CMC have 
said that despite growth of almost 50% in the approximate ten years that it remained 
invested, it carried too much risk for her circumstances at the time. However, I dont agree. 
I appreciate that Mrs B was retired and so wouldnt have been able to recover any losses 
brought on by this investment. However, she was previously invested in Building Society 
deposit accounts. She was recorded as wanting a better return from 25% of her savings and 
ultimately half of this (£5,000) went into an ISA invested into UK Equity companies. This was 
about 12% of her savings and I am satisfied it was a suitable recommendation. 
Further to this, it is recorded by the advisor in the Fact Find that you confirmed that you 
preferred to make your own fund choice selection. I provided you with a fund brochure and 
after reviewing the various funds, their relative risks and investment objectives, you have 
selected the Equity Income Fund. 
I am not sure why Mrs B would pay for advice and choose her own fund. Although she was 
advised about a separate product. However, without any more information from the sale, I 
cant be sure. I do agree with the CMC that if the fund was not suitable, then I would have 
expected the advisor to have made clear in the fact find and suitability letter that they didnt 
agree with the wishes of the consumer. However, in this case I dont agree that the fund 
carried too much risk for Mrs Bs circumstances and needs at that time. 
In summary, whilst Mrs B appears to have elected the fund for her ISA investment, I agree 
that Aviva still have responsibility for advising of its suitability. Despite that, I find the fund 
and ISA wrapper to be suitable recommendations.
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2022. 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman