DRN-2887355
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the time ReAssure Limited took to respond to a request for 
information about their whole-of-life policy. 
What happened
At the start of 2019, Mr and Mrs L asked their financial adviser to review the life policies they 
held. This was to try and consolidate them and reduce the premiums they were paying 
overall.
Mrs and Mrs Ls financial adviser asked for the details of these policies from the different 
providers, including the plan Mr and Mrs L held with ReAssure. However, this took some 
time and Mr and Mrs L believed that the information ReAssure gave was incorrect and 
contradictory  including that their policy was on a joint life, first death basis when it would 
pay out on both deaths. They didnt feel they had all the information they needed until 
February 2020 and said that this held up the recommendations of their financial adviser and 
therefore their objective to reduce the premiums they were paying. 
Mr and Mrs L complained. They felt the delays had caused them to suffer financially and the 
misleading information caused them anxiety and stress, as well as inconvenience in the time 
they had to spend reviewing their records.
 
ReAssure apologised for the service Mr and Mrs L had received. It said that their financial 
adviser had been in regular contact and accepted that it hadnt provided information in a 
timely way. It also apologised that the incorrect information had been given about the death 
benefit their policy gave them. It said it would send the full information to the financial adviser 
and offered to pay Mr and Mrs L £175 for their inconvenience. 
But Mr and Mrs L considered this offer was derisory. They said their inability to make 
decisions because of the inaccurate information from ReAssure had cost them financially 
and caused significant emotional distress.
ReAssure again apologised. It said that the details of what had happened had been shared 
with senior managers and team managers to help identify training needs. It offered to 
increase the compensation to £250. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think ReAssure needed to do 
anything more. She said she understood why Mr and Mrs L would want to have all the 
correct information about their policy before it was reviewed by their financial adviser, 
particularly as the aim of this was to see what cover they had and whether they could save 
money on the cost of this. But she also said that Mr and Mrs L hadnt made any changes to 
their cover since they received the correct information about their policy from ReAssure 
because of the pandemic, which meant their priorities changed.
 
The investigator said that, in looking at how to put things right, she would look at what 
arrangements had been made since the correct information had been provided to see what 
financial loss there had been. But, as Mr and Mrs L hadnt made any changes, she felt she 
couldnt fairly say that ReAssure were responsible for any financial loss after Mr and Mrs L 
had the correct information about their policy.
 
The investigator accepted that ReAssure took too long to confirm the right information to Mr 
and Mrs Ls financial adviser. And she thought the £250 ReAssure had offered Mr and Mrs L 
was fair compensation for this. The investigator said that the financial advisers service fees 
were fixed so werent affected by any additional work they had to do to get the right policy 
information from ReAssure. So the investigator didnt think it would be fair to ask ReAssure 
to contribute to this cost.
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept the investigators findings. They said that ReAssures repeated 
errors over a year period meant that they were unable to implement decisions which resulted 
in them paying more premiums than they wanted. The whole-of-life policy premiums rise so 
getting accurate information about it was critical. Mr and Mrs L said that ReAssure delayed 
in them getting new recommendations which impacted on their ability to make decisions 
about their life cover and be able to reduce their premiums. Mr and Mrs L said that if 
ReAssure had responded correctly in March 2019, when the information was originally 
requested, their financial position would have been different. The delay cost them and then 
the pandemic had begun once they didnt get the information they needed, so they had other 
priorities. They said that the fact that they hadnt made the changes didnt mean they werent 
financially worse off.
 
Mr and Mrs L said that £250 to recognise the financial impact, mental stress and wasted 
time caused by ReAssure was laughable. They said that rearranging their life policies is a 
complex matter, and the actions of ReAssure had cost them money and caused extreme 
distress. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can fully appreciate the frustration and stress Mr and Mrs L have experienced through the 
delays in ReAssure confirming the correct details of their whole-of-life policy to their financial 
adviser. And I understand why this information was important to allow their financial adviser 
to review their life policies as they wanted, with the aim of reducing the premiums they were 
paying towards them.
And ReAssure has acknowledged that the service Mr and Mrs L received relating to this was 
poor, particularly when it gave the wrong details that the policy was held on a joint life, first 
death basis when it provided cover on the deaths of both Mr and Mrs L separately. This 
could have had an impact on their financial advisers recommendations to them and also to 
their future planning.
It took ReAssure nearly a year to let Mr and Mrs Ls financial adviser have all of the 
information they asked for, which I do agree was far too long a time. Their financial adviser 
needed to contact ReAssure a number of times for clarification, and Mr and Mrs L have told 
us that they also contacted ReAssure. So I can see that this will have been inconvenient for 
them, particularly when they feel this policy represents a significant amount of the outgoings 
they were looking to save.However, without wishing to underestimate the impact of this delay and the mistake with the 
details of the policy, ReAssure couldnt have foreseen the further issue this caused for Mr 
and Mrs L by the outbreak of the pandemic. I understand that the correct level of detail and 
information was provided to the financial adviser in February 2020. So whilst I can fully 
understand how the matter of their financial review then became a lower priority for them 
and they may have wished to see their complaint resolved before they made any decisions 
for their whole-of-life policy, I dont think ReAssure could be said to be responsible for this 
extended time in which Mr and Mrs L felt they werent able to act on any recommendations 
their financial adviser may have made for them.
ReAssure should have provided the information about their whole-of-life policies some 
months before it did. And this should have been without the need for chasers and prompts 
from them or their financial adviser. But ReAssure has offered to pay Mr and Mrs L £250 to 
recognise these delays, and I think this represents fair compensation. 
As the investigator has said, in these circumstances, it is difficult to say with any certainty 
what the direct financial impact would have been for Mr and Mrs L if they had been able to 
make changes to their portfolio of life insurance earlier. And it is difficult to make any 
comparison with what Mr and Mrs Ls outgoings in terms of their life policy premiums may 
have been, without it being clear what they wouldve done differently. 
Although I appreciate the timing and the difficult family circumstances Mr and Mrs L 
experienced during the start of the pandemic; they wouldve had the opportunity at that stage 
to look to mitigate any potential further loss through higher outgoings, if their financial 
advisers recommendations included such a consolidation or saving in their premiums. So 
even if I accept that Mr and Mrs Ls financial adviser would have been able to meet their 
objective to save on the premiums they were paying; then any perceived financial loss at this 
stage would be a theoretical one on the basis that they then didnt go ahead with any such 
changes. From the information provided, it also isnt clear how any such recommendation 
would have affected their whole-of-life policy with ReAssure, or whether this would have 
remained in place so their policy premiums would have continued. 
From the information Mr and Mrs L have provided, it seems the fee they paid for their full 
financial review was fixed and wasnt increased by any additional work the adviser may have 
needed to do to get the information they wanted from ReAssure about their whole-of-life 
policy. I also understand that the adviser dealing with Mr and Mrs Ls finances through this 
time is no longer doing so. I dont think it would be fair to recommend that ReAssure should 
pay an amount towards the fee in these circumstances. 
I am sorry for the issues Mr and Mrs L experienced in getting the information they wanted 
about their whole-of-life policies and that the delay with this has caused them worry, upset 
and inconvenience. But, although I appreciate Mr and Mrs L feel that a higher level of 
compensation should be awarded to reflect the cost savings they believe they couldve 
made, I feel that the £250 ReAssure has already offered them represents fair compensation 
for the inaccuracies and delays with the information about their whole-of-life policy being 
provided to their financial adviser. 
My final decision
My decision is that ReAssure Limited should pay Mr and Mrs L £250, as it has already 
offered to do.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman