DRN-3311238
The complaint
Mr T complains that MBNA Limited unfairly turned down his claims under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In May 2008 Mr T entered into a timeshare agreement with a timeshare provider 
(Business A). The timeshare cost $2,100 and Mr T paid in monthly instalments of $175 
using his MBNA credit card until May 2009.
 
In March 2018 Mr T approached MBNA via a representative to raise a claim under section 
75 and section 140A of the CCA, because he used his MBNA credit card to purchase the 
timeshare. In summary, Mr Ts representative said Business A made numerous statements 
during the sale that later turned out to be untrue, so Mr T felt the product was 
misrepresented to him. They also said undue pressure was applied during the sale, Mr T 
was given inaccurate information about the product and its usefulness, and Business A 
failed to comply with relevant regulations during the sale, which caused unfairness.
 
In response, MBNA said Mr T raised his claims too late. It said he had six years from the 
date of the cause of action to bring his claims. MBNA considered this to be the date the 
contract was entered into on 1 May 2008, at the latest, although he had also made payments 
to Business A using his MBNA credit card before this point (from 2006). Mr T complained 
and MBNA confirmed its position that it believed his claims were time-barred.
 
Still unhappy with MBNAs response, Mr T referred his complaint to our service via his 
representative. One of our investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint but he didnt uphold it. 
He considered the relevant time limits under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA) and explained 
why he thought it likely that Mr T raised his claims out of time. So, he didnt think MBNA 
acted unfairly in concluding that Mr T had brought his claims too late. 
In response, Mr Ts representative said the date the investigator relied on was incorrect and 
that the time limit would run from when Mr T had knowledge of the misrepresentation  not 
from when the transaction was incepted. 
Mr T also responded directly to say that he purchased the timeshare back in 2004 and was 
told that all apartments would be the same as the showroom and that the property was 
deeded. He said he was told the value would increase and the maintenance charges were 
low, so it would be a fantastic investment and something that could be passed on to his 
children or sold in the future at a profit. He said they also told him a new pool and other 
facilities would be built. Mr T said he had doubts after a couple of days, but Business A 
offered him a discount, so he proceeded with the purchase. 
He said his first visit was fine, other than the facilities he was told about werent built. But the 
next visit he was downgraded to lower level accommodation. He then upgraded his 
membership. Mr T said he noticed the maintenance fees creeping up and by 2015 he said 
they were $1,000. So, he decided to sell the timeshare  but couldnt. He said after he 
stopped paying the maintenance fees his timeshare was sold back to Business A. 
Mr T said he hoped there is some claim somewhere that can be made for all this fraud. He 
also explained hed had an extremely difficult time last year and experienced a great deal of 
loss. He said he is now having to live frugally and recovering the thousands of pounds he 
has lost would help to improve his standard of living. 
MBNA added that even going from the date of the last payment Mr T made to Business A for 
the timeshare purchase, which was on 3 May 2009, it still believed Mr Ts claim was brought 
outside of the time limits under the LA.
Because the parties disagreed, the case was referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell MBNA to do anything further to resolve the 
matter and Ive explained why below.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about 
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. 
And I want to assure Mr T, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and 
sent to us. But Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and 
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Was the claim under section 75 of the CCA brought in time?
Mr T says that Business A misrepresented a number of points in relation to the 
timeshare agreement he purchased, so he says MBNA is jointly liable under section 75 
of the CCA. But if MBNA could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set 
out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I 
should make it clear, however, that Im not deciding if any right that Mr T may have to 
bring these claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this 
decision Im considering if MBNA has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr Ts 
claims by relying on the LA.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under section 2(1) of 
the Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 
1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by section 2 of the LA or an 
action brought for a sum recoverable by statute within section 9 of the LA. Under both of 
those provisions, a claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued.
In this case, Mr T brought a like claim for misrepresentation against MBNA under section 
75 of the CCA. That claim was brought under the CCA, so would be covered by section 9 
of the LA. Again, it means Mr T had six years from the date on which the cause of action 
accrued to bring a claim.The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr Ts case, thats when he could have brought a claim 
for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against MBNA. I think that was 
the date he entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare. It was at that time that he 
entered into an agreement based, he says, on the misrepresentations of Business A. Mr T 
says, had the misrepresentations not been made, they wouldnt have entered into the 
contract to buy the timeshare. So, it was on that day that he suffered a loss.
Mr T said he entered into an earlier timeshare agreement with Business A in 2004, and 
MBNA has said he made payments to Business A using his credit card from 2006 onwards. 
However, in Mr Ts original claim and in his complaint form to our service, his representative 
said the date of sale was 1 May 2008 and provided a copy of the timeshare agreement he 
entered into at that time. So, for the purposes of this complaint, I think its fair to go by the 
date of the latest timeshare agreement on 1 May 2008. This means Mr T had six years from 
that date to bring a claim. But he didnt try to contact MBNA about his claim until March 
2018, which was outside of the time limit set out in the LA. 
I also note Mr T paid for the timeshare in instalments, rather than paying the full purchase 
price upfront. But even if I considered the six year time limit started from the date the final 
payment was made in May 2009, Mr Ts claim would still have been brought too late in 
March 2018. So, overall, I think MBNA acted fairly in turning down Mr Ts claim on this 
basis.
The claim under section 140A of the CCA
Under section 140A a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with 
a credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the 
creditor arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make 
such a determination, but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
The LA applies to a claim under section 140A of the CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel 
[2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering section 140A of the CCA, the time for 
limitation purposes ran from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still 
running at the time the claim was made. 
MBNA has shown that the last payment Mr T made to Business A using his credit card was 
in May 2009, and that Mr T cleared the entire balance on his credit card, including the 
payments he made to Business A, in October 2009. He no longer owed any money under 
his credit agreement from that point onward and his account was marked as expired in 
April 2011. So, like the investigator, I think his relationship with MBNA, in relation to the 
funds he borrowed to purchase the timeshare membership, ended on the date he settled 
his account with them (on 12 October 2009). So, the limitation period under the LA started 
to run from that point. 
As with an action under section 75 of the CCA, the relevant limitation period under the LA 
is six years, so Mr T would have to bring an action within six years from that date. As he 
didnt do that, I think he brought his claim too late. 
MBNA didnt assess any section 140A claim and I think it should have done so, so I cant
say it acted fairly in not responding to the claim. But for the reasons set out above, I dont
think it would have upheld the claim if it had properly considered it. So, I dont think it needs
to do anything further.Mr Ts arguments on limitation
I note Mr Ts representative argued that the time limit should start from the date of 
knowledge, rather than the date of the agreement. And I have considered this point.
Under section 11A of the LA time doesnt start to run for limitation purposes until the 
claimant first had the relevant knowledge. This provision is titled Actions in respect of 
defective products and applies to an action for damages by virtue of Part 1 of the 
Consumer Protection Act 1987. However, this applies to actions that arise out of products 
and not services such as timeshares, so I dont think it assists Mr T. Neither in my view 
does section 14 of the LA, which also refers to the date of knowledge but simply defines 
what is meant by date of knowledge in other provisions that dont apply to Mr Ts claim.
Section 14A of the LA also provides a Special time limit for negligence actions where 
facts relevant to cause of action are not known at date of accrual (as per the title of 
that section). But Im not persuaded that section 14A applies to Mr Ts claim either. That 
provision provides for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be made. 
Looking at what happened, when Mr T purchased the timeshare, I think there was an 
obligation to give Mr T sufficient, appropriate, and timely information to enable him to make 
an informed choice. But Im not persuaded a duty of care arose or advice was provided 
that could give rise to a claim to which section 14A of the LA could apply.
Ive also considered everything Mr T said in response to the investigators view and Ive 
thought about whether there are any other provisions under the LA that could extend the 
relevant time limits. But, having considered them, I dont think theres anything that would 
assist Mr T.
Overall, although I think MBNA ought to have responded to Mr Ts section 140A claim, I 
think MBNA fairly considered the things it needed to when it said Mr T brought his claim 
too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr T may 
have against the supplier or MBNA has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from 
the information available, any claim that Mr T might have against MBNA has most likely 
exceeded the time limits set out in the LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account 
in these circumstances. So, I am not persuaded that MBNA acted unfairly in declining 
Mr Ts claims under the CCA. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr T as he feels he has lost a lot of 
money through the purchase of the timeshare and I am sorry to hear about his recent 
circumstances. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think MBNA did anything wrong 
by relying on the LA to decline his claims. This means it wouldnt be fair for me to ask it to 
do anything further in response to Mr Ts complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Joanna Brown
Ombudsman