DRN-2622695
The complaint
Ms E complained that she was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by National Counties Building Society (National Counties).
What happened
Ms E took out a mortgage in 1999, and then bought the PPI when she took out a further 
advance in March 2003. National Counties and Ms E agreed that this was a postal 
application, but Ms E said she was advised to take the PPI, whereas National Counties said 
it had not offered advice. Ms E said that she felt she had to take the PPI. 
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Ms E at a monthly cost 
of £7.04, after an initial period of six months where the cover was free of charge. The 
monthly benefit was £222.65, and if Ms E had made a successful claim, the policy couldve 
paid out for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms E disagreed, and asked that 
it be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Es complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms E sent in copies of a number of documents that shed received from National Counties in 
relation to PPI, and also copies of the PPI application form and insurance certificate from 
2003. I also have a copy of the further advance offer from 2003. 
I can see that the tone of the documents is designed to encourage readers to consider PPI, 
and some documents have references to the policy being recommended. However, these 
statements are general and do not, in themselves, mean that a personal recommendation 
will be offered to customers in relation to PPI. 
In this case, the PPI application seems to have been completed by post, and I have no 
evidence of any involvement by a National Counties representative in the sale. So Ive no 
reason to think that National Counties made a personal recommendation to Ms E, based on 
her individual circumstances. So National Counties didnt need to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Ms E, but it should have given her enough information for her to make an 
informed decision about it. 
Ive also thought about what Ms E said about feeling compelled to take the PPI, which, in 
summary, she said was based on the cumulative effect of several pieces of correspondence 
since the initial mortgage was granted in 1999, and on the content of letters sent to her at 
the time of her further advance application in 2003, including the disclaimer on the PPI 
application form. This disclaimer required the applicant to confirm that, if declining the PPI, 
they had the means to cover the mortgage repayments in the event of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
Again, I can see that the wording was designed to encourage applicants to consider how 
they would make the mortgage repayments if they couldnt work. But I dont think it removed 
the choice about whether to take it. 
This was a postal application, and Ms E sent in copies of the PPI information booklet and 
policy document  it looks as though she received these with the application form. I cant see 
that Ms E wouldve been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations in the policy. 
There are also some cost details, along with an example of a premium calculation, so I think 
Ms E wouldve had some idea of the cost of the cover for her. And Ive no evidence to 
suggest the premium was unaffordable for her.
Ms E told us that she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from her employer of between three 
and six months pay, and she had some savings she couldve relied on. However, I think Ms 
E couldve found it difficult to make the mortgage repayments once her sick pay ended, or if 
shed lost her job, and Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months 
per claim - longer than her sick pay wouldve continued  allowing her to use her savings for 
her everyday living expenses. So I think the PPI couldve provided a useful benefit if she was 
unable to work.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms E, as I can see she feel strongly about this, but my conclusion is 
that, on the evidence I have, I cant fairly say the PPI was mis-sold
.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Es complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman