DRN-3024038
The complaint
Miss M complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly and provided her with a 
loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Loans 2 Go provided a loan to Miss M as follows: 
Date Loan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repaymentAPR Total payable 
24/11/2019 £340 18
months£77.71 1,013.2 % £1,398.78
As far as I am aware, the loan hasnt yet been repaid and the information I've seen indicates 
that after taking out this loan Miss M entered into a debt management plan. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Loans 2 Go should have 
provided Miss M with the loan as he thought that her borrowing history and the amount of 
disposable income she would have left after paying the loan meant it wasnt sustainably 
affordable for her. 
Loans 2 Go didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. It mainly said that the buffer of 
10% of Miss Ms verified income that it had added into its calculations was extra protection 
and this, plus the absence of any defaults or missed payments on her credit file, supported 
its lending decision. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
There are some key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss M would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If so, did Loans 2 Go 
make a fair lending decision?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Loans 2 Go needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss M 
irresponsibly. The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or 
affordability check. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so Loans 2 Go had to think 
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Miss M.
Loans 2 Go had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss M would be able repay her loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Loans 
2 Go had to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, 
the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts and the borrowers overall financial 
circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Loans 2 Go was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loan  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.
This is because the regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
I have reviewed the information Loans 2 Go gathered when it agreed to provide this loan. It 
did some background checks and verified that Miss Ms minimum income was approximately 
£1,384 monthly. After looking at the credit report information it gathered, Loans 2 Go 
increased the overall amount Miss M had said she was spending each month and allowed 
for a total monthly expenditure figure of around £1,168. It also added a buffer of around 
10% of Miss Ms verified income to her expenditure in order to allow for any fluctuations in 
her monthly income or outgoings. Loans 2 Go said that the contractual loan repayment for 
this loan should have been affordable.
Like our adjudicator, I think the checks Loans 2 Go carried out were reasonable and 
proportionate in the particular circumstances of this loan.
But Loans 2 Go was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably make her loan 
repayments over the loan term  not just whether the loan payments looked affordable on 
a strict pounds and pence calculation. I dont think that Loans 2 Go made a fair lending 
decision on this occasion.
The information gathered by Loans 2 Go showed that Miss M had regularly been borrowing 
from a number of high cost short term lenders. Within the previous nine months or so, Loans 
2 Gos credit checks showed that Miss M had already taken out at least 8 short term high 
cost loans. They had all been repaid without any obvious signs of payment problems as Loans 2 Go says. But whilst I've thought carefully about what Loans 2 Go has said, this 
doesnt affect my view overall. 
I think Loans 2 Go wouldve been able to see that Miss Ms loan application was a 
continuation of what seemed to be a pattern of reliance on this type of credit. 
Looking at the creditor repayments Loans 2 Go recorded after reviewing the information it 
had gathered, this appears to show that Miss M was spending more than £500 each month 
on credit  which was already a large part of her disposable income.
I've taken into account that Miss M told Loans 2 Go that the purpose of this loan was debt 
consolidation  in other words, she would use it to pay off other debt.
But Loans 2 Go hasnt shown me it knew which debt was going to be repaid. And its loan 
was paid direct to Miss M, so it didnt have control over whether it would in fact be used to 
pay off other credit. 
Im also mindful that the loan amount wasnt enough to make any real impression on the 
overall amount of Miss Ms debt  it was insufficient to pay her two largest and most 
expensive loans which cost her £450 each month and it looked like she would be paying 
both of these for at least the next 18 months while she expected to be paying the monthly 
repayments of £77.71 on this loan. So this meant that even if Miss M used her Loans 2 Go 
loan to repay some of her other debt, she would now likely still be spending at least 40% or 
so of her income on servicing debt  and this figure didnt include payments she would need 
to make towards credit card debt or a mail order account. I think this was such a significant 
proportion of Miss Ms monthly income needed to service debt that Loans 2 Go couldnt 
reasonably say that it was likely that Miss M would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable 
way over the whole loan term. 
I agree with our adjudicator that the 10% buffer Loans 2 Go included in its affordability 
calculations isnt enough of a reason for me not to uphold the complaint. 
And given that Miss Ms recent borrowing track record suggested she was repeatedly 
borrowing, I think it should have realised that it looked like she was facing financial 
difficulties. 
Thinking about all of this information, I dont think Loans 2 Go could reasonably have 
satisfied itself that providing this loan to Miss M wouldnt put her in a worse position by 
increasing her overall debts. 
And even if Miss M had used this loan to repay some existing debt, I dont think Loans 2 Go 
was able to safely say this wouldve improved her overall position sufficiently to achieve a 
significant and sustainable improvement in her financial situation. 
I think, taking all this into account, Loans 2 Go ought reasonably to have been aware that 
taking further, costly lending was unlikely to help Miss M and more likely to potentially 
increase her indebtedness over the longer term. 
So, I am planning on upholding Miss Ms complaint that she should not have been given the 
loan.
I havent seen anything which makes me think that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Miss M in some other way. But taking everything into account, I dont 
think Loans 2 Go should have agreed to provide the loan to Miss M. As Miss M has been further indebted with an expensive loan that she shouldnt have 
been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what Loans 2 Go did 
wrong. So, I think Loans 2 Go needs to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Both parties have confirmed they have nothing further to add and they are awaiting my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss M to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid extra for lending that should 
not have been provided to her. In line with this Services approach, Miss M shouldnt repay 
more than the capital amount she borrowed. 
If Loans 2 Go has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. 
Otherwise, Loans 2 Go should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined 
below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss M received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Miss M made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss M having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss M  bearing in mind the need 
to treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ms credit file regarding this loan 
when it is paid. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for 
one.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go to take the steps I've set out above to put 
things right for Miss M. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman