DRN-4301351
The complaint
Mrs M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) hasnt refunded her after she 
fell victim to a scam.
 
What happened
Mrs M was interested and has described how she needed the money and didnt think shed 
be approved for credit elsewhere. She responded to the email to say shed like to take the 
loan. But the email and the contact that followed all came from a scammer.
Mrs M was then asked to make a series of payments to cover various fees. The reasons for 
needing to make payment included: direct debit fees, legal fees, and money laundering fees. 
These had to be paid either by faster payment (bank transfer)  with Mrs M being given a 
total of five different accounts to pay  and through the purchasing of gift cards and mobile 
top-ups using Mrs Ms debit card.
In total she sent over £1,600 to the fraudsters, across 19 different payments between 
6 and 8 December 2022.
Mrs M says she realised shed been scammed when she was asked to pay a final money 
laundering fee. She contacted RBS to report the scam. 
When Mrs M first reported the scam, she told RBS someone had been calling her pretending 
to be from the business where another of her current accounts is held. But, later, Mrs M told 
RBS that the money had been sent to secure a loan.
RBS looked into what had happened and said it wouldnt refund any of the transactions. In 
its final response of 21 December 2022 RBS acknowledged both versions of events but said 
that Mrs M hadnt done enough to check that the person(s) she was speaking with were 
genuine.  
Mrs M was unhappy with RBS response and so brought her complaint to this service, where 
one of our investigators considered whether RBS had given a fair and reasonable response 
to the complaint.
Our investigator found that RBS hadnt done anything wrong and that it was fair and 
reasonable for the scam claim to be denied. He agreed that Mrs M ought to have questioned 
the legitimacy of what she was being offered and why she was being asked to pay fees for a 
loan, especially as those fees were going to multiple payees through different methods.
He also thought about whether RBS ought to have done more to protect Mrs M through 
interventions and warnings. He didnt think there was such an apparent scam risk that RBS 
had to do more than it did. He also noted that RBS spoke to Mrs M on 8 December 2022 to 
question a payment of £141 and, in that call, Mrs M lied about the payment purpose. She 
said she was buying trainers from a friend, and that other transactions were for similar 
purposes. She agreed the £141 payment could be cancelled as she could just visit her friend 
instead. 
Mrs M disagreed. She felt she should be refunded as shed been the innocent victim of a 
scam. The case has been referred to me as a result.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M but Im not upholding her complaint, and for broadly the same 
reasons as our investigator. In making these findings Im not saying that I doubt whether 
Mrs M has been the victim of a scam. And Im not saying she hasnt unfairly lost money. But 
what I cant find is that its for RBS to refund her loss. It isnt the case that being the victim of 
a scam means a customer will always get their money back. 
I should set out from the start that it hasnt been possible for me to determine exactly what 
has happened in Mrs Ms case. That is always difficult in any case, and its not necessary for 
me to do so. I mention it here though because the difficulty Ive had has come down to 
Mrs M seeming to have changed her version of events, regarding what the scam was. 
There are call recordings where Mrs M clearly tells RBS she was sending the lost money as 
a result of contact with a scammer posing as a different financial business, where another of 
her current accounts is held. She clearly told RBS she was sending money to secure the 
opening of her new account.
Her version of events later changes to describe the loan application scam. And the evidence 
that Mrs M has provided, mostly in the form of emails from the scammer, do seem to support 
this later version of events. I cant be sure why the detail changes here so significantly, but 
overall, Im satisfied the outcome wouldnt be different either way. 
I do though have some further concerns over how much of the true story Mrs M has put 
forward. The evidence appears to show that Mrs M received the loan application email on 
30 November 2022. And the further emails supplied appear to show that she was being 
pressed for  and sending  more money to the scammers. It seems more likely than not 
these funds were sent from a different account, and that the money sent (or at least some of 
it) pre-dates the transactions on her RBS account. I dont think weve had a clear explanation 
of all thats happened. But, as Ive already said, Im not persuaded the outcome would be 
different even if total clarity was provided. Ill explain why.   
The Payment Service Regulations (2017) are of significance to Mrs Ms complaint. Broadly 
speaking, they set out that a customer is responsible for all payments out of their account 
that they have authorised. That applies to any card payments or faster payments. And the 
position on authorisation doesnt change when someone has been tricked into sending 
money. 
Im satisfied Mrs M did authorise all the payments out of her account. At different times 
Mrs M has said that the scammers were the ones making the payments. But theres no 
evidence or explanation for how that might have been possible. There are also call 
recordings where Mrs M clearly states that it was her that made all the payments at the 
scammers instruction. And so, on balance, Im satisfied it was her. 
There are then further considerations that also apply. They differ from card payments to 
faster payments (bank transfers). And so Ill deal with them separately.
The faster payments (bank transfers) 
RBS is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code. Broadly speaking, the Code is in place to see victims of scams reimbursed. 
But there are exceptions to reimbursement that a firm can rely on to decline a refund, even 
when its clear the customer has been scammed. RBS has said, and I agree, that one of those exceptions to reimbursement applies in 
Mrs Ms case. The two relevant exceptions can be summarised in the form of questions:
did Mrs M ignore effective warnings given by RBS?
did Mrs M have a reasonable basis for believing she was engaging with legitimate 
parties for legitimate purposes?
Im not persuaded RBS had to deliver Mrs M an effective warning when she was making the 
payments. I dont think the spending stood out as so unusual or suspicious that it ought to 
have presented as a scam risk to RBS. I say as much as the payment values are, 
individually, quite low. Thats not to say the overall loss isnt significant to Mrs M, but I do find 
its fair to say none of the payments stood at as a scam risk. 
It might be argued that the number and frequency of the payments ought to have given RBS 
cause for concern. Im not really persuaded that is the case. But I have thought about what 
might have happened if I were to find RBS ought to have been on notice. There is evidence 
available that helps to inform the answer to that question.
RBS did call Mrs M on 8 December when she was trying to make a payment of £141 toward 
the scam. RBS asked the purpose of the payment and Mrs M gave a calm, clear, and 
reasonable response when saying she was buying trainers (and other items) from a friend. 
That she agreed for the payment to be cancelled and told the bank she would visit her friend, 
who lived down the road, instead meant any concerns RBS might have had were put to rest. 
I find that was a reasonable reaction on RBS part in the circumstances.
Theres then nothing to suggest Mrs M would have said anything different, or to have acted 
differently, if she was asked the same questions at any other point. 
This means that I dont believe RBS needed to give a warning to Mrs M and that, even if it 
had, it wouldnt have made any difference to the scam.
Turning to the question of reasonable basis for belief, I dont find it can be fairly said Mrs M 
had one. As Ive said earlier, its been somewhat difficult to answer this question fully given 
the apparent gaps in Mrs Ms version of events. But Ive decided to issue this decision based 
on the evidence available. 
I dont believe its necessary to go into significant detail of the various reasons why there is a 
lack of believability here. Im satisfied its enough to list some of the key points:
The original email came from an unknown source, was unprompted by Mrs M, and 
was automatically delivered to her junk folder. These points, in my view, immediately 
suggest its a suspicious email not to be trusted;
The further emails from the scammers also appear highly suspect. The written 
content is very poor and doesnt appear at all official, as someone would reasonably 
expect of a loan company;
The emails are also clearly very pushy, demanding money again and again in very 
quick succession. There are often multiple emails a day;
The purpose for each supposed fee (direct debit fee, insurance fee, etc.) arent 
particularly believable. Even less so when they mount on top of each other again and 
again;
Mrs M was told all fees would be refunded when the loan proceeds were paid to her. 
This ought then fairly and reasonably lead to the question as to why they were 
payable at all;
The methods of payment were highly unusual and suspicious. That loan fees would 
be paid by way of mobile top-ups, gift vouchers, and payments to personal accounts 
does not sound legitimate;The name of the loan firm appears to change at least four times, but this was never 
questioned;
Mrs M appears to have been told by the scammer to trust him/her that there would 
only be one more fee due before the proceeds were released several times. This 
happened at least as early as 3 December 2021. But Mrs M continued to make 
payments for another five days, despite the same promise being made repeatedly.
Im satisfied that there were enough clear warning signs here that Mrs M ought to have 
questioned what and who she was getting involved with. And I cant say she held a 
reasonable basis for believing she was dealing with legitimate parties for legitimate 
purposes. 
Mrs M has told us that she was vulnerable at the time she fell victim to the scam. In 
particular, shes said how shed been diagnosed with post-natal depression following the 
recent birth of her child. Shes also said how she really needed the money.
I dont doubt that Mrs M was going through a very difficult time. And I can accept that she 
might not have been thinking as clearly as she otherwise might. But I dont believe it would 
be fair and reasonable to say that she couldnt have been expected to protect herself from 
this scam. There were too many clear warning signs here and Ive not seen evidence to 
suggest Mrs Ms mental state was so poor that she couldnt have picked up on any of these. 
It also seems Mrs M did have people around her she could have turned to for help. Ive 
noted shes mentioned a partner. And I can see she has payments into her account from 
other family members. So it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to say she couldnt have 
protected herself.
Ive considered what the bank did to try and recover Mrs Ms money. I can see that it 
contacted the receiving banks quickly. But there was nothing that could be returned and so 
nothing further RBS could do. 
The card payments
There is less to say about whether the card payments ought to be refunded. Ive already 
explained the position on the authorising of transactions, and so Mrs M is responsible for 
them.
There are some circumstances in which a chargeback might be raised as a customer 
dispute. But here, Mrs M knowingly paid for gift cards and mobile top-ups. And she got what 
she paid for, albeit with the benefit going to the scammers. 
That means a chargeback would have had no reasonable prospect of success, so I find it 
was fair and reasonable for RBS not to have pursued one. 
Conclusion
Having considered all of the available evidence and arguments I cant say that RBS has 
acted unfairly in declining to reimburse Mrs M. I know it will feel unfair to Mrs M as she has 
lost out and is the victim of a scam. But I cant say that its RBS that should be responsible 
for reimbursing that loss.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman