DRN-3221574
The complaint
Mr T complains on behalf of his construction company that I will refer to as T, that  Aviva 
Insurance Limited have unfairly declined its claim on its construction policy.
What happened
T had an insurance policy with Aviva to cover its construction works. In 2020 it began work 
on a new building. However in the early stages of the build two sink holes appeared in the 
ground on the site. T paid to have the holes filled and made a claim on the insurance.
Aviva declined the claim as it said the holes were in ground where works had not yet begun, 
so wasnt covered by the policy. Mr T complained but Aviva didnt uphold his complaint. 
However it agreed to pay for the report Mr T had instructed to inspect the holes, less the 
policy excess.
Mr T didnt think this was fair. He said that the ground the holes appeared in had been 
prepared for the ground floor of the building to be built, and this preparation work would now 
need to be re-done. He said because of this, works had begun on that area and it should be 
covered by the policy. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
said as the ground had been prepared for work to begin, this was an important part of the 
required works and would require remedial work in order for the construction to be 
completed. So she thought Aviva should reimburse the costs T had incurred to infill the 
holes, in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr T, on behalf of T, accepted our investigators view, however Aviva didnt. It said the policy 
didnt intend to cover land where work had not yet begun. And as the ground floor had not 
been laid, this wouldnt meet the policys definition of works and wouldnt be covered. It 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ts policy provides cover for damage to the property insured, which is defined in the policy 
as:
Works, Your Plant and Hired in Plant which you own or are responsible for as stated in The 
Schedule
The policy definition of works is as follows:
Temporary or permanent works completed or to be completed as part of any Contract
The point in dispute here, is whether the sink holes appeared in what the policy defines as 
works. And therefore whether there has been damage to the property as defined in the 
policy.
Aviva has said that construction had only started on the foundations and strip footings, and 
these were unaffected by the sink holes, so this wasnt damage to the works. 
While the ground the holes appeared in hadnt yet had a structure built on it, it had been 
levelled and prepared. Mr T has explained that this work is essential in order for the 
construction of the ground floor to start. For this reason I dont think the preparation work 
and the building of the structure can reasonably be separated, as one requires the other. So 
based on this I think its reasonable to say that the area of ground did make up part of the 
contracted works, as work had begun to prepare the ground and this would need to be 
rectified due to the damage. I therefore think the sink holes meet the definition of damage to 
the property as described in the policy. 
For this reason I agree with our investigator that Aviva hasnt acted fairly by declining Ts 
claim on this basis, so require it to reimburse T for the costs incurred to correct the damage 
caused by the sink holes, inline with the policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ts complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to 
reimburse T for the costs incurred to correct the sink holes, in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T, on behalf of 
T, to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman