DRN-3892729
The complaint
Miss S says Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly lent to her. She has 
requested that interest and late payment charges she paid on her shopping account be 
refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a Studio Retail shopping account Studio Retail provided to Miss S. 
The account was opened in July 2017 when Miss S was given an initial credit limit of £80. 
This limit was increased five times until it eventually reached £1,500 in October 2020. 
Studio Retail also made four credit limit reductions.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ss complaint and thought that Studio Retail ought to 
have realised Miss S simply wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit by 
the time it offered increased Miss Ss credit limit in August 2020. 
Studio Retail said it carried out appropriate checks and that the credit limit increases (and 
decreases) were granted based on affordability scoring and checking with credit reference 
agencies. 
As Studio Retail disagrees with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss S could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These 
checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and Miss Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Studio Retail should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss S. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that 
prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought Studio Retail shouldnt have provided 
Miss S with any further credit from August 2020 onwards  the point at which her credit limit 
was increased for the fourth time, to £550. Our adjudicator did this having received copies of 
Miss Ss bank statements. 
Nonetheless in preparing this decision Ive looked at the overall pattern of Studio Retails 
lending history with Miss S to see if there was a point at which Studio Retail should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, 
that would mean Studio Retail should have realised that it shouldnt have continued to 
increase Miss Ss credit limits.
When Miss S opened her account in July 2017, giving her an opening credit limit of £80, 
Studio Retail says there were no signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. 
Having reviewed the checks, and taking into account the modest opening credit limit of 
£80 Miss S was given, I dont think theres enough evidence or information to suggest 
that at this point Studio Retail ought to have carried out better checks before approving 
opening an account for her. 
Going forwards, though, having noted the credit limit increases that followed I agree with 
our adjudicator that by March 2019, when Miss S was using around two thirds of the 
available balance of £300 and her limit was then increased to £425, Studio Retail ought to 
have been taking steps to verify Miss Ss income as well as her daily outgoings and level of 
committed expenditure. By doing so, it would have better understood her financial situation 
and whether her level of borrowing was at risk of becoming unsustainable. 
Ive next seen that by August 2020, around seventeen months later, after Miss S had had 
her credit limit reduced to £410, Studio Retail approved a credit limit increase up to £550. 
Ive seen that Miss S had made four late payments and incurred overlimit charges since the 
March 2019 credit limit increase. She was also continuing to make only minimum monthly 
payments. I think by now, given the account history, it would have been proportionate for 
Studio Retail to find out more about Miss Ss income as well as her daily living costs and 
committed expenditure. 
I cant be sure exactly what it would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of 
anything else, I think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information 
contained in the bank statements Miss S has sent us to get an idea of what would most 
likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed six months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Miss Ss net monthly income from her part-time paid employment and state 
benefits averaged out at around £1,700 per month. Miss Ss monthly spending over the 
period averaged out at around £2,500 and it looks as if she was supplementing her income with money provided by family members. She was also making regular use of her overdraft 
facility. I think all this demonstrates that Miss S didnt have enough disposable income to 
sustainably afford the additional borrowing Studio Retail granted her in August 2020. 
It follows that I think better proportionate checks will have likely shown Studio Retail that by 
August 2020 Miss S was showing signs of having difficulty in managing her account 
alongside her day-to-day living expenses and other debt commitments. 
To summarise, I consider that Studio Retails actions in further increasing Miss Ss credit 
limit on this account, in August 2020 and later, unfairly prolonged her indebtedness. Miss S 
was able to continue using a greater level of credit she couldnt afford over an extended 
period of time, with the result that her indebtedness continued to increase. So I think 
Studio Retail should put things right.
Putting things right  what Studio Retail needs to do
Rework Miss Ss account to ensure that from 26 August 2020 onwards interest 
is only charged on balances up to £425, including any buy now pay later interest 
(being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no further credit 
limit increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should 
also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made Studio Retail should contact Miss S to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan. Once Miss S has repaid the outstanding balance, it should remove 
any adverse information recorded on her credit file from 26 August 2020 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Miss S, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. Studio Retail 
should also remove any adverse information from Miss Ss credit file from 26 August 
2020 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to take off tax from this interest. 
Studio Retail must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Miss Ss complaint. Studio Retail Limited 
should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman