DRN-4231060
The complaint
Mrs D, Miss M, Mr W and Mr W have complained about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited. They arent happy about the way it dealt with the renewal of their multi-car and 
house insurance policy. 
As Mr W has mainly advanced this complaint I will refer to him throughout for ease. 
What happened
Mr W looked to discuss the renewal of the multi-car and house insurance policy with Admiral 
just before renewal. The policy covered three cars and the house and Mr W was told that the 
policy would renew at the reduced price he had negotiated. 
Unfortunately, it later transpired that the policy hadnt renewed which meant that Mr W and 
the other policy holder were left uninsured for a short while. And when Admiral looked into 
this for Mr W it said it couldnt now provide cover at the level negotiated or even at the 
amount it offered pre-negotiation. So Mr W and the other policy holders had to take out 
cover elsewhere at short notice and at an increased price. Admiral acknowledged that it got 
things wrong here and offered £65 by way of compensation. As Mr W and the other policy 
holders remained unhappy they complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr W and the other policy holders and he upheld their 
complaint. Admiral accepted it got things wrong but he didnt think that its offer of £65 
compensation went far enough. He thought the compensation level should be increased to 
£150 and that Admiral should cover any increase in policy costs each party incurred 
because of the failing. 
Mr W thought they should get more by way of compensation and Admiral only responded 
initially to say it was investigating things, but it then didnt respond so the matter has been 
passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Although Admiral appears to accept it got things wrong here and offered £65 in 
compensation it hasnt really explained what went wrong; why it said it would provide cover 
and renew the policy and why this didnt happen. And it hasnt explained why it wouldnt offer 
cover once the error (of the policy not renewing at the price Mr W agreed) was noticed. 
Without this information and explanation, it makes this case difficult to decide. 
However, it is clear from the communication leading up to renewal that renewal was agreed 
and should have been in place, indeed Mr W negotiated a slightly reduced price. It must 
have been worrying and stressful for Mr W and the other policy holders to have realised their 
policy hadnt auto renewed and they were driving uninsured - fortunately nothing happened 
and I would have asked Admiral to cover any claim if it had. And it must have been annoying 
and difficult to have had to quickly looked to reinsure elsewhere at short notice at a higher 
price. I know Mr W feels the compensation should be a lot more, but I agree that £150 
compensation seems fair for the stress and inconvenience caused over a relatively short 
period of time. 
As the renewal and payment plan had been agreed and should have renewed a few hours 
later I think its only fair that Admiral honours the price it agreed. It hasnt explained in any 
meaningful way why the policy didnt renew or why it wouldnt continue with cover at the 
agreed price. And given this I agree that Admiral should pay any additional premiums Mr W 
and the other policy holders incurred subject to them providing their schedules and proof of 
payment so the increase in premium is confirmed and the level of cover is shown to be 
comparable. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im upholding this complaint. I require Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to refund the difference the policy holders have paid for their 
insurance (subject to reasonable proof of payment and comparable level of cover) plus £150 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D, Miss M, Mr 
W and Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman