DRN-2313841
The complaint
Mrs L complains that a car she acquired on hire purchase from Black Horse Limited wasnt 
of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In March 2017 Mrs L took a car on a 49-month hire purchase agreement from Black Horse. 
The hire agreement recorded that the car had been first registered in September 2014 and 
had a recorded mileage of 38,000. The cash price was £56,700 and Mrs L paid a deposit of 
£22,250. 
Mrs L says that she experienced problems with the cars battery early in the agreement. 
These were, however, resolved and form no part of the current complaint. 
In December 2019 Mrs L says the car broke down. She took it to the dealership, which 
concluded that the cars turbo-charger needed replacing  at a cost of around £6,000. The 
mileage by this stage was 51,000. 
Mrs L sought further advice from an engineer specialising in her make of car. She says she 
was told that there was a known issue with the turbo-chargers on similar models, which 
required some modification. The manufacturer had issued a bulletin describing the fault and 
the adjustments needed. 
Mrs L thought this  and the problems shed experienced more generally  meant that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality. She referred the matter to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered what she and Black Horse had said.
Initially, the investigator agreed with Mrs L and recommended that it pay for the costs of 
repairs to the car, along with the costs of diagnosis, that it refund two monthly payments 
under the hire purchase agreement and that it pay some additional compensation. He noted 
that the manufacturers recall didnt cover Mrs Ls car, although it had covered earlier models 
with the same engine. He reasoned, however, that the modifications referred to in the 
manufacturers bulletin would have prevented what he considered to have been the 
premature failure of the turbo-charger. 
Black Horse didnt agree with that recommendation and submitted further evidence, as it 
was entitled to do. It explained that the modification to the turbo-charger in earlier cars was 
intended to prevent a build-up of oil in the turbo-charger  which in turn would cause a build-
up of smoke and possible damage to the exhaust system. That wasnt the problem in this 
case, which was unrelated to the modification described in the manufacturers bulletin. In 
any event, Mrs Ls car hadnt been covered by the bulletin.   
The investigator reviewed his conclusions in the light of these further submissions. He 
concluded that the failure of the turbo-charger could not, after all, be attributed to the fact 
that the modifications hadnt been carried out. He was satisfied that, even if they had been, it 
would have made no difference to Mrs Ls experience. He noted that, by the time of the 
break-down in December 2019, the cars mileage had increased to 51,000. He wasnt 
persuaded that the problem was evidence that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
time of delivery. 
Mrs L didnt accept the investigators revised opinion and asked that an ombudsman review 
the case. The car has now been repaired and sold. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the hire purchase agreement was to be read as 
including a term that the car would be of satisfactory quality. That expression means of the 
quality a reasonable person would expect in all the circumstances. Those circumstances 
include, for example, the cars age, mileage and price.
By the time Mrs L experienced problems with the cars turbo-charger, it had a recorded 
mileage of 51,000 and was more than four years old. Whilst thats not a particularly high 
mileage or age  and many cars will remain relatively trouble-free for significantly longer  I 
dont believe I can fairly say that even a serious problem of the type Mrs L experienced is 
evidence that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was delivered to her.   
The notion of satisfactory quality also includes durability. I dont believe however that this 
means a car must remain fault-free during the period of a hire purchase agreement. Mrs L 
had had the car for 33 months by the time of the turbo-charger failure. Theres no persuasive 
evidence that the problem was either existing or developing at the time Mrs L took delivery of 
the car. Whilst shes mentioned other earlier problems with the car, they dont appear to 
have been connected to the turbo-charger. 
Mrs L has also referred to the price of the car. As Ive indicated, thats a factor to be taken 
into account when considering whether goods are of satisfactory quality. Mrs Ls car was at 
the luxury end of the market and priced accordingly  even when used. Its cash price was 
however still very much less than the new price at the time. 
For these reasons, Im not persuaded that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the time 
of delivery to Mrs L.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Black Horse Limited to do anything more to resolve 
Mrs Ls complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mrs L to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman