DRN-1629668
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy with the settlement received from Assurant General Insurance Limited, 
following a claim for a damaged laptop.
What happened
Miss As laptop was damaged, and she made a claim on her Assurant insurance policy. The 
laptop couldnt be repaired so Miss A was offered a cash settlement of £364.99. Miss A 
wasnt happy with this as her laptop had retailed at £749 when she bought it in 2016.
Miss A was also unhappy with previously being told her laptop had been repaired, and may 
have already been sent back to her. Only to later be told it had failed quality checking.
Assurant felt the cash settlement was enough to replace the laptop with an equivalent, and it 
said no incorrect information was given.
An investigator here looked into the matter and agreed the cash settlement was sufficient to 
replace Miss As laptop with an equivalent one. But they said incorrect information was given 
so recommended compensation of £50.
Assurant didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman decision, so the case has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss As policy doesnt really say how a claim will be settled if her laptop cant be repaired or 
replaced by Assurant. It says:
In the event we are unable to provide a replacement we will contact you to discuss an 
alternative claim settlement.
I think thats disconcertingly vague, although I believe the cash settlement offered is 
reasonable. Assurant have provided evidence to show equivalent laptops for sale for around 
the £364.99 paid to Miss A, so it seems she could put herself back in the position she was in 
before the loss  something insurance is generally intended to do.
I note what Miss A has said about being misled. Ive listened to calls she had with Assurant 
during the claim. She was told on one call that her laptop had been repaired and should be 
sent out to her today or tomorrow and may have even been sent already. On another call the 
following day Miss A was told it was in quality checking and may be sent to her today.
I understand why quality checking may be required but Miss A was given no indication that it 
could fail  and was told her laptop may already be on its way back to her, which wasnt 
right. So, I cant agree no misinformation was given to her. And I dont expect Miss A to be 
familiar with Assurants processes, so I agree that it shouldve been clearer with her that she 
might not get her laptop back. 
This clearly caused Miss A unnecessary frustration when she was later told her laptop 
wasnt successfully repaired. I think its reasonable that shes compensated for this.
Putting things right
Assurant should pay Miss A £100 compensation for trouble and upset caused by its 
misinformation.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Assurant General Insurance 
Limited to put this matter right by paying Miss A the sum set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman