DRN-4396845
The complaint
Mr C complains about Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) who partially-declined his claim, 
under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Following a storm, Mr C contacted Ageas to make a claim regarding damage to his roof. It 
sent a surveyor to assess the damage. The surveyor wrote a report and concluded that the 
damage (which was failed render to the chimney stack) wasnt storm related but was due to 
wear and tear. 
There were delays in receiving the report, but once received, Ageas considered it. Ageas  
declined Mr Cs claim as it said wear and tear wasnt covered under the policy. 
Mr C complained to Ageas as he said that the surveyor had failed to examine the other side 
of the chimney, where the render had fallen. He also said that in the previous two years he 
had sealed, repaired, and repainted that area. And that the surveyor had told him, that it was 
wind damage and wouldnt be a problem. Mr C wanted Ageas to accept his claim.  He also 
complained about the poor communication that he experienced during the claims process, 
which also meant that he had to chase Ageas for updates. 
In its final response, Ageas maintained its position regarding the claim. It said that as wear 
and tear wasnt an insured peril, the decision to decline was correct. It accepted that there 
was some poor service issues, during the claims process, for which it apologised. 
Mr C was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be partially upheld.  He said 
although there were storm conditions present at the time, the damage caused to Mr Cs 
property, was not deemed to be storm related by the surveyor, who would be considered to 
be an expert. Consequently, he said that Ageas was fair to decline the claim under the policy 
terms and conditions. He did, however, agree that there had been poor service issues. And 
he recommended that Ageas pay Mr C £100 compensation, for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Ageas accepted the view, Mr C did not. He said that evidence supported that the storm was 
the main cause of the damage. He said that wear and tear and deterioration wasnt 
consistent, as damage hadnt been caused to the property during other earlier storms. He 
said that he had recently repaired and maintained the area, preceding the storm, which also 
supported this. He questioned the reliability of the surveyors evidence. And he asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will partially uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr C, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr C has provided a number of detailed comments, all of which I have read and considered. 
However, as an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a decision 
on complaints with the minimum of formality. With this in mind, it isnt necessary for me to 
address each, and every point raised, but to focus on the crux of the complaint. 
The main issue of this complaint is whether Ageas fairly declined the claim, under the policy 
exclusion of wear and tear.  
Our approach when assessing complaints where storms are said to be the cause of the 
damage, is that we take into consideration three questions, when determining whether an 
event can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer can reasonably decline 
a claim. 
Both parties agree that there were storm conditions around the time of the event. So, the first 
answer to the first question is yes. 
This leads to question two, is the damage claimed, consistent with damage a storm typically 
causes. Mr C said that if the damage found wasnt typical of a storm, this was because the 
storm that occurred wasnt typical. Indeed, it had been classed he said as the most 
destructive storm for 10 years. 
Ageas, who had relied upon its expert evidence, said that the damage, was render that had 
fallen from the chimney stack, and caused damage to some roof tiles. The surveyor 
concluded that the blown render would only be caused by age related wear and tear.
In addition, Ageas surveyor explained that claims (like this) can only be validated because 
of a one-off incident (which is how our service and insurers consider storm claims). Also, the 
surveyor highlighted that as the render had become detached, this could only have been 
caused by wear and tear, as opposed to a one-off storm. The storm merely highlighted the 
damage and wasnt the root cause of the issue. 
Having carefully considered Mr Cs comments and the evidence from Ageas expert, Im 
more persuaded by the surveyors conclusions that the root cause of the damage wasnt 
storm related. It should also be noted that it is unusual for render to fail or come away, solely 
due to a one-off storm event. Consequently, I agree that that the damage wasnt only due to 
a storm. So, the answer to question two is no. 
As the answer to question two is no, Im satisfied that Ageas fairly declined the claim under 
the policy exclusion of wear and tear. 
Finally, there had been service failings that Ageas recognized. It apologized for those 
failings. But I do think that Mr C was inconvenienced and there was evidence of poor communication, and that Mr C had to chase Ageas for updates. So, Im satisfied that Ageas 
ought to pay Mr C £100 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused, as this is a fair 
amount in the circumstances.
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr C will be, there was 
evidence of wear and tear and as this was a policy exclusion, Im satisfied that Ageas fairly 
declined the claim under the policy terms and conditions. I also think that £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused is fair, for the service failings. Accordingly, I 
cant reasonably ask Ageas to do anything further here.
Putting things right
To matters right, I direct Ageas as outlined below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. 
Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr C £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the above amount within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr C accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman