DRN-2517949
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Progressive Money Limited (Progressive Money) irresponsibly 
provided him with an unaffordable loan. 
  
Background
Progressive Money provided Mr S with a loan of £3,950.00 in September 2016. This loan 
had an APR of 48.82% and a 36-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of 
£6,819.36 (which included acceptance and administration fees of £690) was due to be 
repaid in 36 instalments of around £190.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Progressive Money unfairly 
provided this loan as its checks ought to have alerted it to the fact that the lending was 
unsustainable for Mr S. Progressive Money disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Ss complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ss complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Progressive Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr S would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Progressive Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Progressive Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr S would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
Progressive Money provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Progressive Money to
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Ss ability to make the
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Progressive Money had to think about 
whether repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr S. In 
practice this meant that Progressive Money had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Progressive Money to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Progressive Moneys checks reasonable and proportionate?
Progressive Money says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with     
Mr S prior to providing him with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Mr S declared 
that he was earning around £2,280.00 a month and had expenditure of around £1800 a 
month. Progressive Money also obtained a payslip from Mr S which confirmed his salary. I 
can see that it also requested a bank statement to evidence Mr S expenditure. All of this left 
him with around £480 a month which was more than enough to cover the payments to this 
loan. 
Bearing in mind Progressive Money obtained a significant amount of information on Mr S 
circumstances, Im satisfied that it did carry out a proportionate check  at least in terms of 
the information requested  before providing this loan to Mr S.Did Progressive Money make a fair lending decision?
It isnt enough for a lender to simply request information from a consumer before deciding to 
lend to them. So even if a lender may have requested a proportionate amount of information, 
it may still be the case that it will not have acted fairly and reasonably towards that consumer 
if it didnt carry out a fair and reasonable evaluation of the information it obtained. 
I say this because a lender is required to carry out an assessment of the borrowers ability to 
repay any credit advanced. And any assessment requires an evaluation, judgement, 
appraisal and scrutiny of any information obtained. Progressive Money says its assessment 
of the information obtained led it to conclude that Mr S loan was affordable for him as hed 
be able to sustainably make his repayments. 
Ive carefully considered what Progressive Money has said. But the credit check it carried 
out showed that Mr S had significant amounts of short-term lending, from multiple lenders in 
the lead up to this application. Progressive Money might have insisted on the payday loans 
being cleared. And Ive also given careful thought to the fact that the funds from this loan 
were provided to the respective lenders rather than to Mr S. 
But the sheer number of payday loans Mr S had taken together with the significant balances 
which remained on Mr S revolving credit commitments and his overdraft lead me to think 
that this loan simply wasnt sustainable for him. As far as I can see all of this meant that Mr S 
was likely to only be able to make his payments by borrowing further. I cant see that 
Progressive Money took this into account so I dont think that it made a fair lending decision 
when it agreed to provide this loan to Mr S.
Did Progressive Money act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that Progressive Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S in some 
other way. So I dont think Progressive Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr S 
in some other way.
Did Mr S lose out as a result of Progressive Money unfairly providing him with this loan?
As Mr S paid a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been 
provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Progressive Money did 
wrong.
So I think that Progressive Money needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Progressive Money needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, Progressive Money should put things right for Mr S by:
refunding the interest, fees and charges (including acceptance and administration 
fees) Mr S paid as a result on this loan;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest and charges from the date they 
were paid by Mr S to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr S credit file as a result of this 
loan. HM Revenue & Customs requires Progressive Money to take off tax from this interest. 
Progressive Money must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.  
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr S complaint. Progressive Money Limited 
needs to put things right in the way set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman