DRN-3456300
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with his car insurer broker I Go 4 Ltd (IG4). He thinks its customer service 
is poor and the data box fitted to his car is faulty, which has unfairly increased his premium.
What happened
Mr M took out a policy via IG4 in September 2020. Its premium is based, in part, on how well 
Mr M drives and a box is fitted to the car by IG4 to gather data used to generate a driving 
behaviour score. In March 2021 Mr Ms premium increased he was told this was because 
the score generated from the data gathered by the box had reduced. IG4 said that was in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy and the data gathered was correct. Mr M said 
he was unhappy  he was a good driver and another error by IG4 had meant hed had to pay 
for cover upfront rather than by direct debit as hed planned. He felt like IG4 ignored his 
concerns. And whilst IG4 did respond to him on the direct debit issue he remained unhappy 
and complained to us.
Our investigator felt there was no evidence of anything being wrong. So she didnt uphold 
the complaint. But she asked both parties for further details. If, for example, Mr M could 
explain what he was doing and when, so she could check the driving data IG4 had sent us. 
She also sent the driving data to Mr M but he couldnt access it. She asked IG4 if it had 
tested the box and how a score of zero for accelerating or braking (which is a bad score and 
will have a big impact on the overall score) could be achieved. 
Mr M said he could only say he hadnt driven much as the family mainly used his partners 
car. And the box recorded the exact same data no matter who drove his car, so it couldnt be 
correct. IG4 sent a diagnostic record for the box which showed no anomaly in the period in 
question. It didnt explain what would cause a score of zero. Mr Ms complaint was passed to 
me for a decision to be made. 
I reviewed the additional evidence but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision. To which neither party replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were:
direct debit
I understand that a direct debit was missed, and a late fee was charged. From a letter IG4 
sent to Mr M it seems that he called it to make payments and was transferred through to the 
finance company that provides the arrangement whereby monthly payments can be made. 
From there it isnt clear to me what happened but the finance company seem to have 
cancelled his agreement and he had to pay the whole premium in one go. I understand this 
was frustrating for Mr M  but the finance provider is not an agent of IG4s and I cant see 
that IG4 did anything wrong.
data box
I understand that Mr M believes the box must be recording or generating incorrect data. 
I know he believes he is a good driver, meaning his low driving behaviour score must be 
wrong. But IG4 says there is no error with the box and a diagnostic report has been provided 
to support that. And Mr M hasnt been able to give me any tangible, verifiable details that 
make me think the box must be faulty in spite of the diagnostic. I appreciate that doing that 
would be difficult  in the normal course of events a driver wouldnt keep a record of where 
theyve gone and when. But this is Mr Ms complaint and he has to satisfy me, at least on the 
face of it, that the box provided and administrated by IG4, which then generates the premium 
charged by the insurer, is wrong. He hasnt been able to do that.
Id add that a low score doesnt necessarily mean Mr M is a bad driver. As IG4 has 
explained, the accelerating and braking markers have a big impact on the score. So this 
means, for example, even if you are driving well, driving in heavy traffic, will likely have a big 
impact on those scores. And that would be the case no matter who is driving the car. The 
other scoring category that has a big impact on the overall score is driving at night.  
I can see from the data IG4 sent us that when Mr M initially took out the policy, he did not 
drive at night at all. At that time he had very high behaviour score. But at the end of 
January 2021 he did drive at night, and then several times at the end of February 2021 and 
in the beginning of March 2021. It was then in March that his score was reviewed and found 
to have decreased. But I note that he was advised he was about to be re-scored and was 
given a short period during which to try and increase it. And I can see that even during that 
short period, on two occasions, Mr M did drive at night. Im also aware that he had access to 
details online, which would have shown him his score on a daily basis if accessed. So Mr M 
would have been able to see that his score was decreasing. I know he feels frustrated 
because he believes it didnt matter how he drove, the box recorded what it wanted and that 
resulted in his low score. But as I said above, Ive not seen any compelling evidence that 
makes me think the box was faulty.
As neither party has objected to my provisional findings, Ive no need to change them. They 
are now the findings of this, my final decision. 
My final decision
With regret for the disappointment I know this will cause Mr M, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I dont make any award against I Go 4 Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman