DRN-4327666
The complaint
Ms B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC deleted her identity profile resulting in her not 
having access to her accounts through her mobile banking application. She was then 
required to visit a branch with her identification documents to resolve the issue. 
What happened
Ms B says that at end February 2023, she successfully applied for a Barclaycard and after a 
month it wasnt appearing in her Barclays mobile banking app. She called Barclays to 
resolve the issue and says that in the process of merging her two profiles Barclays deleted 
her identity profile. This resulted in her losing access to her accounts through her mobile 
app. She called Barclays and was told she would need to visit a branch with two pieces of 
identification. Ms B says her nearest branch was a long drive away and she had to rely on a 
neighbour to take her there. 
Ms B says this issue has caused her stress as her mobile app is how she manages her 
accounts and while Barclays said she could use online banking she didnt know her login 
details and didnt have a pin sentry device. She also says that although Barclays said it 
offered her the option of video banking this wasnt the case. Ms B says this issue meant she 
missed out on work, and she had to disclose her vulnerability which she hadnt wished to do. 
Barclays issued a final response letter dated 31 March 2023. It confirmed that the only way 
for Ms Bs identification records to be updated was for Ms B to visit a branch. It agreed that 
the merger of records appeared to cause the issue Ms B experienced with the mobile 
banking app. It said that Ms Bs identification status was updated on 30 March and so she 
should have access to her mobile banking app.
Barclays issued a further final response letter dated 4 April 2023. It upheld her complaint and 
apologised for the distress and inconvenience Ms B had been caused by its error. It noted 
Ms Bs comment about needing to have a neighbour drive her to the branch and the wait she 
then experienced. It acknowledged that it was its mistake that meant Ms Bs records needed 
to be updated and that Ms B had done everything she could to make this happen. Because 
of this it offered to increase the compensation of £25 it paid in March 2023 to £125. It noted 
Ms B had rejected this offer and asked for the £25 paid in March to be reversed. It 
apologised that it wasnt able to reverse the payment of £25 but said this wouldnt affect her 
rights to refer her complaint to this service. 
Following this Barclays sent further letters confirming its previous findings. It suggested that 
Ms B was given the option of using video banking rather than visiting a branch but then in its 
following letter said this option wasnt given with any certainty and even if she had tried this 
she would still have needed to visit a branch with her identification. Based on this it 
increased its total compensation offer to £150 (including the £25 already paid). 
Ms B didnt accept Barclays offer and referred her complaint to this service. She said that 
she wanted a full review to ensure that others didnt experience this issue. She also wanted 
a higher amount of compensation than Barclays had offered. She said that the issue was 
only resolved because of her actions and not by Barclays.
Our investigator upheld this complaint but thought the £150 compensation offered by 
Barclays was reasonable. 
Ms B didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that reasonable adjustments werent 
made to accommodate her vulnerability and that had her neighbour not taken her to the 
branch she would have faced financial discrimination as she wouldnt have been able to 
access her financial products. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms B is upset given the service she has received from Barclays. It 
appears that in an attempt to merge her Barclaycard and Barclays profiles Ms B lost access 
to her accounts through her mobile banking app. Barclays has accepted this was its error.
Our role isnt to punish the bank but when a mistake is made, we would expect the bank to 
put the customer back in the position they would have been had the mistake not been made 
and, where appropriate, to pay compensation. Ms Bs mobile banking app was restored on 
30 March putting her back in the position she was before this incident occurred. But this only 
happened because she took time out of work to visit a branch and provide copies of her 
identification documents. Therefore, I agree that Ms B should be compensated for the 
trouble and upset this issue has caused her.
Barclays has explained that the only way that the mobile banking app access could be 
reinstated was for Ms B to provide copies of her identification documents in branch. It did at 
one point suggest it had provided the option of video banking, but it then accepted this was 
only suggested as worth a try and it confirmed that it wouldnt have been able to update her 
identification status through a video banking appointment and she would still have needed to 
visit a branch. Ms B has said her vulnerability wasnt taken into account and reasonable 
adjustments not made. 
The only reason why Ms B needed to visit a branch was because of the error made by 
Barclays. Ms B explained to Barclays that she had a medical condition that meant making 
the journey to the branch was difficult (and noted the distance to the nearest branch). 
However, as the only option was for the documents to be provided in branch, I cannot say 
that Barclays was wrong to state this. But I have taken into account in my consideration of 
compensation that visiting a branch was particularly difficult for Ms B due to her vulnerability 
(and I have also considered the upset she experienced by needing to explain her 
vulnerability when she hadnt wished to).
Ms B has explained that she had to rely on a neighbour to drive her to a branch and her 
travel costs were £30. She also had to take time out of work. I also note that while online 
banking was still available to Ms B she didnt use this channel, and that given when the issue 
arose (towards the end of the month) she was particularly concerned to be able to monitor 
the movements through her accounts, and not being able to do so caused her unnecessary 
stress. 
But I have also considered that Ms Bs mobile banking was restored after four days, and that 
Barclays responded to the issues Ms B raised in a timely way. It initially offered Ms B a low 
amount of compensation but then reassessed this after considering the specific challenges 
Ms B experienced and the upset these had caused her. Because of this it increased its 
compensation offer. It also provided a further amount of compensation in response to the 
misinformation about video banking. Given this, I find that Barclays did try to resolve the issues Ms B experienced and provide her compensation for the upset and inconvenience 
she had been caused as a vulnerable customer.
Taking everything into account, I find that the offer made by Barclays to pay Ms B £150 
compensation is reasonable.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay Ms B a total of £150 compensation as it has offered (£25 has already 
been paid).
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should take the action set out above in 
resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman