DRN-2022334
 
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Avantia Insurance Limiteds decision to charge him cancellation
fees when he cancelled his home insurance policy. He said Avantia didnt tell him it would
automatically renew his home insurance policy.
All references to the broker Avantia in my decision include the insurer it acted on behalf of.
What happened
Mr B bought a home insurance policy online through Avantia on 18 August 2018. On 23 July
2019 Avantia wrote to Mr B to tell him it would automatically renew his policy on 18 August
2019. It said it would collect the yearly premium of £345.77 a week before if it didnt hear
from him.
On 2 September 2019 Mr B called Avantia to cancel his policy. He wanted a full refund.
Avantia said it wouldnt provide a full refund because Mr B was outside of the cooling off
period when he called. So it refunded to Mr B £232.80. This meant Avantia kept £112.92.
This was for its arrangement fee (£50), cancellation fee (£50) and for the days Mr B was
insured (£12.97).
Mr B complained to Avantia. He said he was away for most of the summer holidays so he
didnt see the renewal letter it sent until September 2019. In any event, he felt Avantia hadnt
given enough notice of renewal. He said hed checked his policy document before going on
holiday and as it didnt mention renewal, hed arranged alternative cover elsewhere.
Our investigator asked Mr B to provide proof of insurance hed bought elsewhere. But Mr B
didnt provide any. So the investigator thought that overall Avantia had acted reasonably.
Mr B then provided proof of buying a policy elsewhere which started on 12 August 2019. The
investigator changed her mind and recommended Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She
thought Avantia should provide Mr B with a full refund. Although it had sent a renewal
reminder  and Mr B had agreed to auto renewal before buying the policy, she noticed there
was no reference to Avantia renewing Mr Bs policy in the documents he received in August
2018.
Avantia didnt agree. It said it had given Mr B good notice of its intention to renew his policy.
It said it would agree to refund the premium Mr B paid while on cover. The investigator
asked Avantia to confirm how much this would be. Avantia said it was £50.
Mr B didnt accept Avantias offer. He wants a full refund.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 June 2020. I thought Avantias offer of £50 was fair and 
reasonable to put things right.
Mr B is disappointed I havent recommended a full refund. Avantia accepted my provisional 
decision. 
 
So the case has been passed back to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new information, my final decision remains along the same lines 
as my provisional decision. 
We dont think theres anything wrong with an insurer or broker offering to auto renew
insurance policies. This can be convenient for customers as they dont have to do anything
and it avoids the risk of not having insurance cover. But the insurer or its agent must have
made it clear to the consumer when the policy was sold that this would happen. And it must
also make it clear in good time before the renewal date. This is because its unlikely that a
consumer will remember what they agreed to a year ago.
Avantia has provided a screenshot of the terms and conditions Mr B agreed to when he
bought his policy in August 2018. It said he wouldnt have been able to buy the policy without
agreeing to their terms and conditions. Im satisfied that Mr B agreed for Avantia to arrange
for his policy to automatically renew.
The policy documents Mr B received when he bought his policy in August 2018 didnt tell him
his policy will automatically renew the following year. However, Avantia wrote to Mr B on 23
July 2019 to remind him of the renewal. It said:
If our cover still meets your needs and there are no changes that you need to tell us about,
theres no need to contact us, your policy is set to automatically renew on 18/08/2019 and
well collect the amount using your latest payment card a week before this date.
Mr B accepts that he received Avantias letter dated 23 July 2019. But he said he didnt see
it until he returned from holiday. This is when he contacted Avantia: on 2 September 2019.
I appreciate that Mr B says he was on holiday for most of the summer from 25 July 2019. But
I think Avantia did enough to make Mr B aware this his policy would automatically renew. It
was something he agreed to in August 2018  and I think Avantia sent its renewal notice in
good time on 23 July 2019. So I think it was reasonable for Avantia to charge its
arrangement and cancellation fee when Mr B cancelled his policy on 2 September 2019.
Mr B has provided us with evidence of alternative cover which he bought on 12 August 2019.
The start date is six days before Avantia renewed his policy. So I dont think its fair to ask
Avantia to provide a refund for the days Mr B was dually insured before 18 August 2019.
But I think a fair outcome would be for Avantia to refund Mr B for the days he was dually
insured from 18 August 2019 to 2 September 2019 which is £12.97. However, Avantia has
offered to refund Mr B its cancellation charge of £50. As this is more than the amount he
paid for dual insurance, I think this is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Avantia Insurance Limited to pay 
£50 to Mr B on sight of the alternative insurance policy he bought. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman