DRN-1855749
The complaint
Mr P says Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited unfairly declined a claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy as it believed his car was stolen as the result of fraud or deception. 
  
What happened
Mr P says he left his car with a garage in September 2017 on the basis that it would be 
displayed for sale, but not sold without his consent. In December 2017 the DVLA told Mr P of 
a change in the name of the cars registered keeper. He found that the garage had ceased to 
trade. Later, it emerged that the garage had sold the car to a dealership. The dealership sold 
it on, and a bank had financed the new registered keepers purchase of it. 
Mr P reported the theft of the car to the police straight away. He reported it to Accredited on 
6 June 2019, and it put a theft marker on the car. Accredited was then contacted by solicitors 
acting on behalf of the new owner requesting the markers removal. The solicitors told it that  
the car was bought in good faith, as the dealership was able to provide the cars keys and its 
registration documents to the new owner. 
Accredited declined Mr Ps claim for the theft of his car. It said the policy didnt cover loss of 
or damage to it resulting from fraud or deception. It also said there was an exclusion for any 
loss or damage to the car if it was being driven by, or was in the charge of, anyone not 
named on the certificate of insurance.  
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint. She accepted that the garage had 
seemed to Mr P be a legitimate business and that hed been the  victim of a scam it had 
carried out. In those circumstances, she thought Accredited had applied the policy terms 
reasonably. Mr P said the police didnt agree with her decision, especially as she hadnt 
contacted them. In his view, the car was stolen from him as part of an elaborate crime ring 
and he couldnt have done anything to prevent its theft. He said other insurance firms had 
paid similar claims.  
The investigator said she hadnt contacted the police as she didnt doubt the circumstances 
Mr P had described. She said we wouldnt allow an insurer to decline a claim based on fraud 
unless we thought it was reasonable, having considered all the evidence. She said Mr P had 
given the keys and the cars documents to the garage and she still thought Accredited had 
applied the policy terms fairly. Mr P said hed only given the garage one key, and that the V5 
registration document was forged when the car was sold. As there was no agreement, the 
complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P was assured by the garage that the car wouldnt be sold without his permission - yet 
thats what the garage did. So he was misled by its dishonest statement. It seems the 
garage persuaded him to hand over control of the car (with a key and the registration 
documents). I think its clear that the garage intended to profit fraudulently from its sale by 
depriving Mr P of the money paid by the new owner, which was rightfully his. 
I think it was reasonable for Accredited to conclude that Mr P voluntarily handed over control 
of the car and its documents  to the garage and that it was lost as a result of fraud and 
deception on the garages part. The policy wording is clear in stating that it doesnt cover that 
situation, so I think Accredited acted reasonably in declining the claim.  
Many insurance policies contain similar wording to Accrediteds policy and exclude loss 
caused by fraud and deception. Mr P says similar claims to his have been paid by insurers, 
although he hasnt provided details of any specific cases. I can only look at the 
circumstances of Mr Ps claim anyway. I think its fair to say that each case is treated on its 
own merits (by insurers and by this service). In the cases Mr P refers to, I think the insurers 
policy wording (or the claims circumstances) are likely to have differed from those here. 
In my opinion, it wouldnt have changed the outcome had the investigator contacted the 
police. We usually do that if we think we need confirmation of the facts, but they werent in 
dispute here. Unfortunately for Mr P, I dont think it makes any difference that the garage 
apparently operated as part of a major crime ring and may have disposed of numerous other 
cars by deception. Accredited was only concerned with what happened to the car it insured. 
  
I appreciate that Mr P has faced a substantial financial loss as a result of the claim not being 
paid, but as I dont think Accredited acted unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman