DRN-3314979
The complaint
Miss T has complained Billing Finance Ltd wouldnt allow her to start making payments 
towards her hire purchase agreement after a payment holiday. Instead they terminated her 
agreement and started the process to repossess her car.
What happened
In February 2020 Miss T took out a hire purchase agreement with Billing Finance for a car. 
She was to repay £278.92 a month over the next five years to repay credit of £10,000. Her 
first payment was due at the end of March 2020.
Before that payment could be made, Miss T contacted Billing Finance to tell them shed 
recently lost her job. Billing Finance agreed a payment holiday over the next five months. 
During this period Miss T kept in regular touch with them. Miss T provided Billing Finance 
with information about her personal situation. At different times, shed just given birth, had 
given birth to triplets, was in hospital about to give birth, had given birth the day before and 
was back in work. In one of these calls Miss T admitted that the previous information shed 
provided was inconsistent. She said this had been caused by her worry that Billing Finance 
were going to end the agreement.
By this stage and as there was limited evidence Miss T was going to be able to start making 
regular payments, Billing Finance offered her a voluntary termination. This would mean 
shed still have to pay Billing Finance around £7,700. Miss T didnt think this was fair. Billing 
Finance then offered an arrangement which would reduce her liability. After the car was sold, 
theyd reduce the outstanding amount on her credit agreement accordingly. They believed 
this would leave a shortfall of about £2,500 which Miss T would have to pay.
Miss T was unhappy with this. Shed also told Billing Finance about help she was receiving 
from a womens aid organisation after abuse by an ex-partner. She informed Billing Finance 
she knew of another customer of theirs in similar circumstances that had been allowed to 
return a car with nothing outstanding.
Miss T brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. Around the same time Billing 
Finance confirmed they believed terminating her credit agreement was the fair option as 
there was no evidence Miss T was in a position to repay the agreement in a sustainable 
manner. Miss T had also complained at the customer service shed received. She didnt 
think enough consideration had been given to her personal situation. She also felt how shed 
been treated by Billing Finance staff had a negative impact on her wellbeing.
Our investigator considered the evidence provided to us by Billing Finance. Theyd also now 
started repossession proceedings as they felt that was the right answer. Miss T continued to 
believe she should be allowed to make payments towards the credit agreement and keep 
the car. As evidence she provided to us a copy of an income and expenditure report 
completed on her behalf by a debt charity.
Our investigator reviewed a number of phone calls provided to us by Billing Finance in 
evidence. Their stance was that the person theyd been discussing this agreement with 
wasnt Miss T, but her daughter (who Ill call Ms D). The phone recordings show a person 
with a very different accent discussing the case with Billing Finance.
Our investigator was aware of the impact Billing Finances final response  which referred to 
the inconsistencies in the phone calls  had on Miss T as shed found this upsetting. On this 
basis he didnt go into too much detail in his view. Overall he felt Billing Finance hadnt done 
anything wrong and had met the terms and conditions of the credit agreement.
Miss T didnt agree and has asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 27 January 2022. I came to the same outcome as our 
investigator but provided more information about why I believed this was the right answer.
Billing Finance accepted the outcome. Miss T also confirmed she was happy with the 
decision.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. What 
follows is similar to my reasoning in that decision. I received no further comments that I need 
to take into account.
Its clear from Billing Finances submission to our service that they believed theyd not been 
speaking to Miss T in 2020 after the agreement was taken out and Miss T  supposedly  
was telling them she wasnt in a position to repay.
Firstly theyve shared with us evidence of a hire purchase agreement taken out by Ms D the 
year before. Ms D  after changing the number plate on the car  made a few payments then 
told Billing Finance she was being threatened by her ex-partner. Billing Finance  based on 
what theyd been told by Ms D  decided to write off the outstanding balance on the car 
when Ms D handed it back.
They then identified very similar circumstances after Miss T took out the hire purchase 
agreement which is the subject of this complaint. 
They compared phone call recordings. They worked out that the discussions they originally 
believed they were having with Miss T in 2020 were actually with Ms D.
This evidence is backed up in the discussions our investigator has been having. Based on 
the phone call recordings, he has confirmed weve also been speaking to Ms D, and not 
Miss T whos the signatory on the credit agreement.
Ive also seen the original ID information submitted by Miss T when the agreement was 
taken out, including a copy of her passport. Its clear from this that its extremely unlikely she 
could have been the person speaking to Billing Finance. I say this as I cant see she could 
have been someone giving birth to triplets or any of the other claims being made to Billing 
Finance.
Fronting an agreement where someone takes out a credit agreement whilst not being the person driving or taking care of the car means the terms of the credit agreement have been 
broken. This could be potentially considered as a criminal offense although theres no 
evidence Billing Finance will be taking this case any further with the authorities.
Im aware of the evidence Miss T has provided about support shes got from a womens aid 
organisation. I dont want to add to the trauma she  or more likely her daughter  suffered 
at the hands of an ex-partner but I think she will be able to see why Billing Finance obviously 
wanted evidence about what this involved.
We see many complaints from individuals who have been through a period of personal 
trauma and I appreciate how difficult it can be to explain what happened and to evidence 
that. However in this case I think theres potential that the truth hasnt been told.
Im in no doubt that Miss T broke the terms of the credit agreement which she took out in 
February 2020. This means that Billing Finance has acted appropriately to try and secure the 
car. Id have no problems with them pursuing re-possession.
Our investigator explained we dont have jurisdiction to review the issues Miss T had raised 
about how Billing Finance treated her as this constituted customer service. Its certainly true 
we dont have jurisdiction to deal with standalone complaints about customer service. But I 
dont believe this is the case here. Miss Ts complaints are about how she was treated by 
Billing Finance. These directly relate to her credit agreement and payments that were due. I 
believe we do have jurisdiction to consider these aspects and Ive done that here.
That said, I dont agree with Miss T that she was being treated unfairly. Billing Finance were 
trying to elicit what had happened and what help they could offer. I dont think its unfair to 
expect them to want some evidence to back up what Miss T  or in fact her daughter  was 
telling them, particularly when I review what they knew about Miss T and Ms D.
Im aware that Billing Finance has asked us to be careful about what we share with Miss T. 
Theyre concerned she could be tipped off about what is known about her circumstances. 
However Im obliged to be clear about the issues Ive considered when coming to my 
decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Ts complaint against 
Billing Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Ombudsman