DRN-2677784
The complaint
Mrs K complains that she was misinformed about whether she could surrender her Flexible 
Mortgage Plan. Her plan is administered by ReAssure UK Services Limited (the business).
What happened
In 2019 Mrs K received a letter explaining that her plan was to be transferred to a new 
provider. She says she contacted the business and was told that the transfer would make no 
difference  there would be no change in the terms. She says at that time she was given a 
value for the plan of just under £33,000, which she was very pleased with. 
She then had further cause to contact the business to change her direct debits details and 
was given another valuation of around the same amount. However, in March 2020 she 
received a letter that showed the value was falling. She was concerned, so contacted the 
business and was surprised to be told that she was able to surrender the plan, which she 
subsequently did. However, by this time the plans value had fallen to just under £28,000. 
Mrs K complained to the business. It said that the performance of the plan was outside its 
control and had been significantly impacted by the downturn in global stock markets around 
the time in question. It went on to explain that the option to surrender the plan had always 
been available to Mrs K, as set out in the plans terms and condition. It added that its staff 
were unable to provide advice, only factual information. 
Mr K referred her complaint to this service, but our investigator reached the same conclusion 
as the business. He agreed that the downturn in the policys value had been outside the 
control of the business. He also said that product guide for the plan had explained that it 
could be surrendered before the maturity date, and the guide also set out the potential risks 
involved in doing so. He felt that the staff member Mrs K had spoken with had correctly 
provided her with details of her options, as opposed to advice, and he felt that if Mrs K had 
enquired earlier about her options, she wouldve been given the same information. 
Mrs K didnt accept the investigators view. She said that she had asked about her options in 
earlier calls. The investigator asked if any call recordings were available, but the business 
confirmed that none were. 
The business did, however, provide a copy of a call note from September 2019 that said that 
Mrs K had been given a surrender value. It felt this indicated that Mrs K wouldve been 
aware that a surrender was possible. The investigator informed Mrs K of this, but she 
maintained that she had not been given consistent information and that earlier values 
provided had not been referred to as surrender values, just values.
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the matter was referred to me to 
review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I recognise that Mrs K will be very disappointed, Ive come to the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
It was clearly very unfortunate that Mrs K experienced a downturn in the value of her policy. 
But this did reflect that general situation with the markets at the time and, as has been noted, 
was not something that the business was able to influence. 
In respect of the crux of the complaint  what Mrs K was (or wasnt) told during her calls with 
the business  it is also unfortunate that the business isnt able to provide any call 
recordings. Where some items of evidence are missing, I have to make my findings on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is more likely than not to have 
happened in light of what evidence is available and the wider circumstances. 
Looking at the note of the call Mrs K made in September 2019, this does suggest that she 
was most likely given a surrender value. While it may be that the staff member she spoke 
with referred to it as simply a value, I think thats unlikely given that the note uses the term 
surrender and this would very much be the normal way such information would be given.
And there wouldve been no reason for Mrs K to particularly note the significance of the term 
surrender value at that point as ending the policy early wasnt something she wouldve been 
looking to do, as its value was still relatively high. So, it may have simply been a 
misunderstanding. I think that more likely than not, if Mrs K had asked about her options 
earlier, she wouldve been given the correct information.
So, in all the circumstances, given that it was explained in the plan terms that it was possible 
to surrender the plan early, prior to maturity, I dont think theres sufficient evidence available 
to support a finding that the business acted incorrectly. Ive not seen that the business failed 
to give Mrs K information about what options were available to her when prompted or gave 
her incorrect information. And I dont think that telling her she could surrender the plan  or, 
indeed, not telling about the option  when asked would constitute the business providing 
advice. It would simply be categorised as providing information, on the basis of which Mrs K 
could then make her own decision about how to proceed. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman