DRN-2721523
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained about poor advice received from Bellamy Wealth 
Management Ltd, which is an appointed representative of St Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJP). For ease of reference I will refer to SJP throughout. 
Mr K, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, says that SJP guaranteed that he and 
Mrs K would be offered a residential re-mortgage if they were able to pay off unsecured 
debt. After Mr and Mrs K re-arranged their buy-to-let (BTL) finances so they could do so, 
SJP was unable to find a new residential mortgage for them.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs K want SJP to repay to them commission earned on 
re-arranging two BTL mortgages, and to compensate them for their financial losses, as well 
as for distress and inconvenience.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
The details of the complaint have been set out in full in correspondence between the parties 
and by our investigator. Our decisions are published, and so its important that nothing in my 
decision can lead to Mr and Mrs K being identified. Given this, I will set out only brief 
information about what has happened. But I confirm Ive read and noted everything both 
Mr and Mrs K and SJP have provided.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs K are professional BTL landlords and have a portfolio of ten properties 
managed by a limited company which is owned in equal shares by Mr and Mrs K and which I 
will refer to as S Ltd. Mr and Mrs K also have an interest-only residential mortgage on their 
home which I understand at the time of the events complained of  late 2019 to early 2020  
had reached the end of its term and needed to be repaid. (It is still outstanding.) 
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs K approached SJP to arrange a new residential mortgage. They 
were told that, although there were available lenders, the amount of personal unsecured 
credit they had was likely to affect the amount theyd be able to borrow. 
In an email dated 19 June 2019 Mr K said that an equity release mortgage might be 
something he and Mrs K would consider, if the terms were right. But theyd like to look at 
refinancing two of their BTL properties in order to raise capital and pay off short-term 
borrowing.
In October 2019 Mr and Mrs K re-mortgaged two of their BTL properties to pay off some of 
their unsecured personal credit. The BTL mortgages were sourced through a specialist 
mortgage packager  ISF.
I will explain here that a mortgage packager is a third party which assists both brokers and 
lenders. They will often have access to products that are not widely available elsewhere, 
especially in sectors of the market where its difficult placing borrowers who have more 
unusual circumstances. Packagers can also help brokers find products that are most 
relevant to their clients. As their name implies, packagers are also able to help brokers 
package cases in readiness for underwriting, by compiling information and documents for 
the lenders to consider.
As mortgage packagers do not provide advice, only administrative services, they are not 
subject to mortgage regulation and so are not covered by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
In addition, BTL mortgages are unregulated products, and so any advice given by SJP about 
those doesnt fall within the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service either.
In December 2020 a residential mortgage was sourced by ISF with a lender I will call PM. A 
mortgage illustration was produced for an interest-only mortgage of £169,010 over a term of 
eight years. The loan was fixed for the first five years of the loan, after which it reverted to a 
variable rate of interest. Mr and Mrs K wanted to go ahead with an application to this lender.
In January 2020 Mr K explained that annual accounts were being prepared and it wasnt until 
8 February 2020, after detailed information about Mr and Mrs Ks finances had been 
compiled and provided to ISF, that the application could be submitted to PM.
A fact-find carried out by SJP gave Mr Ks annual income as £14,500 from Investment 
Income (shareholder dividends from S Ltd) and other taxed income of £8,500, plus state 
pension of £8,767 per annum. . Mrs Ks annual income was recorded as £11,500 from 
employment and £14,500 investment Income.
The mortgage application gave annual income as £23,040 for Mr K and £26,000 for Mrs K. 
In addition, Mr K had pension income of £8,736 per annum which was shown on the 
application form. 
PM had a number of queries about Mr and Mrs Ks finances which ISF raised with SJP, and 
which SJP referred to Mr and Mrs K. Clarification about their income and business, and 
information from their accountants, was then passed on to PM., 
PMs underwriters reviewed the application but had further questions about Mrs Ks income 
in particular. After taking instructions on this from Mr and Mrs K, ISF confirmed to PM that 
the £11,500 shown as earnings was consultancy income which Mrs K received from S Ltd. 
PM came to the conclusion that Mrs K must have a separate sole trader business and asked 
for details of this. Although it was explained that this was income Mrs K received from S Ltd, 
PM wasnt satisfied with this explanation. As a result, PM assessed the application on the 
basis of Mr Ks income alone. Unfortunately, this meant that PM wasnt willing to lend Mr and 
Mrs K sufficient to repay their existing mortgage. Frustrated with the delay and the requests for information, on 23 March 2020 Mr K asked 
SJP to look for an alternative source of finance for an interest-only mortgage for five or six 
years. This, he said, would get them to an age where an equity release option would be 
available to replace any mortgage on their home. As a result, ISF asked PM to close the 
application as it was going no further with that lender.
PM refunded the valuation fee of £385, as it had not carried out a valuation, but it would not 
refund the application fee of £135. IFS had been paid a fee of £99 for its administrative work, 
and also declined to refund this.
Mr K complained to PM about delays in the application, saying it had had the case for three 
months. Mr K was also unhappy about the information PM had asked for. PM said in its final 
response letter that on 11 March 2020 it had been told about a further sole trading business 
and asked for evidence of the income generated from this. (By this PM meant the 
consultancy fees paid to Mrs K.) Mr and Mrs K were unable to produce evidence to satisfy 
PM about the source of this income. PM wasnt able to find evidence of it in the bank 
statements of S Ltd, and there was no separate bank account for Mrs K. 
In the circumstances PM was only prepared to assess the application on the basis of Mr Ks 
verifiable income, which only allowed PM to consider lending about £80,000, which was 
substantially less than Mr and Mrs K needed. PM confirmed that ISF had asked PM to close 
the application.
In the meantime, in accordance with Mr Ks instructions, SJP and ISF were attempting to 
source another lender for Mr and Mrs Ks residential mortgage. Another potential lender was 
found, but ultimately this application didnt proceed either.
After receiving PMs final response letter dated 22 April 2020, Mr K complained to SJP about 
the way the application had been handled. SJP didnt uphold the complaint. In its final 
response letter dated 19 June 2020, SJP explained that, although it and ISF had tried their 
best to resolve the issue of Mrs Ks income with PM, ultimately it was PMs decision to 
decide what information it needed. 
SJP also noted that there were other matters outside its control which affected the 
application, such as Mr Ks credit file not being updated after unsecured credit had been 
repaid, and inconsistency in information held at Companies House. But although SJP 
acknowledged Mr and Mrs K had been put to a lot of trouble in providing the information 
requested by PM, the complaint wasnt upheld. As a gesture of goodwill, and with no 
admission of liability, SJP offered to reimburse the application fee of £135 paid to PM and 
the administration fee of £99 paid to ISF.
Dissatisfied with SJPs response, Mr and Mrs K complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that SJP dealt with all queries raised by PM promptly. She found no basis to 
support Mr and Mrs Ks contention that there was delay by SJP or that it had mis-handled 
the application.
Mr and Mrs K didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Mr K thought the investigator was biased and he reiterated his belief 
that SJP guaranteed that, if they paid off their unsecured debt, a new residential mortgage 
could be arranged. Mr and Mrs K did this, by re-mortgaging two BTL properties, but SJP 
failed to fulfil its promise, which has left Mr and Mrs K victims of SJPs negligence and 
incompetence. In addition, Mr K says that, through online information from PM, he believes that PM would 
have lent the full amount needed and so is very unhappy that SJP wasnt able to secure this 
funding. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I stated at the outset, I will not go into all the details of whats happened, as this is set out 
in the correspondence between the parties. As I also explained ISF isnt covered by the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, and nor is advice about BTL mortgages.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr K says that he and Mrs K were promised by SJP that, if 
they were able to clear unsecured credit (which was likely to affect affordability for a re-
mortgage), a new residential mortgage was guaranteed. Mr K also says that SJP said there 
were various lenders which would offer them a mortgage, but only PM was put to them as a 
suitable lender. 
Ive reviewed all the documentation on file and there is nothing to suggest SJP ever gave 
any guarantee that it would be able to secure a residential remortgage. I think that on the 
information Mr and Mrs K had provided about their finances at the start of the process, SJP 
was aware of the difficulties Mr and Mrs K were facing but was optimistic that it could source 
a lender, if Mr and Mrs K were able to resolve certain issues with their outstanding debts. 
Im aware that Mr and Mrs K took steps to re-arrange their finances in order to pay off 
outstanding credit which SJP had told them was likely to be a barrier to them obtaining a 
new residential mortgage. But Im not persuaded SJP promised Mr and Mrs K that if they did 
so, a new mortgage would be guaranteed  because that was a decision that was outside 
the control of SJP. 
The mortgage illustration PM issued in December 2019 was simply that  an illustration. It 
stated quite clearly that it was not an offer. Its purpose simply to show how much it was 
prepared to offer based on information it had been supplied with, and how much that 
borrowing would cost. But a mortgage offer would only be made if the full application met its 
lending and affordability criteria, once assessed by underwriters.
PM was entitled to raise queries about Mr and Mrs Ks finances as part of its underwriting 
process, and Im satisfied that SJP dealt with these promptly, obtaining further information 
from Mr and Mrs K about their financial situation. Ultimately PM declined to lend.
Im satisfied that information ISF required before the application could be submitted was 
outstanding until early February 2020. Im also satisfied there were issues outside the control 
of SJP which delayed the application  specifically Mr Ks credit file and information recorded 
at Companies House. 
Once the application was submitted on 8 February 2019, there was a considerable amount 
of back-and-forth between PM, ISF, SJP and Mr and Mrs K to answer the queries from PM. 
The timeline of what happened doesnt persuade me there was any delay by SJP in dealing 
with matters that arose during the course of the application.
Although SJP had been optimistic that a new mortgage could be arranged, this was always 
subject to Mr and Mrs K meeting the lending criteria of whichever lender they applied to. The 
reason the application was declined was unrelated to them re-mortgaging two BTL properties to clear debt  it was due to PMs dissatisfaction with the information about Mrs 
Ks income. Given this, I can see no basis upon which it would be fair or reasonable to order 
SJP to compensate Mr and Mrs K for any expenses they incurred or any commission paid to 
SJP for arranging the BTL mortgages.
Mr K says that SJP told them it could source funding from several lenders, but hasnt been 
able to provide details of these other lenders. Mr K is also critical of SJP using ISF. But given 
Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances placed them outside the mainstream mortgage market, I dont 
think using a packager was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
PM was the lender of choice, but unfortunately for Mr and Mrs K, it wasnt able to proceed 
with a mortgage offer. I note that ISF was able to source another lender and through SJP 
Mr and Mrs K applied for another mortgage. But that lender also declined to lend, for 
different reasons from PM, this time because the lender had established that Mr K had 
previously been disqualified as a company director and so didnt its meet lending criteria. I 
appreciate this was very disappointing for Mr and Mrs K.
So Im satisfied that there were lenders other than PM available to Mr and Mrs K but, of 
course, any successful application would depend on Mr and Mrs K meeting that lenders 
criteria.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied SJP hasnt done anything wrong here and so Im not 
upholding the complaint. I see SJP offered Mr and Mrs K a goodwill gesture of a 
reimbursement of fees totalling £234, which Mr and Mrs K might want to consider accepting.
I dont underestimate the difficulty in which Mr and Mrs K find themselves. I appreciate that it 
is stressful for them to still have their outstanding residential mortgage and I am sure it was 
very frustrating for them to go through the application process for the new mortgages with 
PM and the second lender without those coming to fruition. 
With regard to Mr and Mrs Ks existing mortgage, following guidance from the Financial 
Conduct Authority, lenders have put action on hold due to the pandemic. However I would 
not be surprised if, within the next few months, Mr and Mrs K are contacted again by their 
lender about repaying this mortgage. 
But Mr and Mrs K are not without options. If they havent already done so, they should 
contact their lender to see what help can be given in the short term. I also note that, in 
addition to their ten BTL properties, Mr K owns other properties, both in the UK and abroad, 
which are largely mortgage-free. So there are avenues that could potentially be explored in 
order for Mr and Mrs K to repay their residential mortgage if they are unable to re-mortgage 
to a new lender. 
If they are experiencing financial difficulty, Mr and Mrs K might want to speak to a specialist 
advisory service such as Citizens Advice, StepChange or Shelter. We can provide Mr and 
Mrs K with contact details for those agencies, if theyd like us to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to Mr and Mrs K to 
decide if they want to accept the goodwill offer of £234 made by St Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc in full and final settlement of this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman