DRN-3354562
The complaint
Mr K complains that Retail Money Market Ltd trading as RateSetter caused a delay in him 
receiving his money following a withdrawal request. 
What happened
Mr K made a withdrawal request from his loan-based (peer-to-peer) crowdfunding account 
with RateSetter on 2 April 2021. Mr K expected to receive the money into his nominate bank 
account by 6 April 2021 but as he hadnt received it, he raised a complaint with RateSetter 
on 7 April 2021. Mr K received the money on 8 April 2021.
RateSetter said it provided updates to Mr K explaining the delay was due to a technical 
processing issue outside of its control and apologised for any distress and inconvenience it 
caused. 
Mr K was unhappy with RateSetters response and so referred his complaint to this Service 
for an independent review. Since doing so, RateSetter contacted Mr K directly to make him 
an offer. It said it would pay him 8% simple interest on the withdrawal amount for the two 
days he was deprived of the money. Mr K didnt accept this offer. He said he had plans for 
the money and the situation was time sensitive. He also felt he should be compensated for 
the distress and inconvenience RateSetter has caused him. 
An investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint but didnt uphold. Whilst she felt RateSetter 
were at fault for the delay, she thought the offer it had made was fair and reasonable. She 
said RateSetter had explained that its payment processing provider had caused the delay 
due to it incorrectly placing a limit on its withdrawals. The investigator felt that RateSetter 
was responsible for its chosen payment processing provider and it had a duty to ensure the 
funds were made available when it said it would. However, she said the offer was fair as it 
put Mr K back in the position he would have been in had his withdrawal request not been 
delayed. She didnt think compensation for distress and inconvenience was warranted as 
RateSetter made him aware of the delay straightaway and reassured him that the error 
would be rectified shortly.
 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators findings. He said he had to take time out of his daily 
work activities to chase RateSetter to find out why his money had not arrived, and he 
suffered anxiety and stress as a result. So he feels he should be compensated for this. 
As Mr K didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
As RateSetter has made an offer in recognition of the delay caused, my decision will focus 
solely on whether that offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint. 
Where a mistake has been made, we expect a business to try and put a consumer back in 
the position they would have been in had nothing gone wrong. In Mr Ks case that would be 
to put him back in the position he would have been in if hed received the money on 6 April 
2021 instead of 8 April 2021. Mr K says he had plans for the money but has not explained 
what the intended use was and so its difficult to ascertain whether there has been a direct 
financial loss because of the delay. I have, however, considered that he has been deprived 
of the enjoyment or use of the money but Im unable to ascertain what he would have done 
with it had he had it sooner. As such, I consider the most appropriate compensation to be 
that which RateSetter has offered  applying 8% simple interest on the amount withdrawn 
over the two days he was deprived of the money. This Service uses 8% simple interest per 
year as a fair reflection of a range of possibilities a consumer may have used the money for, 
and its also the current statutory interest rate on judgment debts.
I understand Mr K also believes he should be entitled to compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delay. Whilst I accept that Mr K did have to contact RateSetter 
to find out why he hadnt received the money when he expected it, Im aware that RateSetter 
explained the reason for the delay and so he was aware that RateSetter was rectifying the 
issue as a priority. Considering the issue was sorted within a couple of days, he was kept 
updated throughout and the impact was minimal, I think RateSetters apology is enough to 
remedy any distress and inconvenience caused by the mistake. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman