DRN-3655872
The complaint
Mrs and Mr D complain Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) have declined 
their claim on their home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mrs D placed her diamond cluster earrings on the kitchen top, when she went to 
retrieve them a couple of days later, they were missing. After a thorough search, Mrs 
and Mr D couldnt locate the earrings so they made a claim on their home insurance 
policy.
Lloyds declined the claim saying Mrs and Mr D didnt have the optional Personal 
belongings Specified items cover whilst in and away from the home cover on their 
policy. And any losses are not covered within the home as the item would still be in 
the property however lost.
Mrs and Mr D after speaking with the police now think its more likely the earrings 
were stolen from the property, but Lloyds have said a new claim would have to be 
raised to address the theft claim. But Mrs and Mr D are worried about putting a new 
claim through and would like Lloyds to cover the loss.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt Lloyds had fairly declined the 
claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mrs and Mr D didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies do not cover for every eventuality and the onus is for a customer to show 
that they have a claim that is covered under an insurable peril on the policy. 
In this case Mrs and Mr D initially told the insurers that after Mrs D removed her earrings and 
placed them on the kitchen worktop, they were unable to find them. Losing or something 
going missing within the home is considered an unexplained disappearance and there is no 
insured peril on this policy to cover this situation. If an item has disappeared in the home, it 
isnt considered as lost as it should eventually turn up.  Im persuaded that the policy terms 
in this instance do not cover the loss Mrs and Mr D are claiming for, they also dont have any 
additional or optional cover that would cover them in the circumstances. I am therefore 
satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim.
I appreciate that Mrs and Mr D now suspect that the earrings were stolen and have reported 
this to the police. The police informed Mrs and Mr D that their situation fits with a trend of 
burglaries in their local area at the time. However, for Lloyds to consider this, Mrs and Mr D 
would need to submit another claim under the theft peril of the policy as this is a change in 
the circumstances and essentially a new claim under a separate part of the policy. I 
appreciate Mrs and Mr D are worried about doing this. I can only reiterate to them to read 
their policy carefully to see if the circumstances of the theft they suspect happened would be 
covered or not before submitting their claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman