The complaint
Mr E complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined his claim on his motor 
insurance policy following the theft of his car.
What happened
Mr E said his spare car key was left inside his wifes car which was parked near his. Thieves 
obtained the keys and stole Mr Es car. It was recovered damaged. Admiral declined the 
claim for two reasons. It said Mr E hadnt taken sufficient care to protect his car from loss. 
And it said there had been conflicting information in the statements Mr E and Mrs E gave 
about the circumstances of the theft. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr E 
had left the key in a car close to his own and this meant he hadnt taken sufficient care to 
protect it from loss. And he thought the statements contained conflicting information. So he 
thought Admiral was entitled to decline the claim according to the policy terms and 
conditions.
Mr E replied that he thought he had been treated unfairly. He asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr E feels frustrated by Admirals decision. His car was recovered 
damaged, but he hasnt repaired it and hes still repaying its finance. Our approach in cases 
like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy and fairly and reasonably.
I think Admirals main reason for declining the claim was its concern that Mr E and Mrs E 
had given conflicting information about the cars keys. Mrs E had reported the theft to the 
police. Shed told the police that they had two sets of keys in the house. But she later told 
Admiral that they had one set inside the house.
When the car was recovered, a person sitting in the car had one of the cars keys. Mr E then 
said that they may have lost a key. He later said that he recalled that hed left a spare key in 
the glovebox of his wifes car as she was a named driver on his policy.  
But Mr E also said that Mrs Es car was secure at the time of the theft. There was no sign of 
forced entry to either car. Mr E later said that the glove box had been disturbed and items 
DRN-1096610taken. But Mrs E didnt tell the police about this at the time. Mrs E later told Admirals claims 
investigator that nothing else had been taken from her car. 
Admiral said that there were inconsistencies in these statements that caused it to think 
information about the theft had been misrepresented. I cant say that this was an unfair or 
unreasonable conclusion to draw. And I think Admiral was entitled by the policy terms and 
conditions to then void the policy and decline the claim.
Mr E said his wife didnt know that the keys were in her cars glovebox and so there had 
been a misunderstanding. But, if that were so, then I think Admiral could still decline the 
claim under General Condition 3  Care of Your Vehicle. 
This requires the car to be protected from loss, locked and the keys removed when 
unoccupied. There was no evidence that Mrs Es car had been broken into. So the key must 
have been readily available to the thief. This is contrary to the policy terms and conditions. 
And so I think Admirals decision to decline the claim for this reason was fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19August2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman