DRN-3810732
The complaint
Mr S is complaining that, due to technical issues, he was unable to access his HSBC UK 
Bank Plc mobile banking app.
What happened
Mr S says he was trying to raise a dispute over a number of transactions but he wasnt able 
to access the app. He complained to HSBC about this and HSBC apologised and said it was 
down to a known technical issue. It later refunded around £40 for the transactions Mr S says 
were fraudulent. Mr S was unhappy with HSBCs response and referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said the terms of mobile banking set out 
that there may be times when the app is down, but he set out that there were other ways for 
a consumer to raise a dispute  such as telephone banking. He said Mr S was able to raise 
the dispute he wanted to and received a refund of the transactions. So he didnt think Mr S 
had lost out.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that this service isnt the regulator, so it isnt our role to fine and punish a 
business where something goes wrong. Our role is to consider whether a business has done 
what it should have done and, if not, whether its taken fair steps to put things right. I should 
also set out that, just because something went wrong, it doesnt automatically mean a 
business should pay compensation  I need to think about the actual impact this has had.
I can understand why Mr S was frustrated that he was unable to access his mobile app. 
HSBC has said this was down to a known issue with his phone operating system as a result 
of it updating the app at the time. But mobile banking is just one of the ways HSBC allows 
consumers to report potential fraudulent transactions. Ultimately Mr S was able to report the 
transactions and received a refund of them. So I dont think hes lost out financially as a 
result of not being able to access the app.
As I said, I do acknowledge that it would have been frustrating for Mr S not being able to 
access the app and hes had to make other enquiries as a result of this. But I can see that 
HSBC has apologised for the concern and inconvenience this matter has caused Mr S. And 
Im satisfied that this is a fair resolution to whats happened. So I dont think HSBC needs to 
do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman