DRN-3865142
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Lloyds Bank Plc incorrectly debited her account when she was trading 
in cash. Shed like the difference refunded.
What happened
Mrs C has a current account with Lloyds. She says she went into the branch to exchange 
some old £50 notes. She says she originally deposited £1,000 worth of notes and was told 
by the cashier she would need to deposit and withdraw the money. After this transaction was 
completed, she asked if more notes were available, and exchanged another £2,000.
Several weeks later Mrs C checked her statements and saw that only a £1,000 withdrawal 
had been recorded  with no record of the deposit, or a transaction involving £2,000. She 
raised a complaint with Lloyds.
Lloyds looked into what happened. They said they had checked their records and the branch 
had balanced that day, and there had been no system errors. The staff member in branch 
couldnt recall the transaction with Mrs C. The CCTV had only been retained for 30 days, so 
couldnt be checked. They couldnt find any evidence of £1,000 being paid into the account, 
or for a transaction of £2,000. They could only find a record of the £1,000 withdrawal as 
shown on the statement. But they offered £100 compensation for their delayed response.
Unhappy with this answer Mrs C referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened but didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything 
further. They felt there wasnt strong evidence of Mrs C exchanging £3,000 with Lloyds, or 
that Lloyds system was incorrect. They didnt think they could fairly ask Lloyds to refund the 
disputed £1,000 to Mrs C, but offered to consider any further evidence she could provide.
Mrs C disagreed, saying she was telling the truth, and that she should be offered more than 
£100 compensation for what happened. As no agreement could be reached the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, I dont think Lloyds need to do anything further here. I appreciate this will be 
disappointing to Mrs C, but Ill explain why.
Its not going to be possible for me to know exactly what happened in branch that day  I 
wasnt present, so have to rely on the evidence available to me. And where the evidence is 
unclear, ambiguous or simply unavailable I have to make my decision based on what I think 
is more likely than not to have happened.
In this case there is very little evidence of Mrs C exchanging £3,000 in cash that day, 
although I appreciate its difficult to track cash in the same way as electronic transactions. 
Lloyds have said their standard process would be to accept a deposit into the account of the 
old £50 notes and then a withdrawal to give the new ones. Id generally expect Lloyds to 
keep a record of these transactions.
The technical evidence from Lloyds suggests there was only the one transaction  the 
withdrawal of £1,000. Theres no record of a transaction for £2,000. Theyve said there were 
no issues with the branch that day.
Mrs C doesnt have a receipt or record from Lloyds about any exchanges of cash on that 
day. She also hasnt been able to provide any record of having £3,000 cash prior to the date 
of the disputed transactions.
Its unfortunate that by the time Mrs C reported the matter the CCTV would have already 
been wiped. This may have cleared up what happened that day  but I cant draw any 
conclusions from it not being available.
For these reasons I cant say its more likely than not Lloyds made an error in branch that 
day, and that Mrs C has lost out from this. So, Im not asking Lloyds to refund the disputed 
£1,000
Lloyds have offered £100 for the delay in their response to Mrs C. I consider this to be more 
than fair. Im aware shes already declined this, but if on reflection Mrs C wishes to take them 
up on this offer, she can contact Lloyds directly to discuss it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman