DRN-2579076
The complaint
Mr O and Mrs O complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited paid them £82,000 by 
mistake after they made a claim on their critical illness policy. Aviva has asked them to pay 
this back. Mr O and Mrs O say this was Avivas mistake, so they shouldnt have to return the 
money. 
For ease of reference, and as hes been most involved in this complaint, Ill mainly refer to 
Mr O. 
What happened
In April 2015 Mr O took out a joint life policy with his wife with a decreasing sum assured of 
£100,000. He also took out a critical illness policy with a sum assured of £18,066. 
Sadly, Mr O was diagnosed with Parkinsons disease in August 2020, so he contacted Aviva 
to make a claim. Aviva told Mr O over the phone that he was entitled to a sum assured of 
£80,000. 
In October 2020 Mr O spoke to Aviva and was again told that £80,000 looked like the correct 
amount to pay for his claim. After receiving a little over £100,000, Mr O called Aviva to check 
the amount was correct and was reassured it was. Aviva then called Mr O and said it had 
made a mistake and that he shouldve received £18,066. 
In a later call Aviva said it had made a mistake and would like Mr O to repay the amount it 
had overpaid. And it offered £5,000 compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused. 
Mr O was unhappy with this amount, so he asked this service to review his complaint. He 
said he was paid the money in good faith and that the policy had been closed after the 
payment had been made. He thought he was going to be able to pay off his mortgage and 
had requested early retirement with his employer which would have financial ramifications 
for him and his family in the future. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he understood how 
troubling and upsetting Avivas handling of Mr Os claim must have been. But Aviva had 
made a mistake, and Mr O was only entitled to £18,066 under his critical illness policy. The 
investigator also said he felt the £5,000 compensation was fair. 
Mr O disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said this situation had 
caused him and his wife additional stress at a time when theyre also dealing with his 
diagnosis. And he said hes been made to feel like hed stolen the money.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing news for 
Mr O, which is made worse given his current state of health. I want to assure him that I didnt 
take this decision lightly. I understand this is an incredibly difficult time for Mr O and his 
family. While I dont want to add to his distress, I think Aviva is entitled to ask him to repay 
the amount it overpaid him for his claim. And I believe the compensation it has paid is fair. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Both parties agree that Aviva made a mistake when it paid Mr O a little over £100,000 for his 
claim. Mr Os policy entitles him to a lump sum in the event he dies (roughly £80,000 at the 
time of this claim) and if he is diagnosed with a critical illness covered by his policy 
(£18,066). 
Ive thought about whether it was fair of Aviva to ask Mr O to return the part it paid him 
incorrectly under his life insurance policy. Having done so, Im satisfied Aviva is entitled to 
this money back. I accept Mr O spoke to Aviva various times about how much he would 
receive following his successful claim. But I dont think it would be fair for him to keep a 
payment he wasnt entitled to through his policy. Mr O would only be entitled to that sum in 
the event he had died. He contacted Aviva to make a claim for critical illness and the benefit 
sum under his policy is £18,066. So, that is the amount he is entitled to. 
Mr O believes Avivas compensation offer isnt enough in the circumstances. Ive no doubt 
this issue has caused him and his family considerable trouble and upset. So, Ive considered 
everything hes said in line with this services approach.  
I note Avivas offer is at the top of our severe category which takes into account long-term 
distress caused by an error made by a business. And Im satisfied Avivas error has caused 
Mr O long term distress. 
Mr O didnt pay off his mortgage with the overpayment and I note he made a decision to 
apply for early retirement in August 2020. But his employer has confirmed this was before 
Aviva made its mistake. So, I cant say Avivas mistake directly related to the decision Mr O 
made about applying for early retirement. 
So, I believe the £5,000 offer is reasonable and in line with what Id expect in similar cases. 
While I have every sympathy for Mr Os situation, I cant agree that he is entitled to keep the 
money he was incorrectly paid by Aviva. And I believe the £5,000 compensation he has 
been offered is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman