DRN-3950028
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Quilter Mortgage Planning Limited (QMPL) provided misleading 
information when they applied for a mortgage and they feel theyve lost out as a result of the 
actions they took based on this.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C used QMPL to help them find a mortgage for their new property purchase. 
They were making a purchase using the Help to Buy scheme and needed a mortgage that 
was compatible with this. Mr and Mrs C also had some negative information on their credit 
file.
Mr and Mrs C had an agreement in principle (AIP) with a high-street lender (company A) and 
they wanted to apply for this with QMPL. When the application was made it was declined 
and QMP said company A had informed it this was because of a change in its internal 
criteria. 
QMPL was able to find a mortgage for Mr and Mrs C but not with a high-street lender 
(company C). This meant the interest rate for the mortgage was higher than Mr and Mrs C 
had been hoping to achieve.
Mr C called QMPL to discuss the offer they had and whether it was worth looking at another 
high-street lender (company B). Mr C said hes spoken to another broker and theyd been 
able to get an AIP with company B. QMP explained when they had looked at company B and 
the AIP it had offered, the total amount of borrowing it would provide was less than what Mr 
and Mrs C needed for their purchase. On this basis he didnt think company B was an 
option. Mr C said it was strange that the other broker hed spoken with had been able to 
provide an AIP. But he didnt want to jeopardise the application which was going through 
with QMPL. But Mr C said hed speak with the third party again.
Mr and Mrs C continued with the application made by QMP and took a mortgage with 
company C. They later complained to QMP about the advice provided to take this mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs C questioned whether QMPL acted fairly when making the statements it did as 
part of its recommendation process and they said delays were added with the service 
provided. They said there is no evidence of any searches on their credit file to support what 
was said about other lenders being approached and this statement was incorrect. And this 
misled them to think company C was the best and only option for their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs C were also unhappy about information provided about their credit file. They say 
QMPL incorrectly said that soft searches would impact Mr and Mrs Cs credit score.
QMPL upheld the complaint in part. It agreed the service provided could have been better 
and it offered £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by this. But it didnt agree the 
information provided was misleading or incorrect. And it said the mortgage recommended 
with company C met Mr and Mrs Cs needs. The adviser was aware of different providers 
lending criteria and timescales and took this into account when making the recommendation.  
The mortgage with company C met Mr and Mrs Cs needs based on Mr and Mrs Cs credit 
file information and there being a limited amount of time for the mortgage offer to meet the 
exchange deadline for the purchase.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and didnt think QMPL needed to do anything else. 
She felt the offer made for the impact of the poor service was fair and reasonable. And she 
felt QMPL acted fairly when making the recommendation it did for the mortgage with 
company C and the adviser hadnt said anything which was untrue.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed. They asked whether evidence had been provided of failed checks 
and credit scoring with several high-street lenders and maintain that they made the decision 
to progress with their application because of being told this. They also questioned whether 
there was evidence of a failed AIP with company B and they dont believe this has been 
shown. Mr and Mrs C also questioned why they were given incorrect information about soft 
searches impacting their credit score and why affordability has now been highlighted as a 
potential reason for applications being declined when they were told previously that this 
wasnt an issue.
Our investigators opinion didnt change as she was still persuaded the outcome reached 
was fair and reasonable. She explained some of the information shed been provided 
couldnt be shared as it was commercially sensitive. And based on what she had been 
provided, she felt the actions taken by QMPL and its recommendation were fair.
Because Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that QMPL and its adviser failed to progress Mr and Mrs Cs application as 
quickly as they could have. It offered £300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience 
this caused. 
I think the offer made by QMPL for this failing is fair. Although there was some delay to 
information being submitted by QMPL to company C, I cant see there was any material 
delay to the application being made. The full offer was available by the deadline set by the 
seller, so I dont think this caused any detriment beyond the distress and inconvenience of 
needing to chase QMPL. And even when considering the lack of clarity around the soft 
searches on Mr and Mrs Cs credit file and any additional distress this would have caused as 
they questioned it, I think the offer is fair and reasonable and in line with what Id expect.
It also isnt disputed that Mr and Mrs Cs credit files have some negative information on them 
and they accept this could have impacted their ability to take a mortgage with a high-street 
lender. The outstanding issue is whether QMPL acted fairly when it provided Mr and Mrs C 
information about their options and subsequently proceeded with an application made to 
company C.
Mr and Mrs C feel the information provided was mis-leading because they havent seen 
evidence of additional searches on their credit file to confirm other high-street lenders would 
not have provided a mortgage that met their needs. They say the following statement made 
by the adviser when recommending company C was false and misleading. 
I discounted all lenders which appeared above this lender and deal due to credit scoring, 
you failed credit scoring with a several high street lenders meaning this is the most appropriate option to enable you to be able to purchase your first home
Ive looked at the information provided by QMPL and I dont agree the statement above is 
false or misleading. I accept there is little information on file to show individual searches 
were made by each lender but this adviser didnt say searches were made. He said credit 
scoring failed with several high-street lenders and I think its reasonable to say this based on 
the evidence provided. 
Mr and Mrs C had been declined an AIP by company A and during a telephone conversation 
with the adviser and Mr C, the adviser explained company B had accepted an AIP but only 
with a lower borrowing than was needed. So the amount needed hadnt been available due 
to Mr and Mrs C not meeting the criteria of this lender. It isnt clear whether this was because 
of affordability or their credit score. I accept they had been told previously affordability wasnt 
an issue. So I think it more likely it was the credit scoring that was an issue here.
The adviser discounted any other lenders which fell into the high-street bracket because of 
the failed applications and their knowledge. They hadnt said all were discounted because 
they had checked each other lender, but they had decided not to apply to these based on 
the results of the applications made and I dont think this was unreasonable.
After company C had been agreed on and the application progressed, Mr C called the 
adviser. Mr C explained hed spoken with another broker and been told company B could 
provide an AIP. It was at this point QMPL said the AIP hed completed with it didnt provide 
enough borrowing. QMPL didnt dissuade Mr C from going with the other broker and 
completing an application but they made it clear, based on the search they had made, 
company B wasnt an option that would meet Mr and Mrs Cs needs. 
With this conversation, I think Mr C was aware he had other options or potentially had other 
options if he wanted to apply for the mortgage with another lender and not company C. If 
another option was available, Im not sure why this wasnt pursued but Im not satisfied it 
would be fair to say this was because of a misleading statement by QMPL and its adviser.
Beyond the service failings in progressing the application as quickly as it could and providing 
correct information about the credit searches, I cant see that QMPL has done anything 
wrong. It made a recommendation for a mortgage that met the needs of Mr and Mrs C and 
was, based on what it has demonstrated, the best option it could find. So it follows, I dont 
think it would be fair to ask it to do anything else beyond the offer it has already made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman