DRN-2594312
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited for not offering cheaper 
contents and buildings insurance policies despite her request at renewal.
What happened
Mrs B had separate policies for both the buildings and contents insurance. But the renewal 
dates were close together. In 2018 both policies had gone up quite a bit. The buildings policy 
by a little under £80 and the contents policy by roughly £50. As a gesture of goodwill Lloyds 
offered to honour the prices of the previous year and Mrs B accepted this.
At the next renewal Mrs B cancelled the policy, shed found cheaper cover elsewhere. At this 
point Lloyds offered an incentive to keep Mrs Bs insurances. It offered a home policy to 
cover both buildings and contents for a total premium of £278.39. Mrs B complained, Lloyds 
waived policy cancellation fees but didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B brought her complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said at any point if Mrs B was unhappy with 
the premiums she could choose not to renew and to move her policies elsewhere. Our 
investigator said it was a commercial decision by Lloyds to offer an incentive in 2019 in the 
hope of convincing Mrs B not to move her insurance elsewhere. Mrs B didnt accept this and 
asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B said she wanted an explanation why she hadnt been offered cheaper cover before, a 
refund in the difference of premiums between what she had previously paid and what she 
was offered, and an apology.
Its up to Lloyds how it prices its products. And when Mrs B questioned the price in 2018 it 
offered a lower figure which Mrs B accepted. So, at that stage Mrs B chose to renew. At the 
next renewal when the issue arose again Lloyds offered a bigger discount to try and 
maintain Mrs Bs business  that is its choice. This was a different renewal and a different 
situation. The first year Lloyds offered a loyalty discount. In 2019, the following year, Mrs B 
had decided it was too expensive and took out a policy elsewhere at a price she preferred. 
Mrs B chose to move her insurance, she decided not to accept the improved offer of a 
cheaper policy from Lloyds. It was Lloyds choice to offer a different policy and Mrs Bs 
choice to decline it.
I think when asked to do something about the premiums in 2018 - Lloyds did. The year later 
when Mrs B asked again, Lloyds offered again. These were commercial decisions that 
Lloyds are entitled to make, and this service doesnt wish to dictate premiums to insurance 
companies. I can see how Mrs B found this upsetting. But, based on the details and the 
situation I dont see any evidence that Lloyds treated Mrs B unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman