DRN-3566545
The complaint
Mr B makes a number of complaints about JAJA FINANCE LTD.
What happened
Mr B makes a number of complaints about JAJA following a migration of his account to it 
from a different business. He says he had problems accessing his account and using the 
application (app) and so couldnt review his balance or pay it off. Mr B says there were 
fraudulent transactions on his account which he couldnt review or dispute due to the access 
issue and questions if the contract is enforceable as he didnt receive any documents about 
the migration. He says he didnt receive promised call backs and has been caused stress as 
a result of what took place.
Mr B would like the contract cancelled and interest as well as charges refunded. He would 
like all the information about this account removed from his credit file and compensation for 
what took place and for the delay in providing him with the information from his Data Subject 
Access Request (DSAR).
JAJA accepts there is a problem with Mr B using the app but says Mr B had access to 
account statements and could have made a payment by other means if he wished. It says 
migration documents were sent to Mr B in 2020 and says it refunded the fraudulent 
transactions. It also says it did call Mr B but accepts there were delays in responding to the 
DSAR request and accepts there were access problems. JAJA has paid £50 compensation 
and has offered a further £150.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought JAJA had offered Mr B a 
reasonable alternative method of paying his account balance. And that JAJA had refunded 
the disputed transactions. The investigator accepted there were issues but thought the 
compensation offer appropriate. The investigator recommended JAJA make contact with Mr 
B to try and sort out the account access problem and send him paper account statements.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and in summary says the phone network is not secure and so 
will not make a payment by that method. He says he has paid off the balance but would like 
the interest of just over £8 refunded. Mr B says he was mis-sold the product and says any 
information recorded on his credit file by JAJA is adverse and has affected his credit score. 
He says he still hasnt received the DSAR request information and says the compensation 
offer isnt sufficient for what took place.
My Provisional Decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that JAJA had made a fair and 
reasonable offer to settle this complaint. I made clear that I largely agree with the 
investigators view but thought there were issues that were still not clear and so a provisional 
decision would give both parties an opportunity to clarify some of those issues. I also said I 
took a different view to that of the investigator in respect of the need for JAJA to contact Mr 
B about account access and intended to propose a different method of dealing with that 
issue.
I appreciated Mr B questions the validity of the contract between him and JAJA. I was 
satisfied that having looked at the account terms and conditions that an assignment of the 
contract was entitled to be made. But make clear to Mr B that it would be for a court to 
decide upon such matters. I was satisfied that JAJA was entitled to charge interest as it had 
done here where a full balance wasnt paid off by a certain date.
I appreciated Mr B would have liked to have used his app to access and manage his JAJA 
account. But equally I said I cant order JAJA to make that app available to Mr B when its 
clear that it cant do so at present. I was satisfied that there were and are other methods for 
Mr B to access his account and was satisfied it was his choice not to make payments by a 
variety of different methods. I appreciated that Mr B questions if those other methods were 
secure, but I didnt think those concerns were reasonable and was satisfied that there were 
alternative safe methods of paying what I thought was a relatively small account balance.
I said I was also satisfied that Mr B knew that there was an outstanding balance that he 
could have repaid. I found that JAJA was entitled to charge interest and was required to 
report the account balance on Mr Bs credit file. I didnt think that JAJA should refund that 
interest correctly charged or remove any information which I thought was accurate from Mr 
Bs credit file.
JAJA accepts that it didnt deal with the DSAR request appropriately and that Mr B couldnt 
use its app. I accepted Mr B was caused distress and inconvenience and would have spent 
some time trying to resolve both matters. I didnt think Mr B suffered any financial loss and I 
didnt think the impact was particularly significant. I was satisfied that JAJA had fairly 
apologised for what took place and offered what I thought was a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer in total of £200. I appreciated the investigator suggested that JAJA 
should pay a further £200 but I thought it had already paid the £50 it initially offered and said 
no doubt it can confirm that before my final decision.
I thought it clear that what Mr B would like to happen is for this account to be closed. I said I 
cant see any real benefit in Mr B and JAJA discussing matters further as the investigator 
suggests. But I also said I cant see any reason why JAJA cant simply send Mr B all of the 
account statements and provide the information it says it uploaded to an online portal when it 
clear there is an access problem.
I didnt think it clear if Mr B has now repaid the account balance in full and I hoped both sides 
would confirm the up to date position. I made clear that if there was still an outstanding 
balance then I intended to order that the compensation be used to repay the balance and 
allow the account to be closed.
I appreciated Mr B says that the fraudulent transactions have not been refunded. I have 
looked carefully at JAJAs records and I was satisfied they had been. I said if Mr B has 
further information about them then no doubt, he could provide it. I also appreciated Mr B 
says other customers were affected by the app issue, but I made clear to Mr B that is not 
something I can fairly consider and could only consider his complaint. I was satisfied that 
JAJA did send Mr B a final response letter and did try and call him having looked at its 
records. I said I cant fairly hold JAJA responsible for Mr B not receiving that letter as its not 
responsible for the safe delivery of the mail.
Mr B has not responded to my provisional decision.
JAJA has responded to some of the questions I raised. It says there is no account balance and that Mr B has been given access to account statements. JAJA hasnt confirmed the 
compensation position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same decision that I came to in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
I intend to order JAJA to pay a total of £200 compensation and no doubt it can check if the 
£50 has already been paid which can be deducted from that award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order JAJA FINANCE LTD to pay 
Mr B a total of £200 compensation. Mr Bs acceptance of this decision would be in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman