DRN-3707493
The complaint
Mr W is complaining about the service he received from Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money (Virgin Money) when he contacted them to ask them to cancel some direct 
debits.
What happened
On 1 March 2022 Mr W completed a switch of his current account from another provider to 
Virgin Money. On 2 March 2022 he contacted Virgin Money by email and live chat to ask 
them to cancel some direct debits on his account.
Virgin Money replied by email to say Mr W should contact them by phone to arrange for the 
direct debits to be cancelled. But Mr W has a disability which means he cant speak on the 
phone. And in their reply Virgin Money also spelled his name incorrectly. Mr W replied to say 
he was unable to call Virgin Money due to his disability, and to raise a complaint.
On 7 March 2022 Virgin Money contacted Mr W to arrange for the direct debits to be 
cancelled. And on 8 March 2022 they sent their final response letter to his complaint. 
They said that they couldnt cancel Mr Ws direct debits by email for security reasons, but 
they could have done more to support him with alternative ways of cancelling other than 
telling him to call them. They told Mr W the direct debits had now been cancelled, and they 
expressed regret for spelling his name incorrectly. They accepted they could have given him 
a better service, and credited his account with £40 for the distress and inconvenience. They 
also added the details of their specialist team for supporting customers who are in financial 
difficulties, and included a leaflet about dealing with debt.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into Mr Ws complaint and said 
she thought the compensation of £40 hed received from Virgin Money was fair. But Mr W 
didnt agree. He said he wasnt in financial difficulties, so by including details of the support 
they had available for this, Virgin Money had caused him a lot of distress and anxiety. Along 
with them spelling his name incorrectly, he felt he should receive compensation of around 
£150.
Mr Ws complaint has been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Mr Ws complaint  because I think the 
compensation Virgin Money have already paid is fair. Ill explain why.
Virgin Money have told us they could have arranged for Mr W to cancel his direct debits by 
live chat rather than initially asking him to call them. So I think if theyd done that the direct 
debits could have been cancelled a few days before they were. But they were cancelled 
around five days after Mr Ws initial request, which I dont think is an unreasonable 
timescale. And none of Mr Ws direct debits left his account between the time he asked for 
them to be cancelled and when they were cancelled. So overall I dont think Mr W was 
caused a loss or any substantial inconvenience by the delay. 
Its unfortunate that Virgin Money spelled Mr Ws name incorrectly in their email to him, and 
Im glad to see theyve apologised for the level of service he received.
Virgin Money accepted they could have done better and theyve paid Mr W £40 for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced. Taking into account the overall impact on Mr W, 
I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
 
Mr Ws also expressed his upset that Virgin Money gave him details of their financial 
difficulties team when hes not in financial difficulties. However, I think they did so in a 
genuine effort to help and support Mr W. Although Im sorry to hear it caused Mr W such 
distress, I dont think they need to pay him any more compensation for including these 
details in their correspondence with him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman