DRN-3150015
The complaint
Mr P Mr P complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd trading as Allied Dunbar Assurance plc 
(Zurich) mis-sold him a Free-Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution Plan (FSAVC).
What happened
Mr P was a member of his employers defined benefit (DB) pension scheme. In December 
1987, he was recommended by one of Zurichs tied advisers to open an FSAVC and make 
regular additional contributions of £100 net per month to increase his future retirement 
provision. 
At the time Mr P was 34, married with children and had a salary of £32k per year plus £4k 
from self-employed earnings. His desired retirement age was recorded as 55 (the normal 
retirement in his DB scheme was 60). His attitude to risk was recorded as 2 on a scale of 1 
(very cautious) to 4 (speculative) and his contributions were invested in the managed fund.
In 1993, Mr P stopped the contributions for financial reasons but in April 1997, he met with 
another Zurich adviser and restarted his plan with net contributions of £100 per month. He 
was now earning £42k per year, his preferred retirement age was 60 and his attitude to risk 
was recorded as medium. The compliance print said Mr Ps DB scheme offered an in-house 
AVC scheme but didnt offer any matched contributions. It also offered the option of added 
years. 
In 1999, Mr P topped up his plan through another Zurich adviser. Contributions were now 
£300 per month. Mr Ps employed earnings had increased to £57K per year and the 
compliance print confirmed again that AVC options were offered by the DB scheme. It also 
stated that Mr P had been provided with a pension scheme benefit booklet and recorded that 
the adviser made the following recommendation; 
Increase [Mr Ps] Free Standing AVC contribution to £300.00 per month net.anticipated 
retirement age of 60. I gave you the brochure Topping up your occupational pension 
scheme benefits  your choice on 20-05-99, and discussed your options. You are keen to 
continue to benefit from ongoing professional advice and service, and would like the option 
to forego the A9 concession to enable substantial personal pension investment in the future. 
Therefore you have decided to increase your existing Free Standing AVC plan to £300.00 
per month net of basic rate tax. As you wish to retain full control of the level of savings the 
increase will be on a level basis, as per the existing arrangements, to your anticipated 
retirement age of 60. Your superannuation income is sufficient to support your revised 
contribution, and our head office will perform the necessary checks to ensure that your plan 
should not overfund. 
The brochure set out in generic terms the differences, advantages and disadvantages 
between an FSAVC and an in-house AVC plan or added years, and also explained that the 
onus was on the consumer to research the options available from the DB scheme as the 
adviser couldnt advise on them. 
Mr P topped-up his FSAVC again in June 2000 and August 2002 and the files similarly 
confirmed the options available from the OPS and that Mr P had received the Topping Up 
brochure. 
In 2002 the adviser also completed a fact find and noted; 
[Mr P] is interested in increasing his FSAVC to the maximum he can afford. He is aware that 
he has various choices regarding this increase. He could purchase added years, AVCs or 
FSAVCs. [Mr P] has rejected the added years system as it is too inflexible and he may wish 
to retire earlier. This would impose penalties. He has therefore rejected this route. 
The in- house route is run by Standard Life & Prudential. [Mr P] could stop his current plan 
and top up via a new in-house system. However, this would involve a new set of charges on 
the increase or for the whole plan if the total amount is switched. [Mr P] has rejected these 
options. [Mr P] has therefore decided to increase his present plan. 
During 2007 and 2008 Mr P reduced his working hours because of stress and looked into his 
options for retiring early or working part-time because of ill health, and in January 2009 he 
switched his FSAVC to a Self-Invested Personal Pension. 
In 2019 Mr P, through a representative (R), complained to Zurich. R said Mr P wasnt
informed of in-house alternatives with his occupational scheme and added years should 
have been recommended. Zurich argued that Mr P had complained too late. An ombudsman 
at this service decided that this wasnt the case. Zurich also thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld.
An investigator agreed with Zurich on the merits of the complaint and explained:
 
 because the initial advice in 1987 was before the Financial Services Act 1986 came into 
effect in April 1988, Zurich werent required to keep a written record of the advice or 
compare alternatives, just to ensure the product was appropriate which it was.
 the evidence demonstrated that the later sales met the necessary requirements and were 
conducted face to face 
R disagreed, and maintained that the advice was unsuitable and not conducted face to face. 
They also argued that:
 
 the FSAVC shouldve been reviewed as part of the FSAVC Review 
 the adviser comments in 2002 about inflexibility and penalties of added years was 
misleading and the adviser recorded inaccurate information 
The investigator didnt change her mind. She said the plan wasnt in-scope for the FSAVC 
Review and the sales met necessary requirements.
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I previously issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. I said:
Mr P was advised by tied advisers which means they could only advise on Zurichs products 
and they wouldnt have been expected to investigate whether the options in the DB scheme or elsewhere on the market where better than the product they could recommend. I also 
agree that Mr Ps pension didnt fall into the remit of the FSAVC review.
When Mr P received his initial advice in 1987, the Financial Services Act had not come into 
force and neither had the LAUTRO rules. So expectations on the adviser would not have 
been what they were later on. The adviser would have been required to follow common law 
requirements which were:
Not to make negligent mis-statements;
Where information was given, to disclose all material information, and
Where advice was given, to advise with reasonable care and skill
I cant see evidence that their advice in 1987 was inappropriate. Mr P obviously wanted to 
make further contributions to his pension and theres no indication the contributions to the 
FSAVC were unaffordable. The investment into a managed fund given Mr Ps age and 
recorded attitude to risk seems reasonable to me.
The later recommendations were all given post May 1996 which means the relevant 
guidance to follow was the regulatory update 20 (RU20). For tied advisers this stipulated:
A representative should not recommend his own companys FSAVC until he has:
- drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative;
- discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (taking account, among
other things, of the features described in this article); and
- directed the client to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more information on the
in-scheme option.
When these procedures are followed and documented, it is not necessary for the
representative to undertake a full comparison of the in-scheme AVC and his companys
FSAVC.
The limited information we do have suggests that Mr P was given brochures on three 
separate occasions in 1999, 2000 and 2002 which set out the information about his different 
options in a DB scheme. I appreciate Mr P says he didnt receive these brochures and 
theres also an ongoing dispute about whether Mr P was seen by the adviser in person (Mr P 
says he never met anyone after 1994). However, as said above, all of this has happened a 
very long time ago and whilst I dont doubt that Mr P is giving us his honest recollections, I 
need to consider that he simply might not recall receiving certain paperwork. There is also a 
letter to him on file from the adviser in May 1999 which starts with the words: Many thanks 
for the opportunity of meeting you. I enjoyed our discussion very much. This indicates Mr P 
did meet the adviser at least once in 1999. 
I think its more likely than not Mr P did receive these brochures and also met with one of the 
advisers at least once if not more; and even if he didnt, this doesnt automatically mean 
Zurich acted unfairly. The compliance reports kept by Zurich also indicate that in-house 
options in the DB scheme were discussed. So Im satisfied Mr P would have been aware 
that other options did exist.
However, its not clear what Mr P would have been told about the differences between the 
FSAVC and the in-house options. I think by simply providing Mr P with a brochure the 
adviser wouldnt have met the RU 20 requirements. Zurich needed to discuss the general 
differences between in-house options and the FSAVC with Mr P. One of the key features 
referred to in the RU 20 article was that charges under in-house AVCs would usually be 
lower as this would have the most impact on customers. The regulator indicated that it would expect the advisers file to have documentary evidence demonstrating that the procedures in 
the update had been followed.
Theres no evidence to show what- if anything- was discussed in relation to different 
charges. And looking at the brochure Im concerned the difference in charges is not clearly 
enough described there in any event. It says that charges in the in-house AVC may be lower 
than those in the FSAVC, particularly in the early years. However this is immediately 
caveated by saying although over the life of the policy these may even out. I think this could 
reasonably be understood to mean that charges will likely be the same overall which I think 
is misleading when in reality charges were likely to be lower in an in-house AVC.
Zurichs file does not contain any suitability reports or file notes which show if any 
discussions about charges took place. So Im not persuaded the required regulatory 
procedures steps were followed. 
I then need to decide what Mr P would likely have done if he had been given suitable advice.
I havent seen any persuasive indications why Mr P would have decided to top up his 
FSAVC if it had been made clear to him that the in-house AVC likely would have been 
cheaper. In 2002, the fact find records that Mr P wanted to increase his FSAVC to the 
maximum he could afford. It said he could stop his FSAVC and top up via a new in-house 
AVC, however this would involve a new set of charges on the increase or for the whole plan 
if the total amount was switched. So Mr P rejected this option as well as added years (which 
Ill address later in this decision).
Its unclear from the notes whether Mr P was told by the adviser he would accrue further 
charges by switching to an AVC or whether the adviser simply recorded what Mr P 
understood to be the situation. However, either way, I think Zurich failed to treat Mr P fairly 
here. Even if there were set up charges involved, ongoing charges in the AVC would have 
likely been lower and likely outweighed any initial costs over time. If Zurich suggested it 
wasnt cost efficient to switch they clearly misled Mr P. And if Mr P thought this was the 
case, Zurich should have pointed out to him that this likely wasnt the case and suggest that 
he should do a cost comparison. I cant see that they did anything like this.
I also considered whether Mr P would have chosen added years if Zurich had given him 
suitable advice like R suggests. First of all, I would like to reiterate that Zurich didnt have to 
establish whether added years was a suitable option for Mr P. It would have been down to 
Mr P to find out details from his employer and make his own decision. Zurich just needed to 
mention that this option existed, that it offered guaranteed benefits and should have 
recommended Mr P to explore this option with his employer. Again its not clear what would 
have been discussed around this. From the notes in 2002 Ill take that Mr P knew of the 
option of added years and discounted this as they were inflexible and might want to retire 
early and this would impose penalties.
Like I said before, its unclear whether Mr P had told the adviser his reasons for rejecting the 
added years option after speaking to his employer or whether this was information the 
adviser gave him. I think its misleading to describe early retirement reductions as penalties 
as its simply a reduction to make up for the fact benefits are being paid for longer and is 
usually done on a cost neutral basis to neither favour the member of the DB scheme nor the 
employer. 
In hindsight I appreciate added years looks like an attractive option for Mr P, however I need 
to consider what decision he likely would have made at the time when the advice was given. 
As explained I consider the original advice in 1987 was appropriate, so Im looking at the 
time between 1997 and 2002. One of the main differences between added years and AVCs is the risk they present. 
Generally, at the time of the sales, added years wouldve been considered suitable for 
someone that was risk adverse. The file indicates Mr P had a medium attitude to risk and I 
have no reason to doubt this. He was also still many years away from retirement and if he 
stayed with his employer (which was a fairly reasonable assumption) he would receive a 
guaranteed income in retirement. I dont think risking the loss of a minimal number of years 
in the scheme versus potentially building up additional provision in an investment based 
environment would have been viewed as a significant risk. These matters need to be
considered in the context of the time and not with the benefit of hindsight.
Investment return projections were a lot higher than they are now. So at the time, the option 
of an AVC would have looked attractive. Added years would have required Mr P to commit to 
extra costs relatively early on in his career. So as recorded in 2002, they would have been 
more inflexible than contributions to AVCs which could be stopped and restarted more 
easily. At the time of the advice added years would have likely looked expensive when 
compared to an AVC and projections likely would have shown that similar benefits could be 
achieved through investment returns.
So overall, I think on balance Mr P would have chosen to switch to his employers in-house 
AVC in 1997 and not have made any further contributions to an FSAVC.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr P accepted my decision. He admitted that due to health reasons he couldnt remember 
much of what happened during the sales. 
Zurich disagreed with my decision. In summary they made the following key points:
Mr P received advice over a number of years and its clear discussions took place at 
each point of advice. The adviser would not have been expected to record every 
single detail of the discussions. Just because Mr P cant remember that these 
discussions took place doesnt mean the required information wasnt presented to 
him. Risks and charges were explained on several occasions. 
Absence of documentation after such a long time isnt surprising. It wasnt 
compulsory for individual advisers to send their recommendation letters to Zurich. 
The lack of these documents on file does not mean regulatory processes werent 
followed. 
The booklet does not categorically confirm to the customer that the charges in the 
FSAVC and AVC are likely to be the same overall, simply that it is a possibility they 
could/may be.
Mr P received three booklets which highlighted the availability of the in-house AVC 
scheme as well as the differences between the schemes. This allowed Mr P to 
understand the alternatives and make an informed choice.
Mr P was looking to increase pensions provisions and liked the fact he could reduce 
or stop pension contributions and that he could take FSAVC benefits separately to 
his main benefits.
Ive considered Zurichs arguments, however they dont change my decision. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I agree Mr P likely received the brochures and that 
he most likely was aware other in-house options existed. I also think its likely discussions 
about potential alternatives took place.However, theres not sufficient evidence that the key differences between the in-house AVC 
and FSAVC and in particular the difference in charges were brought to Mr Ps attention. I 
appreciate that maybe not all details of a discussion would be recorded and I understand 
that the recommendation letters arent available due to the passage of time. However, based 
on the limited information available theres not enough for me to say Mr P was given 
sufficient information. Given that one of the key differences referred to in the RU20 article 
was the difference in charges and that this would have the most impact on customers, I 
would have expected to see some form of record about this, even in the limited notes.  
Im also still of the opinion that the brochure itself wasnt clear enough about charges. It 
should have clearly explained that an AVC was likely to be more cost-effective. Saying  
charges may be lower but may even out over time gives the impression-in my opinion- that 
there isnt much of a difference and doesnt fully reflect the difference in charges.
Also I would like to note again that the records in 2002 indicate Mr P was either given 
misleading information on charges or at the very least his own incorrect views were not 
corrected by the adviser.
Overall, I still think on balance Mr P didnt receive enough information during the sales in 
1997 and thereafter. This is mainly based on the information provided by Zurich and not 
based on the fact that Mr P cant remember receiving this information.
I remain of the view that if Mr P had been properly informed that AVCs were cheaper, he 
more likely than not would have chosen to switch to his employers in-house AVC scheme 
from 1997 onwards and not made contributions to an FSAVC.
Putting things right
Zurich should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Zurich should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 40%. So making a notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Zurich Assurance Ltd to calculate and pay Mr P 
compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman