DRN-3515650
The complaint
The estate of Mrs L (the estate) complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) released 
account information to an unauthorised person, without seeking permission from the 
executor. The estate also complains that Santander wouldnt help it to return money that had 
been transferred to the account.
The estate is represented by the sole executor who Ill refer to as M.
What happened
Mrs L had an account with Santander. One of her daughters, M, was her carer and had 
Lasting Power of Attorney (LPOA) for Mrs L. As such she was a cardholder on Mrs Ls 
account. Sadly, Mrs L passed away in April 2020. Miss L was the sole executor of the estate 
but was herself unwell and wasnt able to inform Santander of her mothers passing at the 
time.
Mrs L had two other daughters, whom she and M were estranged from.
In December 2020, F, another of Mrs Ls daughters, contacted Santander and advised it of 
Mrs Ls passing. F provided account details for her mother and told Santander that she 
wasnt the executor, but she was aware the executor had not yet informed Santander of the 
situation. F did ask for details about the account activity, and this was disclosed to her. 
F called Santander again a couple of days later, but it explained that now the notification had 
been made it could no longer divulge information to her without the authority of the executor.
M contacted Santander a few days after and made a complaint that it had shared information 
about her mothers account with F. She was unhappy this information had been shared with 
F without her permission, as a card holder with LPOA. She said as a result of Santander 
sharing the information F and another sister had entered a caveat to stop her probate 
application. 
Santander issued a final response to the estate accepting it shouldnt have shared the 
information with F. It apologised for protracting issues between the sisters. It offered £120 in 
recognition of this, up until now this has not been accepted by the estate and has not yet 
been paid by Santander. Later Santander went on in phone calls with M to explain that it 
hadnt actually made a mistake in sharing information with F.
M visited a Santander branch on 31 December 2020 to provide all the documents it needed, 
to allow her to carry out her duties as the executor of the estate. The documents needed to 
be sent on to the bereavement team so the funds in the account could be transferred to an 
account of Ms choice. The branch staff faxed these through to the team, included in the 
documents was a bereavement form.
M was informed during a call on 2 January 2021 that the team hadnt received this form. This 
caused M to worry that more information about the estate had been compromised. She 
complained about this as well as other issues that related to her personally, and not the 
estate.
Santander issued one final response covering the issues relating to both the estate and M 
personally. It awarded £150 to cover everything and paid this to Ms account.
M was unhappy with this and brought the complaints to this service. The issues that related 
to M personally were dealt with by this service under a separate complaint. The investigator 
that dealt with this complaint considered the issues that related to the estate only.
She didnt think this was a complaint that should be upheld, in summary she said:
Although Santander had originally said it shouldnt have disclosed information to F, 
she agreed it hadnt actually done anything wrong in doing so. This was because its 
process says that where the total amount invested is less that £50,000 there is no 
requirement for grant of probate (GOP) to be provided to prove representation of a 
deceased person. Instead, any individual is able to declare themselves as a 
representative. So, it was able to accept Fs notification of Mrs Ls death.
There was no need for Santander to contact M before sharing information with F, as 
the LPOA ended when Mrs L passed away, and although M was a card holder, she 
was not an account holder.
The only mistake Santander made in relation to this aspect of the estates complaint 
was mistakenly telling M that it shouldnt have divulged the information to F, when it 
had been ok to do so. As such she wouldnt ask Santander to increase the offer of 
£120 it had already made. 
It was accepted by Santander that the branch staff hadnt correctly faxed all the 
documents to the bereavement team. This had caused a five-day delay to the estate 
being able to transfer the money from the account. 
As the complaint is on behalf of the estate, only the inconvenience caused to it could 
be considered and not Ms distress at the situation, even though she had clearly 
been worried. 
The £150, Santander had paid to M in its second final response, covered the issues 
that had affected M personally as well as the inconvenience caused to the estate. 
Although there was no way of knowing how that was apportioned, overall, the offer 
was a fair one.
There was no evidence that Santander had refused to help the estate return funds 
that had been transferred to it after Mrs Ls death. But there was evidence that 
Santander had pointed M towards other agencies that should be able to help and 
advise on how to do this.
M on behalf of the estate disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so I have 
reached the same outcome as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons, Ill explain.
I must note that the issues that M has raised with Santander, which relate to her personally 
and not the estate, beyond those described in the preceding section have been considered 
separately by this service. As such in this decision I will only be considering issues that 
relate to the estate and impact those issue may have caused to it.
M had a LPOA for her mother and was a card holder on her Santander bank account. When 
Mrs L passed away the LPOA ended as did Ms authority over the account under this. 
However, she did still have the right to control the account as she was the sole executor of 
the estate. But as, due to her personal circumstances, M hadnt notified Santander of her 
mothers death, it had no way of knowing this when F contacted it to notify it, saying she was 
Mrs Ls next of kin.
Santander has a process where if the invested amount of a deceased customer is less than 
£50,000 it does not require a GOP to accept notification of death, just a death certificate. In 
this case the agent F spoke to was able to trace Mrs Ls death certificate through an online 
system, so F was able to successfully notify it. Its process also allows it to discuss the 
account with the person who makes the notification, so I cant say it did anything wrong in 
sharing the information it did with F.
I know these events caused a lot of worry to M and she says they caused her problems 
dealing with probate as her sisters and her were in conflict over matters. But that is a civil 
matter between the sisters and not something I can consider here. I can only consider if 
Santanders sharing of information caused any impact on the estate itself. And as Ive 
explained above, it was entitled to do this and so I cant fairly say its caused detriment to the 
estate. As such I couldnt award any compensation here. However, I appreciate Santander 
has offered £120 as a gesture of goodwill, which has yet to be accepted. I wont interfere 
with this offer, and should M decide to accept the offer she should contact Santander directly 
and let it know.
The second part of this complaint relates to the documents being faxed to the bereavement 
team by branch staff. Its accepted by all parties that M presented all the correct documents 
at the branch to be sent to the bereavement team, so M could start to finalise her late 
mothers account. Its also accepted that when faxing there was an error and not all of the 
documents reached the intended department. I know M was worried that this meant they had 
been lost or been sent to the wrong place, but there is no evidence of this. It appears that 
some of the documents that were faxed arrived at the destination as blank documents or 
illegible. 
So, the branch staff had to fax them through again, this meant that they were uploaded to 
the system five days later than they would have been if there had been no mistake. As 
explained above I cant take account of Ms worry here as Im only looking at the impact on 
the estate, which is the delay. 
Santander have paid £150 to M for this, the payment also took account of issues M had 
complained about that were personal to her and not to do with the estate (as noted above 
those issues have been decided separately to this complaint). So, I cant say what portion of 
this is for the delays and what relates to those other matters. Overall, though any award I 
would have made here would have been small. So, Im satisfied that a portion of this offer 
would be fair for the delays caused and so I wont be asking it to increase this.
Finally, I have thought about Ms claims that Santander refused to help her return payments 
that had come to her late mothers account. The late Mrs L had regular payments (seemingly a foreign state pension) to her account from another country. In the calls where this was 
discussed, Santander referred M to the probate team and the embassy of the country in 
question, as those were the best placed to assist in helping to stop the payments and return 
any that shouldnt have been paid. I have seen no further evidence that M raised this again 
with Santander. Based on this Im satisfied Santander did what it could to advise M the best 
way forward and I dont agree that it refused to help.
I know M will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying to 
resolve the estates dispute with Santander  can do for it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs L 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman