DRN-4255881
The complaint
Mr W complains Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited trading as The Aa          
(AA) mis-sold him a roadside assistance policy.  
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
When Mr Ws car broke down, he telephoned AA for assistance. Mr W asked 
whether his car could be fixed at the roadside  which he believed was due to an 
issue with his starter motor.
Mr W says AAs agent confirmed it could be, but if not  because a part was needed 
 this could be sourced and fitted by an AA engineer the next day. 
Mr W agreed to take out the policy over the phone, and an engineer was sent to his 
vehicle. The engineers job notes say a temporary repair was completed allowing Mr 
Ws car to be driven and he was advised to take it to a garage for permanent repairs.
Mr W requested the engineer attend the following day to fit a part, but he says the 
engineer refused. Mr W complained saying hed only agreed to the policy because he 
was assured his cars starter motor would be repaired, and that if a part was required 
it would be fitted  and so, he considers the policy to have been mis-sold to him. 
In its final response, AA said its agent had given clear information as to what 
roadside assistance Mr W was entitled to. It explained the fee he was charged 
included a one-off surcharge so he could use the service immediately. So, it was 
satisfied the policy hadnt been mis-sold. It added its engineer had completed a 
temporary repair and had therefore, handled Mr Ws claim in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. 
Mr W remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this Service. An investigator 
considered it but didnt uphold it. Because Mr W disagreed, the complaint has been 
passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Before I explain why, I want to reassure          
Mr W that Ive read his comments. But having reviewed the evidence, Im not persuaded the 
policy was mis-sold to him. 
The policy was sold over the phone and so, Ive listened to the call Mr W had with AAs 
agent. I agree Mr W made it clear it was important to him to know whether the engineer 
would be able to repair his car at the roadside before agreeing to the policy. But I dont agree 
the agent guaranteed this could be done. And I dont consider it was reasonable to have 
expected the agent to give a definitive answer on this during the call.
I say this because in response to Mr Ws question about whether the starter motor could be 
repaired the agent says: 
Its hard for me to say, Im not mechanically minded, we do have a lot of situations 
where we deal with it [starter motors] on a daily basis [the engineer] might be able 
to do a temporary repair or give you some advice on it and then try and fix it.  He 
adds It all depends on the situation.  
The agent goes on to explain that if the car cant be temporarily repaired at the roadside, it 
could be recovered to a local garage or Mr Ws home as hed broken down a short distance 
away from it. Or that alternatively, if a part was required a patrol vehicle could fit it the next 
day, provided Mr Ws car was somewhere safe and the part could be sourced. 
It seems Mr W thought the engineer would return to fit a part even if a temporary repair had 
been achieved at the roadside  and thats why hes aggrieved AA said it had fulfilled its 
obligations under the policy by jump starting his vehicle and getting his car back on the road. 
But this latter point is about the whether the insurer met its obligations under the policy and 
so, doesnt fall within the scope of this complaint which is about whether the policy was mis-
sold. 
Whilst the agent said a job could possibly be booked in for the following day  he didnt 
guarantee this would happen. The agent caveated his statement by saying that when the 
patrol engineer arrived, Mr W should check with the engineer as to what could be done with 
his vehicle. Given the agents position, they cant reasonably be expected to guarantee a 
diagnosis of the problem and confirm what repairs, if any, would be required, as thats the 
responsibility of the attending engineer. 
I accept its possible Mr W and the agent were at times talking at cross purposes, but that 
doesnt mean the information the agent gave was unclear. Ultimately, Im satisfied he set out 
the assistance available to Mr W under the policy  which Mr W agreed to. 
Mr W complains he was charged an additional £150 call out fee. So, Ive thought about 
whether the policy was mis-sold on this basis. The policy document says: If you have 
bought cover while you were broken down and/or you need to use it immediately then we will 
charge an extra fee. We will tell you how much this is when you call us. 
At the start of the call, the agent clearly says, there will be a non-refundable immediate 
usage surcharge for £150  this is in addition to the membership cost as you are currently 
broken down. So, Im satisfied the agent gave clear information by telling Mr W what the fee 
was for and how much it was before Mr W agreed to the policy. 
In conclusion, Im satisfied the agent provided Mr W with clear information as to what 
assistance he was entitled to under the policy and so, Im not persuaded the policy was     
mis-sold. It follows that I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman