DRN-3040541
The complaint
Mr Bs complained (through his wife, Mrs B) that TSB Bank plc (TSB) didnt support him 
appropriately when he was vulnerable  as a result of which, he ran up a substantial credit 
card which, which hes struggling to pay.
What happened
Mr B suffers from a mental health condition. When this is uncontrolled, it can lead to various 
types of erratic behaviour, including compulsive spending.
In spring 2020, Mr B suffered a mental health episode. He began to spend large amounts on 
his TSB credit card daily.
Mrs B wasnt immediately aware of the problem, as Mr B was away from home, having been 
sectioned. She found out at the end of April 2020. She immediately contacted TSB for their 
assistance in monitoring and limiting Mr Bs spending.
TSB told Mrs B that, as she wasnt a party to the account, they couldnt do what she wanted. 
But theyd note the details of her call. A flag was entered against Mr Bs account on 28 April. 
Mrs B remained concerned. So, on 11 May 2020, she put her concerns in writing to TSB.
Mr B continued to spend on his card. Between 18 April and 21 May 2020, Mr B spent 
£5,174.59 (net of refunds) on his card.
In early June, Mrs B wrote to TSB again. She said shed received Mr Bs credit card 
statement and seen how much hed spent. She complained shed told TSB about Mr Bs 
illness and the issues it caused. But theyd done nothing to stop him running up the bill. And 
she asked TSB to write off the debt, as Mr B couldnt afford to repay it.
TSB considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. They wrote to Mr B and told him theyd 
not made a mistake in the way they treated him. They said that Mr B had accepted the 
amount of credit hed been offered, and TSB wouldnt expect him to spend more than he 
could comfortably repay.
TSB conceded there had been many more transactions in April and May 2020 than theyd 
seen in previous months. But they said that one of the transactions had been flagged for a 
security check. And when they spoke to Mr B, hed confirmed the transaction was genuine 
so theyd removed the block.
TSB refused to write off the outstanding balance. But they did offer to do a financial review to 
work out an affordable repayment plan for Mr B.
Mrs B referred the complaint to us on her husbands behalf. She told us they were 
concerned TSB knew Mr B was ill, not working and couldnt pay back his borrowing, but still 
allowed him to spend over £5,000. And she complained theyd made the situation worse by 
writing to Mr B since, offering to increase his credit limit when shed told them his spending 
was out of control.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought TSB shouldve done more to resolve 
it. She thought Mrs B had done everything she could to alert TSB about Mr Bs situation. 
And, while she accepted TSB needed Mr Bs authority to deal with Mrs B, she said that TSB 
were inflexible about how they would accept that  which delayed matters.
The investigator concluded that the fair way to resolve the complaint was to say that TSB 
should write £2,624.28 (the spending after Mrs B had contacted them). She said she couldnt 
say TSB were responsible for anything before they were told there was an issue. And she 
excluded from this an item she was satisfied Mr B had the benefit of.
And she said that TSB should freeze interest from 28 April and refund any interest charged 
after that date, as well as applying any payments theyd received from Mr B to the 
outstanding balance.
In addition, she said that TSB should pay Mr B £500 compensation for the trouble and upset 
theyd caused him by the way theyd handled the issue and that TSB should review Mr Bs 
financial situation with a view to agreeing a sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding 
balance. Finally, she said TSB should remove any adverse information theyd reported on Mr 
Bs credit file.
I agreed with our investigator that the complaint should be upheld.  But I reached a different 
conclusion about what TSB should do to put things right  so I made a provisional decision.  
I didnt think TSB had followed their own guidance on how to deal with third parties like     
Mrs B and they shouldve done more to verify what shed told them, rather than relying on 
speaking to Mr B, whod theyd been told was unwell.  So I agreed with our investigator that 
TSB should write off much of what was spent after 28 April.  But I wasnt satisfied that the 28 
April transactions occurred after Mrs B had spoken to TSB  so I didnt include those.  I 
concluded the amount to be written off should be £2,445.88.
I agreed with our investigators view about freezing interest from 28 April and refunding any 
interest charged after that date, as well as applying any payments theyd received from Mr B 
to the outstanding balance.  
I thought extremely carefully about our investigators recommendation that TSB should pay 
£500 compensation to Mr B, bearing in mind that he  not Mrs B  is their customer. I 
explained that, whilst theres no doubt that Mrs B found the situation immensely stressful, I 
can only base an award on the impact TSBs actions had on Mr B.
But I was satisfied TSB were aware from their first contact with Mrs B that her husbands 
condition was very serious. And I think its generally understood that increasing the worries 
of someone with that condition would have a significant impact on them. So I concluded 
£500 is a fair amount of compensation for TSB to pay Mr B for what happened.
But I didnt provisionally decide TSB should review Mr Bs financial situation and remove any 
adverse entries on his credit report.  TSB confirmed that there are no adverse entries and 
Ive seen nothing to show that information is wrong.  And  although I urged both parties to 
work together to agree a way forward  I didnt think it was fair for me to require TSB to do 
something that needed Mr and Mrs Bs co-operation.  So I didnt decide they should review 
Mr Bs financial situation.
Mrs B  acting on Mr Bs behalf  agreed with my provisional decision.  TSB didnt comment 
on it.  But they ask for time to allow their support team to explore other, more advantageous, 
options to resolve his complaint  and theyd be contacting Mr and Mrs B about those.
Despite the extra time given, Mrs B has confirmed she and Mr B have heard nothing further 
from TSB and has asked that I make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, and on the basis Ive not been given any new information to consider, Im 
upholding Mr Bs complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and outlined 
above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about TSB Bank plc and 
directing TSB to:
Write £2,445.88 off the balance on Mr Bs credit card and calculate what he now 
owes;
Apply Mr Bs payments to the new balance. And if that results in a credit figure, pay
that to Mr B along with simple interest, calculated at the rate of 8% per annum from
the first date the account showed a credit balance until the date they pay him;
Backdate the interest freeze on Mr Bs account to 29 April 2020 and refund any
interest charged since that date; and 
Pay Mr B £500 compensation for the trouble and upset their handling of this issue
has caused him.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman