DRN-2907235
The complaint
 Mrs A complains Soteria Insurance Limited rejected her home insurance claim and gave her 
poor customer service. Shes represented in this complaint by her son, but to keep things 
simple my decision will only refer to Mrs A.
 
What happened
Mrs A had a buildings and contents insurance policy with Soteria. In August 2019 she 
claimed under the policy for storm damage to her roof. Mrs As own builder had carried out 
temporary repairs.
Unfortunately Mrs A then went into hospital for about two months and was unwell for some 
months after. In September 2019 Soteria called and wrote to Mrs A about her claim but 
didnt receive a response, so it closed the claim. Some months later Mrs A contacted Soteria 
and it reopened the claim and its surveyors visited Mrs A to inspect the damage. But it 
declined the claim, saying it wasnt storm related and so wasnt covered under Mrs As 
policy. 
Mrs A complained to Soteria and had further communication with it.  Mrs A said Soteria 
should have done more to assist her and asked why two surveyors had attended to inspect. 
She said Soterias surveyors hadnt physically inspected the roof but used a camera instead, 
and she provided a report from her own builder which she thought was more detailed. And 
Mrs A provided a video to show that during the visit, one surveyor hadnt properly worn his 
Covid face mask and had addressed her unprofessionally. 
Soteria said it correctly declined the claim as its surveyor reported the roof damage was due 
to wear and tear with no evidence of storm damage. And the report from Mrs As builder 
didnt confirm it was storm related. Soteria said it was right to close the claim in September 
2019, as it had tried to contact Mrs A and wasnt told she was in hospital or that her roof 
problem was continuing. Soteria explained there were two surveyors because they were a 
trainee and a supervisor. And it accepted one hadnt had his mask fully in place, though hed 
remained two metres apart from Mrs A. And it accepted hed addressed Mrs A 
unprofessionally. Soteria apologised for this and said it would give the surveyor feedback. 
After looking into things, our investigator thought Soteria acted fairly regarding the claim. But 
he agreed with Mrs A and Soteria that the surveyor had acted unprofessionally. He thought 
this had caused Mrs A some distress and asked Soteria to pay £100 compensation for this. 
Soteria agreed. But Mrs A didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for consideration. Therefore this complaint has come to me. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs As policy say it will only cover damage to her home
caused by specific events listed in the policy  one of these is Storm or flood. And the
policy terms also say loss or damage caused by wear or tear or anything that happens
gradually wont be covered.
When Mrs A claimed, she thought the damage had been caused by a storm but wasnt sure 
when the storm had happened. Ive checked the weather reports for the area where Mrs A 
lives and they dont show there were any storm conditions in the two months before she 
made her claim, as set out in her policys Storm definition.
Further, Soterias surveyor report said the damage wasnt consistent with an insured storm 
event. Instead, it said there was a cracked tile directly in line with where water was entering 
Mrs As home. And that the cause of the damage was natural breakdown of materials  in 
other words, wear and tear. I know Mrs A has pointed out the surveyor carried out the 
inspection using a camera instead of physically getting onto the roof, but I think the 
surveyors photographs are sufficiently clear. And while Ive seen that the report and 
quotation Mrs A has provided from two builders outline where water is coming in and the 
repairs needed, they dont say that the damage was caused by a storm.
Given that weather reports show there werent storm conditions and Soterias surveyor 
concluded the roof damage was consistent with wear and tear rather than storm damage, 
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Soteria to conclude wear and tear was the cause of the 
roof damage and not an insured storm event. Wear and tear isnt covered under Mrs As 
policy, so it was fair for Soteria to decline her claim. And the policy schedule shows Mrs A 
didnt have accidental damage cover under her policy. So while I understand Mrs A is 
unhappy Soteria has declined her claim, I think Soteria has declined it fairly and in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. 
And I dont think Soteria acted unfairly when it closed the claim in September 2019. It had 
tried to contact Mrs A by telephone and letter in order to progress her claim, but didnt 
receive a response. Im sorry to hear that Mrs A was in hospital at this time, but Ive not seen 
that Soteria was made aware of that. And after Mrs A got back in touch, it reopened and 
considered the claim, although I know Mrs A didnt agree with its claim decision.  
After reviewing the video evidence, Soteria itself accepts the surveyors mask wasnt fully in 
place and he addressed Mrs A unprofessionally. I understand Mrs A was shielding from 
Covid because of her health and age, so Im satisfied the surveyors mask would have 
caused her some concern, though Ive seen nothing to suggest she asked him to adjust it or 
that this then affected Mrs As health. And while I accept Soterias explanation that no 
offence was intended, the surveyor did address Mrs A in a very familiar way so I can 
understand why shes unhappy about this.
Putting things right
Im satisfied Soterias surveyor caused Mrs A some distress here. Taking everything into 
account, I think £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for that distress, along with the 
apology and reassurances about giving feedback to the surveyor that Soteria has already 
offered Mrs A  
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, Soteria Insurance Limited should pay Mrs A £100 
compensation for the distress it caused her. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman