DRN-3857917
The complaint
Mr K complains he got bad service from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
Mr K had a current account with Barclays. On 2 November 2021, he made a payment to an 
insurance company for £81.04. He disputed this transaction and on 10 November 2021, 
Barclays paid a temporary credit of £81.04 to his account. The chargeback inquiries were 
completed and Mr Ks account was debited with £81.04 on 12 January 2022. This resulted in 
a debit balance of £69.21.
On 26 December 2021, Mr K made an online purchase of £99. This was held for fraud 
checks and the payment wasnt made after it was represented by the insurance company.
Mr K had problems answering security questions on calls with Barclays and was asked to 
visit a branch to validate security questions and answers. He visited a branch of Barclays to 
do that. He was asked to leave the branch and the police were called. Barclays wrote to him 
on 18 January 2022 to advise him his account would be closed. Barclays paid in £69.21 and 
closed the account on 18 January 2022.
Mr K complained. He said he had no knowledge of what happened with the disputed 
transaction, and this caused the overdraft. He hadnt been advised of the fraud block of £99. 
And he said he wasnt badly behaved in the branch and Barclays had been unreasonable in 
closing his account.
Barclays said theyd investigated the disputed payment of £81.04 and found Mr K was liable 
for the payment. His account was therefore debited with the amount. Barclays said they 
agreed with the actions of the branch when he visited it. The branch took the correct 
decision to call the police. They said they decided to close Mr Ks account following what 
had happened. Subsequently, Barclays told us that the payment of £99 was blocked as part 
of fraud check processes.
Mr K didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Barclays acted 
reasonably.
Mr K didnt agree with our investigators view and asked that an ombudsman look at his 
complaint  and so this complaint has come to me to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three parts to Mr Ks complaint:
- The payment of £81.04.
- The payment of £99.
- Mr Ks visit to the branch and Barclays decision to close his account.
Payment of £81.04: Mr K made a payment of £81.04 on 2 November 2021 and then raised a 
dispute about it. Barclays placed a temporary credit to his account for the same amount on 
10 November 2021  this was normal practice, pending Barclays investigation into whether 
the payment was genuine or not. I can see that Barclays wrote to Mr K on 10 November 
2021 to say they were looking into the disputed transaction and the letter said, we have 
temporarily refunded the amount of £81.04pending the outcome of our investigation. In 
other words  this was only a temporary measure. Barclays wrote to Mr K again on 3 
December 2021 with information about the dispute  and the papers showed the transaction 
was a genuine one. Barclays asked Mr K to get in touch within ten days - if he wasnt happy 
with the letter - otherwise the case would be closed. Barclays told us they didnt hear 
anything from Mr K and on 31 December 2021, wrote to Mr K again to say We have been 
unable to recover the disputed funds, unfortunately this means that we are unable to refund 
your account
Barclays then closed the case  which meant that £81.04 was then re-debited to his 
account. Ive considered this. What happened - was standard procedure for a bank in 
looking into a disputed transaction. When the merchant (the insurance company in this case) 
provides evidence that a payment is a genuine one, then the dispute will normally fail  
which is what happened here. That meant that Mr Ks account was re-debited  and this 
caused the account to go overdrawn. But  Mr K was advised that the re-debit would take 
place when Barclays wrote to him, so shouldve been aware of that.
Payment of £99: Barclays told us during our investigation that this was blocked for fraud 
checks. Barclays, like all banks, have fraud prevention systems in place to block any 
payments they suspect may be subject to a fraud  this is not a comment on Mr K (or indeed 
any customer) but rather a process to help stop fraud. On the calls to Barclays, Mr K made 
the point that he hadnt been advised of the block. I considered this. He was sent a text to 
the mobile number they had in their records  which is different to the number Mr K 
contacted our service with. So  it looks like he wouldnt have received the message. That 
was unfortunate but we can only expect Barclays to message the number they had in their 
records  which they did. So, I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably here.
Mr Ks visit to the branch and Barclays decision to close his account. Ive listened to the 
calls made by Mr K to Barclays -  there were at least ten calls between 10 January 2022 and 
19 January 2022. Its clear that Mr K didnt pass security checks and so he was asked to visit 
a branch to re-validate and re-set the security questions and answers. Its also clear that Mr 
K became increasingly frustrated with Barclays processes and procedures here. But  they 
are set by Barclays for good reason and to ensure customers information is protected, so 
Im not going to dispute the need for them, or Barclays decision to ask Mr K to visit a 
branch. But I would say that Mr K became increasingly aggressive on the phone - this 
wouldnt have helped his case and wouldve contributed to Barclays decision to close his 
account.
Barlcays version of events when Mr K visited the branch are that Mr K wouldnt comply with 
their request to provide security question and answers, and matters escalated to the point 
where he was asked to leave. He refused to do so and the police were called  Mr K then 
left before they arrived. From what Ive read, Barclays acted reasonably here. 
Because of what happened - Barclays asked Mr K to close his account. Ive looked at 
Barclays terms and conditions, and they can do that if they wish. They wrote to Mr K on 18 
January 2022. The letter said We write in relation to your visit to the XXX branch on Tuesday 18th January 2022. During your visit, you spoke to a member of staff in an abusive 
manner and used physical intimidation during the course of the interaction. We take these 
matters very seriously and having carefully considered these events, we view this conduct to 
be unreasonable. We have not taken the decision lightly and it is with regret, that we are 
unable to continue to act as your bankers. Barclays then paid in the amount of Mr Ks 
overdrawn balance and closed his account. Ive considered the overall context of what 
happened, and I consider that Barclays action was reasonable in the circumstances.
Im sure that Mr K will be disappointed by my decision  but Im not going to ask Barclays to 
do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 January 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman