DRN-3449962
The complaint
Mr B complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial 
Services (Alphera) continued to ask him to make payments when he cancelled his 
agreement, and that this has affected his credit file.
 
What happened
Mr B entered into a hire purchase agreement with Alphera to acquire a used car in March 
2018. 
Mr B says he experienced problems with a loud noise from the gearbox and clutch when 
driving the vehicle home on the day he collected it. He contacted the dealership and 
arranged for the vehicle to be returned to them. 
Mr B says he cancelled his agreement within the 14-day cooling off period and returned the 
car to the dealership because it was faulty, and he didnt feel safe driving it. 
Alphera continued to ask Mr B to make payments under the agreement, so Mr B complained 
to the broker. The broker sent Mr B their final response to his complaint in May 2018. They 
said the dealership had fixed a loose undercover which was responsible for the noise. A full 
inspection had been carried out and no mechanical faults were found. They didnt uphold Mr 
Bs complaint and said he needed to collect the vehicle.  
Alphera sent Mr B notices of the sums in arrears on the agreement between May and 
August 2018, before sending a default notice in August 2018. The arrears were not settled in 
line with the default notice, and so Alphera sent Mr B a letter at the end of August 2018 to 
tell him that the agreement had been terminated, the vehicle would be repossessed, and 
they would take action to recover the amount due under the agreement. 
In September 2018 Alphera sent Mr B a letter of clearance, which confirmed that they no 
longer held a financial interest in the vehicle. 
In October 2018 Alphera sent Mr B a notice of sums in arrears for the full balance due 
following termination of the agreement of £4,463.04.
In December 2018 Mr B called Alphera to ask why they were chasing him for payment. They 
explained that even where the agreement is cancelled the balance is due, and so he 
remained liable for the sum set out in the arrears notice. 
In March 2019 Alphera reduced the amount owing by £1,400 as this is what theyd received 
for the sale of the vehicle. 
Alphera continued to send Mr B statements for his agreement and notices of sums in arrears 
for the balance of £3,063.04 between March 2019 and May 2021. 
In May 2021 Mr B complained to Alphera that they were asking him to pay for the vehicle. 
He said he believed hed rejected the vehicle and left it at the dealership. Mr B disputed that 
he owed the balance and asked Alphera to correct the information reported to his credit file. 
Alphera sent Mr B their final response to his complaint in June 2021. They said rejection of 
the vehicle wasnt accepted as no fault was found. They explained that as no payment was 
received a default notice was issued to Mr B in August 2018 after multiple arrears letters, 
and the agreement was terminated in August 2018 with the vehicle later being repossessed. 
They said they sent Mr B a clearance letter in October 2018 in error, and they offered £100 
compensation for this. But they said Mr B was aware this was an error, and so he was liable 
for the outstanding balance of £3,063.04. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B brought his complaint to us for investigation. He said he rejected the 
vehicle, returned it to the dealership and cancelled his agreement, so he shouldnt have to 
pay for the vehicle. Mr B said hed like the balance cleared and the information removed 
from his credit file. 
Our investigator gave her view that whilst Mr B could cancel the agreement in the first 14 
days, to do so hed need to pay the balance. She thought Alphera had made it clear to Mr B 
that there was a balance outstanding, and that the information reported to his credit file was 
correct. Our investigator didnt think the clearance letter sent to Mr B was incorrect, so she 
didnt ask Alphera to do anything more. 
Mr B didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
 
Mr B has said that he returned the car in line with the agreement. Ive looked at the 
agreement, and it does give Mr B the right of withdrawal. It says:
You have the right to withdraw from this credit agreement without giving any reason. This 
right begins on the day after you receive a copy of the executed agreement and ends 14 
days later
The agreement goes on to say:
If you withdraw from this agreement after the credit has been provided, you will need to 
repay the advance of £3,795.00 plus interest on this amount. Payment must be made 
within 30 days starting from the day after you gave us your notice to withdraw. We will keep 
the advance rental. Once payment has been made in full, ownership of the vehicle will pass 
to you.
Whilst Mr B had the right to withdraw from the agreement, this didnt end his financial liability 
to Alphera. The advance payment had been transferred to the dealership for Mr B to acquire 
the vehicle. So, in order to withdraw from the agreement, Mr B needed to pay Alphera the 
funds as set out in the agreement, and the ownership of the vehicle would then pass to him. So, Im satisfied that Mr B remained responsible for paying Alphera even if the agreement 
had been cancelled. 
Ive seen evidence that Mr B contacted Alphera in March 2018 asking to cancel the 
agreement, and they told him that this wasnt possible without repaying the balance. So, Im 
satisfied that Mr B knew the agreement hadnt been cancelled. 
Mr B says the vehicle was faulty at the time it was supplied to him and thats why he 
returned it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of £3,795. It was around nine years old 
and had travelled approximately 57,000 miles at the time of supply. When a person acquires 
a used car like Mr Bs, its reasonable to say that the expectation of quality is lower than that 
of a new or younger second-hand car. The price for the vehicle is lower, and this is reflective 
of the fact that the car is more road worn.
The dealership said theyd fixed an undertray on the vehicle which was the cause of the 
noise. No evidence of a mechanical fault or a fault with the gearbox or the clutch were 
identified. 
I havent seen any evidence of Mr Bs car being faulty, so Im satisfied that it was of 
satisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to him, and so he wasnt entitled to reject it 
under the CRA. 
Mr B said he received a letter of clearance from Alphera, and so he thought the matter was 
resolved. Alphera said they sent this letter in error, but they think Mr B was aware that he still 
owed the amount they were asking for. 
Ive seen the letter Alphera sent Mr B in September 2018. It confirms that Alphera no longer 
have a financial interest in the vehicle. 
I appreciate that Alphera say they sent this letter in error, but I dont think its contents are 
misleading. Alphera had repossessed and sold the vehicle when this letter was sent, so its 
correct that they no longer had a financial interest in the vehicle. This isnt the same thing as 
Mr B having no financial responsibility to Alphera. 
Alphera continued to send Mr B statements for his account, and notices of arrears which 
shows that he owed them a balance, so Im satisfied that Mr B knew he still had an 
outstanding debt with Alphera following the letter of clearance. 
Alphera offered Mr B £100 compensation for the clearance letter being sent. Mr B may want 
to contact Alphera to see if this offer is still available. 
Mr B has asked for the adverse information to be removed from his credit file. As Mr B didnt cancel the agreement, or reject the vehicle, he was liable for the payments 
under the agreement. These payments were not made. The agreement sets out, under 
missing payments:
Missing payments could have serious consequences: we will report missed payments to 
credit reference agencies, which may make obtaining credit from us and other lenders more 
difficult and expensive. The amount you have to pay us may increase. We may become 
entitled to terminate the agreement and recover possession of the Vehicle (we will need the 
court's permission to recover the Vehicle if you have paid at least one third of the total 
amount payable under this agreement). We may issue legal proceedings against you to 
enforce the debt, you may have to pay our legal costs and other expenses, and we may 
obtain a charging order (or in Scotland an inhibition) on your home.
Alphera sent Mr B notice of the sums in arrears under the agreement, and a default notice 
when these sums werent paid. When the default wasnt settled, they sent Mr B a notice of 
termination for the agreement, and the vehicle was ultimately repossessed. Alphera 
continued to send Mr B statements for his account and notices of sums in arrears. 
So, Im satisfied that Alphera informed Mr B about the sums that he owed them, and that the 
information reported to Mr Bs credit file is an accurate record of the status of his account. 
All things considered, Im satisfied that Mr B owes the sum Alphera are asking him to pay, 
that they are able to report information to the credit reference agencies, and that the 
information they have reported is correct, so I wont be asking them to clear the balance or to  
remove the information from Mr Bs credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman