DRN-2771180
The complaint
Mr P is a sole trader. He complains that he had difficulties accessing his internet banking 
facilities after Clydesdale Bank Plc carried out maintenance work in December 2019. He 
says this impacted the running of his business.
What happened
Mr P held personal and business accounts with Clydesdale.
Clydesdale carried out some maintenance work to its online banking systems overnight on 
3 December 2019. It let Mr P know that internet banking would be unavailable until 7am the 
following day.
Mr P found that following the work, he was unable to log in to his internet banking. He 
contacted Clydesdale about this and visited a branch for assistance. Mr P uses an Apple 
computer and says the bank acknowledged that there were problems with those systems. 
But no solution was offered, so Mr P raised a complaint. And when he didnt receive a 
response, he contacted us. 
Mr P says this matter had a significant impact on him, and particularly on his ability to run his 
business. In summary, he says:
He was unable to pay his staff as he usually would through online transfers, and 
instead had to pay them in cash. This involved two visits to the branch and he 
incurred charges for the withdrawals.
He couldnt confirm receipt of payments from customers. While hed not lost any 
business, this wouldve seemed unprofessional.
Hed spent a lot of time and trouble trying to sort things out with Clydesdale but to no 
avail. Hed stumbled across a workaround  restarting the computer after each online 
session and clearing the cache on his internet browser  but this made everything 
more troublesome than it ought to be and further impacted the running of the 
business, particularly interrupting the use of social media to speak with customers.
While we were looking into things, Clydesdale responded to Mr P in February 2020 and said 
thered been no compatibility issues for Mac users. It apologised that hed been incorrectly 
advised. The bank also said it shouldve done more to help Mr P and paid him £200 
compensation, sending £100 to his personal account and £100 to his business account. 
Both payments were later reversed at Mr Ps request.
Clydesdale initially told our investigator that there was a known issue connected to the 
December 2019 changes, which required customers to clear their cookies and cache. But it 
later said this had caused problems on 4 December only, and not thereafter.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He thought the problems Mr P had 
experienced  and which were still ongoing  were likely a continuation of the issues arising 
out of the maintenance work, which were known to the bank. He accepted this had caused 
significant inconvenience to Mr Ps business, although he thought this couldve been 
reduced if Mr P had used the banks mobile banking app as an alternative. 
To put things right, our investigator recommended that Clydesdale increase its offer of 
compensation to £350. He also said the bank should refund the charges Mr P had incurred 
for manual payments and cash withdrawals since the issue arose, as well as those for the 
account itself given that it hadnt been working as it should.
Clydesdale accepted our investigators view but Mr P didnt. He said he didnt use the app 
due to security concerns and that it wasnt a professional or practical way to deal with staff or 
customers. He also noted that the bank didnt suggest that as a temporary solution either. 
And he didnt think £350 was sufficient compensation for the time hed spent on the matter, 
particularly bearing in mind his hourly rate and as he was going to be put to further 
inconvenience and expense in moving accounts as the problems persisted. So he asked for 
an ombudsman to review the complaint, and it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision last month, setting out why I intended to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint and setting out what I thought Clydesdale needed to do to put things right. I said:
Clydesdale hasnt provided a clear explanation as to what issues it accepts are a 
consequence of its maintenance work in December 2019. But like our investigator, I 
think its most likely that the problems Mr P had in accessing his internet banking 
were down to problems with the banks systems. The issue only seems to have 
arisen shortly after the maintenance work was carried out. Clydesdale has referred to 
known issues arising from the work for Apple users, in its dialogue with both Mr P 
and us. And the banks investigation notes refer to customers needing to clear their 
cookies & cache after the December work if internet banking pages were 
unresponsive  further suggesting a known problem. 
However, the technical issue is only one part of the problem. This was compounded 
by the way Clydesdale handled the matter when Mr P raised it. I dont think it 
engaged with Mr P in a meaningful way to try and help him diagnose the problem or 
resolve it. I cant see that Clydesdale told him of the need to clear the cookies and 
cache, or that it suggested using the app. This seems to be because it didnt accept 
that there were any problems with its systems. As the bank subsequently accepted, it 
failed to call Mr P as promised, took too long to respond even after Mr P raised a 
complaint and required him to visit a branch unnecessarily. 
I think its important to note that the issues havent prevented Mr P from using 
internet banking altogether. Rather its that he was only able to do so intermittently. 
He describes occasionally logging on, but only after multiple attempts, and then 
being unable to log on a second time. He later discovered the workaround of clearing 
the cookies and cache and restarting his computer. Ive considered the impact this matter has had on Mr P, bearing in mind the above. 
He explained that the internet banking issues prevented him from paying staff by 
online transfer as he usually would, so he had to visit a branch to withdraw cash and 
instruct payments manually. This is supported by the record of charges he incurred 
on his business account for those transactions. And this demonstrates his limited 
access to internet banking as I dont think he wouldve made the payments in this 
way unless absolutely necessary. 
I think its right that Clydesdale refunds any charges Mr P incurred for branch or cash 
transactions as a result of the issues with his internet banking. I understand that to be 
all the branch and cash transaction charges that Mr P incurred between 3 December 
2019 and 1 March 2020. But Ill take into account any further comments from either 
party on whether any charges should or shouldnt be included. That covers the direct 
financial losses suffered as a result of this matter, as Mr P has confirmed that it didnt 
cause him to lose any business. I dont think it would be fair to require Clydesdale to 
refund the monthly charges Mr P incurred for use of the account itself as, but for this 
issue, the account was still functioning normally and Mr P received the benefit of it.
While there were no other direct financial losses, I think the matter has caused Mr P 
some considerable inconvenience, stress and worry. Having to visit the branch to 
arrange payment of his staff wouldve taken up a fair amount of time. And I can see 
how it would also have been stressful  bearing in mind the impression this mightve 
given to his staff, and fitting this extra work into his day. 
I can also see how being unable to confirm receipt of customer payments wouldve 
caused Mr P some further concern. Given his line of work, and looking at the activity 
on his account, I can see how he would ordinarily need to confirm receipt of 
payments promptly  and do so quite frequently. That was, at different times, either 
not possible or more difficult and time-consuming than it needed to be. Again I can 
see how all of this caused him more trouble and worry, and if not damage to the 
reputation of his business then legitimate concern about the possibility of such 
damage.
Mr P has also spent a lot of time and effort in trying to fix the problem. The 
workaround solution he discovered helped but it still made using internet banking 
more time-consuming and troublesome than it needs to be. Mr P has explained how 
clearing the cache and restarting his computer has a knock-on effect in using social 
media accounts. Given his line of work, I can see the importance of being able to 
access messages on those sites quickly, and the loss of even a few minutes could 
make a big difference to the service he and his staff can provide. 
While Mr P is a sole trader, Ive also borne in mind that his personal account has 
been affected too. So hes also experienced the same problems  and additional 
hassle  when trying to check his own account.
Ive thought about whether Mr P couldve alleviated the impact of these problems by 
opting to use the mobile banking app instead. He couldve done  Im not aware of 
any problems affecting that. But I accept his reasons for not wanting to use it. He has 
a particular set-up for making and receiving payments connected to his business. 
And its also fair to note that the Clydesdale didnt point him to that. It was also open 
to Mr P to switch banks altogether, and I understand from what hes told us that, as 
the problems have persisted, thats what hell do. But I can see how that wouldnt 
have been an easy fix for Mr P, bearing in mind the business activity and the 
administrative work required, such as notifying customers of new account details.Taking all of the above into account, Im intending to direct Clydesdale to pay Mr P 
compensation of £500 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
him. 
I recognise Mr P may feel this still falls short of an acceptable amount, given what 
hes said about his hourly rate. We dont typically award compensation based on 
units of time or at a complainants hourly rate. And I dont think that would be fair 
here, as the issues didnt cause Mr P to lose business or prevent him working. So 
Ive thought about the impact that all of this has had on Mr P overall, which includes 
the time hes spent dealing with it.
Ive also noted Mr Ps unhappiness that Clydesdale paid the compensation directly 
into his account without notification. But while I understand why he feels that was 
inappropriate, I dont think the bank did anything wrong here  the payment wasnt 
conditional, so it didnt affect Mr Ps ability to pursue the complaint. And the bank 
acted on his instruction to remove it. So Im not intending to require Clydesdale to do 
anything more about this.
Clydesdale accepted my provisional decision. Mr P responded with some further information 
for me to consider. In summary, he said:
Hed had further problems using his account that had prevented him from buying 
goods online. Hed felt forced into closing his business account as a result of the 
issues hed experienced.
While still accepting it was impossible to know whether hed lost business as a result 
of the issues, he thought that he wouldve missed customer enquiries. And taking 
time out to visit the branch in order to withdraw cash took him away from his work 
too.
He still didnt think it was acceptable for the bank to have paid money into his 
account without his consent, and highlighted that it took a number of calls and at 
least two letters before it would reverse the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not reached a different conclusion to that set out in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why Mr Ps further points havent changed my view. 
Firstly, Im sorry to see that Mr P continued to experience problems with his account and that 
he felt he had no option but to switch providers. But it wouldnt be fair  on either party  for 
me to make findings at this stage of our process on any issues that arose subsequent to 
those raised in this original complaint. Those are best dealt with by way of a separate 
complaint  and as I understand Mr P has already referred them to Clydesdale so that its 
had the requisite opportunity to respond, he can let us know if hed like us to investigate 
them. 
Ive also reflected on a fair way to compensate Mr P for what happened, bearing in mind his 
further comments about the impact to his business. But with no evidence to support any 
direct financial losses in this respect, I still think that the only financial losses for which 
Clydesdale should compensate Mr P are the bank charges incurred as a result of the 
problems he experienced. Lastly, I appreciate Mr Ps strength of feeling over the matter of Clydesdale crediting a 
compensation payment to his account without his consent. I still think that was done with 
good intentions and wasnt inherently unreasonable  but I do understand Mr Ps point of 
view on this, especially given the catalogue of events that preceded it. And I accept that 
Mr P was put to more trouble in reversing the payment than ought to have been necessary. 
But taking that into that account along with everything else as detailed in my provisional 
decision, I still think that £500 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr P 
was caused by Clydesdales actions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require Clydesdale Bank Plc to:
Refund any branch transaction and cash withdrawal fees charged to Mr Ps accounts 
between 3 December 2019 and 1 March 2020; and
Pay Mr P compensation of £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman