DRN-3608209
The complaint
Mrs P complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) provided her with 
unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mrs P complained about two instalment loans she took out with Lending Stream as follows:
Loan 
No:Date Taken Loan Term Loan 
AmountHighest Total Monthly 
Repayment* Loan status
1 April 2018 6 months £300 £170.40 Debt sold
2 June 2018 6 months £300 £246.72* Debt sold
*this shows combined payment owed for both loans when loans overlap
When Mrs P complained to Lending Stream it didnt feel it had done anything wrong and 
didnt uphold her complaint so she brought her complaint to us. 
Mrs P told us that, at the time of these loans, she had numerous county court judgements, 
she was constantly overdrawn, she had other unsecured debts and payday loans and she 
was on a zero hours contract. She said no checks were made into her financial status.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs P and Lending Stream told us about these loans. 
After carefully considering the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mrs Ps 
circumstances at the time and her history with the lender, our adjudicator didnt recommend 
upholding Mrs Ps complaint.   
Mrs P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint. 
Mrs P mainly said that Lending Stream didnt ask about her income and expenditure and 
made no checks on either of these. She has sent us an extract from her bank statements in 
support of her complaint and told us that she couldnt afford the loans in the first place. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Lending Stream provided Mrs P with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. Lending Stream was required 
to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any lending was 
sustainable for Mrs P before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically think about 
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream asked Mrs P for information about her financial situation. This included 
asking Mrs P to declare her income (which it said it took steps to check if required) and 
obtaining information from her about her normal expenses. Lending Stream compared the 
information Mrs P provided against national averages and adjusted the figures she provided 
accordingly to ensure that as far as possible it relied on information that was likely reflect her 
actual financial situation as realistically as possible. 
Lending Stream also asked Mrs P about any other credit expenses and did its own credit 
checks to gain an understanding of Mrs Ps credit history and find out about her current 
credit commitments. 
Lending Stream says the information it gathered showed that both loans shouldve been 
affordable for her as she would have had disposable income left after paying for everything. 
So it was satisfied that in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend.  
I think its fair to say that the income and expenditure information Lending Stream gathered 
at the time Mrs P applied for both these loans suggested that she was well able to afford this 
borrowing. When she took out loan 1 she declared her pay was £1,400 and her stated 
expenses, including an amount she was paying towards her current credit commitments, 
looked like it came to £750  which suggested she should have £650 surplus cash out of 
which to pay this loan. 
Her financial situation around the time she took out loan 2 some three months later, was 
broadly similar  her declared pay was now £1,500, but she said her normal expenditure 
was a bit less and she wasnt paying as much towards her outstanding credit commitments. 
On these figures, it looked like she should have around £1,000 disposable income. So even 
though she would now have to pay for both loans, the overall amount still looked comfortably 
affordable for her.
I dont know if Lending Stream did any checks to verify Mrs Ps pay  but broadly speaking, 
I think its fair to say these were both relatively small loans compared to what Lending 
Stream understood about Mrs Ps overall financial situation. When she took out loan 1, 
Mrs P didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted Lending Stream to 
any underlying money problems. And although she took out loan 2 when she was still paying 
for loan 1, I dont think that was enough to have caused Lending Stream to think this was a 
sign that Mrs P was having money problems at this stage or that it shouldnt have provided 
this loan. 
But I think some of the information it had gathered about Mrs Ps credit history was 
potentially concerning. The results of Lending Streams credit checks appear to show she 
had a number of defaulted and delinquent accounts. So I think Lending Stream would have 
understood that this suggested she had some previous financial difficulty and that she might 
still be having some money problems.  
On the face of it, this information appeared to be at odds with what Mrs P had declared and 
it didnt fit the overall picture of someone with the amount of disposable income that Lending 
Streams affordability assessment suggested Mrs P should have had. I also think it wasnt clear why someone apparently with this amount of surplus cash each month would want to 
take out these relatively small but expensive loans.
I think that Lending Stream ought to have done more in-depth checks before providing these 
loans to verify what Mrs P was saying about her financial circumstances to make sure it 
properly understood her financial situation before agreeing to lend. Lending Stream hasnt 
shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out proportionate checks before 
agreeing to lend to Mrs P when she applied for these loans. 
But that isnt enough of a reason on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. In 
order to uphold Mrs Ps irresponsible lending complaint, I would need to be able to say that if 
Lending Stream had done proportionate checks before lending it would likely have found out 
information that wouldve made it realise that the loans werent likely to be sustainably 
affordable for her. So I need to be able to see what I think a proportionate check is likely to 
have revealed at the time.
To help me understand Mrs Ps circumstances Ive looked at an extract from her bank 
statements from around April 2018 to give me some insight into her overall finances when 
she applied to borrow loan 1. For the three week period covered, I can see that Mrs P was 
overdrawn by amounts that ranged between £367 up to £670 or so, she was incurring daily 
overdraft fees and I can see at least one returned direct debit shown.  
But although I dont think the lenders checks went far enough, I havent seen enough to 
make me think that a proportionate check, if done at the time, wouldve revealed enough to 
suggest to Lending Stream that these loans were unlikely to be sustainably affordable for 
Mrs P and so it shouldnt have provided them. 
Although Mrs P has mentioned having county court judgements and multiple other credit 
accounts, I cant see those reflected either in the results of the credit checks Lending Stream 
has sent me or in the bank statement information she has sent. 
Im aware that when a lender carries out a credit search, the information it sees doesnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search will and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, this may explain any 
differences.
Also, it isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history 
showing other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt 
necessarily be good enough reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan 
application if the loan otherwise looked affordable  as here. Based on everything I've seen 
so far, I am unable to safely conclude that Mrs P was given loans that were unaffordable for 
her.
Being on a zero hours contract isnt enough of a reason on its own for refusing a loan 
application if a loan looks affordable. 
Looked at overall, whilst its clear that Mrs P showed signs she was financially stretched, 
I dont think the information Mrs P has sent me is enough to show that she was in such 
serious financial difficulty that I can fairly say Lending Stream should have been prompted to 
decline these relatively small loan applications had it seen this information before lending. 
This is why Im not upholding her complaintI appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Mrs P but hope setting out the reasons as 
Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from Mrs P. Lending Stream has acknowledged my provisional 
decision but made no further comment. 
As the deadline for responses has now passed, I think its reasonable for me to proceed with 
my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in more detail in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman