DRN-4402556
The complaint
Mr M complains that Advance Wealth Limited (Advance Wealth) didnt provide suitable
advice in connection with his pension fund and which caused financial loss.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 31 August 2023. Ive recapped here what I said about what 
had led to the complaint and what Id provisionally decided.  
Advance Wealth have been Mr Ms advisers for some time. I understand that Mr Ms
concerns centre on recommendations made by Advance Wealth from November 2021
onwards and losses incurred since then. Advance Wealths recommendation letter dated 3
December 2021 recorded the then value of Mr Ms pension (held with Aviva) was
£107,334.06. His attitude to risk (ATR) remained at 2 (out of 10). The following asset
allocation was recommended:
Mr M emailed the adviser in June 2022 expressing concern about a fall in value of some
£10,000, a loss which, as his ATR was only 2, Mr M hadnt anticipated could arise.
In his email in response dated 22 June 2022, the adviser said the funds were reviewed
regularly to ensure they were still suitable for Mr Ms ATR. Unfortunately, thered been no 
safe haven to run to since the beginning of the year. Bonds, although less volatile, were
also being affected by rising inflation and interest rates. The alternative was moving to cash
where thered be no movement up or down, but thered be the issue of when to buy back in
to the market, and the initial bounce would likely be missed. Trying to time the market was a
very difficult game to profit from.
Mr M emailed again in August 2022, concerned about a further drop in fund value. And again
on 14 October 2022, having received a valuation which showed his fund value had gone
down from £108,284.29 in December 2021 to £88,675.44 as of 6 October 2022. Mr M said
he was making a formal complaint that hed been let down by Advance Wealth which had
cost him £20,000 to date and his needs and requirements hadnt been met.
Advance Wealth responded to Mr Ms complaint by letter dated 15 December 2022. In
rejecting the complaint Advance Wealth said, in summary, that Mr Ms fund had fallen in
value but had remained invested in line with his ATR profile completed on 30 November
2021. The fund had since recovered somewhat and as at 1 December 2022 the value was
£93,635.26. Inflation, increased government borrowing and rising interest rates had had an
adverse effect on normally safe investments such as bonds and fixed interest funds which
made up 66% of Mr As portfolio. Advance Wealth referred to what the adviser had said in 
his email of 22 June 2022 about moving to cash. Mr M had confirmed to the adviser on 12
March 2020 that he was pleased with performance and didnt wish to make any changes. At
the annual review in November 2021 changes had been recommended to ensure the funds
remained suitable and in line with Mr Ms ATR.
Advance Wealth had noted that Mr M had an ongoing service agreement. But he hadnt had
any reviews during 2018 and 2019. Advance Wealth apologised and said it would be
refunding the fees of £966.19, plus a goodwill payment of £200 would be made.
Advance Wealth made new recommendations in January 2023 for Mr Ms pension. At about
the same time, Mr M referred his complaint to us. He said hed lost about £15,000 through
poor advice and failure to carry out his instructions. From the outset hed emphasised he
didnt want and couldnt afford to take any high risks and when, in view of his age (he was by
then approaching his 70th birthday), thered be no time for losses to be recovered. He added
hed found out hed been paying for reviews which hadnt happened. The charges had been
refunded but the damage done hadnt been rectified. Hed been advised to leave his pension
fund as it would continue to grow tax free. He now wanted to take 25% tax free but he
couldnt do that until the fund recovered which might take years if indeed it ever did.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. She referred to very difficult
investment conditions in 2022. She highlighted the losses which investments usually thought
to be very low risk, such as bonds and gilts, had incurred. She thought Mr Ms portfolio was
in line with his objectives and low ATR and that there was sufficient diversification. She
considered Advance Wealths recommendations had been suitable throughout and she
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators view. He said he didnt see how a 14% loss was
reasonable or acceptable. He said that Aviva had told him that his funds were all more or
less high risk. He queried why he was paying fees to Advance Wealth if he was losing
money. When hed seen things werent going well hed switched his wifes small pension
fund to cash so protecting the fund value. Mr M suggested Advance Wealth shouldve done
that with many of their funds and then bought them back at the appropriate time. The stock
market had seen record highs but he was still losing money. Hed been advised to leave his
pension fund to grow tax free and use other money. He shouldve been advised to take his
25% tax free cash when the fund was at its highest and move it into a cash based fund
where it wouldve been growing at, say, 4% pa.
The investigator considered Mr Ms comments but she didnt change her view. She referred
to Mr Ms losses as not being reasonable or acceptable but she maintained the cause was
unpredictable market conditions. She didnt agree Mr M shouldve been advised to take his
portfolio out of the market (switch to cash). She said that strategy came with its own risks,
including inflation and missing out on future growth and recovery. It was very difficult to time
the markets. Leaving Mr Ms funds invested was reasonable. Although Mr M had been
invested in equities, the percentages were low and there was sufficient diversification.
In response Mr M said, if it was accepted that his losses werent reasonable or acceptable,
Advance Wealth must be held responsible. He said he was paying for Advance Wealths skill
and expertise. If they hadnt done their job properly then they should pay compensation. He
didnt think financial advisers could simply say they didnt see what was coming or refer tohindsight.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me to decide. After Id
considered the complaint on a preliminary basis we asked Advance Wealth for some further
information. Ive referred to that further below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator referred to Mr Ms losses as not being reasonable or acceptable. But I think
she was expressing empathy with Mr M and that she recognised the impact of the fall in the
value of his pension fund on him and why he might not consider that to be within reasonable
parameters. But, as the investigator explained, our approach centres on whether the advice
given was suitable. If it was then we wont usually say an adviser should be responsible for
any investment losses if the funds dont perform as expected.
I dont agree with Mr Ms comments about expecting an adviser to be able to see whats
coming and advise accordingly. Financial markets can be very volatile and unpredictable.
We expect advisers to use reasonable skill and care but I dont think that extends to
predicting how the markets or certain asset classes might perform in the future. And trying to
time the markets  that is, picking the right time to move into cash and when to reinvest  is
very difficult territory and not a strategy that most advisers would endorse. Although
switching to cash may lock in a higher fund value, it can also crystallise a loss and mean that
any opportunity of recovery is lost.
Sometimes an adviser or investor may make the right call  it seems Mr Ms action in
respect of his wifes pension fund may have protected a higher fund value and avoided
losses such as those Mr Ms fund has incurred. But equally that strategy often wont work
out. And over time it may be that the switch to cash has cost rather than saved money.
Remaining investing, rather than switching to cash in reaction to market events or losses, is
generally regarded as the better course.
In my view, the key issue is whether the recommendations Advance Wealth made for Mr Ms
pension fund were suitable, taking into account his financial and personal circumstances,
needs and objectives and his ATR. If the funds were suitable then I dont think Advance
Wealth can be responsible if the portfolio fell in value and taking into account what Ive said
above about an adviser not being expected to predict market movements or the effect of
certain economic or political factors on particular asset classes.
From what Ive seen Mr M was a very low risk investor  2 out of 10. The (unsigned) risk
profile report dated 30 November 2021 said that any falls in the value of a portfolio that
matches that risk profile should be very small. Mr M has pointed to losses of about 20%
(although I think his portfolio has since recovered somewhat). I wouldnt describe that sort of
fall in value as small and I can see it wouldve concerned a very cautious investor such as
Mr M and I can understand why he queried things in mid June 2022. It seems that up until
then hed been happy with how his fund was performing. So, like the investigator, Ive
focused on whether the recommendations made in December 2021 were suitable.
The following asset allocation was recommended:
52% Fixed Interest
14% Cash
15% US Equity11% UK Equity
8% European Equity
Over half of Mr Ms portfolio was invested in Fixed Interest assets. These are debt
instruments  government or corporate bonds  which pay a fixed rate of interest. The risk
will depend on, amongst other things, the issuer. If thats a government with a stable 
economy the risk will be low, as theres little risk the paying government will default on the
interest due or the obligation to repay the capital. But corporate bonds may carry a higher
risk, depending on the companys financial stability and credit rating.
The risk profile report dated 30 November 2021 recognised that. It said, about a Risk Profile
2 of 10  Very low:
For example, investments such as cash deposits and bonds issued by the UK Government
(known as gilts) are considered low risk. Property, corporate bonds issued by UK companies
as well as other types of global bonds issued by overseas governments and companies are
considered medium risk. In the case of global bonds, generally those which pay a higher
income are riskier than those which pay a lower income level. Shares in companies in the
UK and other developed markets are considered high risk, while shares from companies in
emerging markets are considered very high risk. You can reduce the overall risk in a
portfolio by using 'diversification'  in other words, spreading your money across different
investments. By doing this, you can match your overall portfolio to the level of risk that is
right for you.
It's important that your investment portfolio matches your willingness and ability to take
investment risk. A 'very low' risk profile shows that your willingness and ability to accept
investment risk is well below average. Any falls in the value of a portfolio that matches this
risk profile should be very small. However, potential returns are also likely to be modest. So
if inflation (the rate at which the prices of goods and services rise) is higher than the rate
earned on the investment, the spending power of your money will be reduced.
A portfolio for this risk profile is most likely to contain mainly low-risk investments, including
money market investments and government bonds. It will also be expected to contain some
other medium- and high-risk investments, such as property, sterling corporate bonds, global
bonds as well as shares held usually in the UK. As a result, you should always check that
you are comfortable with what's included.
The Fixed Interest element of Mr Ms portfolio was the Invesco Perpetual Corporate Bond
Fund. By Advance Wealths own description, that would appear to be a medium risk
investment. And although Im uncertain as to exactly what series of the Fund Mr M was 
invested in, the various fund fact sheets all indicate a risk category of 4 (out of 7) which is
consistent with a medium risk investment.
The risk profile report also included a target asset allocation as follows:
Cash (Money Markets) 51%
UK Gilts 10%
UK Index Linked Gilts 4%
Sterling Corporate Bonds 7%
Global Investment Grade Bonds 11%
UK Equity 8%
North American Equity 4%
Property 5%
The portfolio Advance Wealth recommended for Mr Ms pension wasnt in line with that. Weasked Advance Wealth why that was. We also said the asset allocation actually
recommended included a higher equity element (UK and European) which, coupled with the
Invesco Perpetual Corporate Bond Fund which could be regarded as a medium risk
investment, appeared to be too much risk for an investor with an ATR of 2 out of 10.
In reply, Advance Wealth said it used a Dynamic Planner to establish a risk profile but asset
allocation was based on Standard Life Elevate suggested allocations. A sample risk profile
for risk level 2 was provided. The suggested asset allocation was cash 14%; Fixed Interest
52%; Property 0%; UK Equities 11%; Developed Markets 23%; Emerging Markets 0%. The
asset allocation and preferred funds were selected from Advance Wealths research in
March 2021. Funds are selected initially from Morningstar Gold rated funds within each
sector. At the time the Invesco Perpetual Corporate Bond Fund was the third best
performing fund within the sector with the lowest volatility which Advance Wealth considered
made it suitable at the time to form part of the asset allocation for risk level 2. Advance
Wealth said systemic market falls had affected volatility since the recommendation.
The adviser also commented. He said Mr M had always maintained that 1 out of 10 wouldve
been too low risk and holding too much cash and 3 out of 10 wouldve offered too much
volatility. The adviser said Mr M had specifically requested the opportunity for investment
growth. The portfolio had 14% allocated to cash which wouldnt provide a growth opportunity
and would lose value with inflation. The use of corporate bonds was to provide some stability
within the portfolio whilst providing a yield. It was only with the benefit of hindsight that it
became clear that 2021 was a very bad year for the full spectrum of bonds with long dated
government bonds, usually regarded as very low risk, dropping the most in value. The
investment in global developed markets equities was again to give the opportunity for
growth, which Mr M had specified.
The asset allocation Advance Wealth recommended was in line with the Standard Life
Elevate target allocation. But I still think the Invesco Perpetual Corporate Bond Fund is of
concern, given what Ive said above and that it represented 52% of Mr Ms fund. I also note
that the UK equity element was in a smaller companies fund. Smaller companies tend to be
higher risk than larger, usually more well known and financially established companies.
Further, Im not persuaded that Mr M wanted the opportunity for growth. In bringing his
complaint Mr M has made it clear that he didnt want to take any real risk with his pension
portfolio. And thats consistent with an ATR of 2 out of 10  very low risk. Theres nothing in
the fact find, risk profile report or suitability letter which records that Mr M was seeking
growth. The risk profile report says, given his ATR, potential returns are likely to be modest
and that inflation could reduce the spending power. Mr M appears to have accepted that.
All in all Im not persuaded that the portfolio that Advance Wealth recommended in
December 2021 for Mr Ms pension portfolio was suitable. I think it represented more risk
than Mr M was prepared to accept.
Ive set out below what Advance Wealth needs to do to see if Mr M has suffered any
financial loss. I should emphasise, as a calculation is required, I dont know if Mr M has
actually incurred a financial loss. It may be that his portfolio has performed better than the
benchmark Ive suggested in which case the only payment due will be the £200 Ive awarded
for distress and inconvenience.
I went on to set out what Advance Wealth needed to do to put things right for Mr M. 
Essentially I said Mr Ms actual fund value should be compared to what it wouldve been 
worth using a benchmark: Bank of England average return from fixed rate bonds.
Responses to my provisional decisionMr M accepted my provisional decision. He said he assumed he wouldnt know the amount 
of compensation until wed heard from Advance Wealth with their calculations and that any 
compensation would be tax free. We explained that Advance Wealth would need to carry out 
the calculations and provide details to Mr M. Any redress would be paid into the pension 
fund tax free but tax would be deducted if a direct cash sum was paid. Mr M said he hoped 
wed be able to check the calculations as he wasnt sure hed understand them. 
Advance Wealth didnt agree with my provisional decision. Advance Wealth made a number 
of initial comments which Ive summarised: 
The risk rating for the Invesco Perpetual Corporate Bond (as part of the portfolio) was 
commensurate with Mr Ms ATR in December 2021 and only started to increase 
towards the end of 2022. 
The benchmark Id suggested wouldnt normally form part of a portfolio where the 
client requires ongoing service from an adviser.  
The asset allocation tools Advance Wealth used suggested, for a cautious (2 out of 
10 ATR) portfolio, a fixed interest/equities mix. Advance Wealth asked if we could 
point them towards an asset allocation tool which suggested fixed rate bonds would 
be more suitable. Theyd generally point a 1 out of 10 ATR client to a guaranteed 
product but 2 out of 10 ATR suggests a little more risk, hence the allocation tools 
gave that output.  Advance Wealth said it was open to suggestions as to whatever 
tool wed suggest and which showed the appropriate small amount of equities  that 
is avoiding corporate bonds but still true to the asset allocation for a fair comparison. 
At Mr Ms next annual review in January 2023 Advance Wealth recommended that 
he come out of the Invesco Perpetual Corporate Bond. Advance Wealth queried if 
the redress calculation should be from December 2021 to January 2023. 
Although a providers fund fact sheet will show a risk rating, risk can also be 
measured via the FE Risk Score. Advance Wealth preferred that methodology and 
chose funds based on Morningstar ratings and the FE Risk Scores. 
At the time of the advice, the risk scores for both the Vanguard and the Invesco 
Corporate Bond Funds were suitable. A timeline was produced. Thered been high 
levels of volatility in the fixed interest sector (only seen twice before in the last 100 
years). Snapshotting the risk rating now tells a different story to when the funds were 
recommended. The outcome wasnt as planned but not because the choice was 
wrong. 
When taking into account volatility the Invesco Corporate Bond Fund comes out 
lower risk than gilts. The FE Risk Score (focusing on gold rated funds) shows theyve 
generally gone up in risk following the 2022 collapse.
I considered Advance Wealths comments and responded to them. I made the following 
points:
As to the benchmark Id suggested, that didnt mean Mr M would only have invested 
in that way (Bank of England fixed rate bonds). Rather its the sort of return we think 
a consumer with that risk profile  2 out of 10 very low  couldve obtained. Thats our 
approach to benchmarks generally  that they are indicative of likely return, rather 
than directly representative of the investments that wouldve been made instead. We 
recognise that, to some extent, its a broad brush approach. But if we think a 
recommended portfolio isnt suitable it isnt for us to suggest, after the event, an 
alternative portfolio  and in respect of which there could be unending debate  but to 
award redress thats broadly fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
particular case.
Advance Wealth had also referred to its use of preferred model asset allocations and 
analytical tools. I recognised there was a very wide range of information and tools available to financial businesses and advisers to help with, amongst other things, risk 
profiling, fund research and portfolio construction. Different businesses and advisers 
will have different ways of working, including preferred information sources and tried 
and tested tools. For example, different businesses use different risk assessment 
tools in order to try and understand a clients appetite for risk, if any. Different 
numbering systems, definitions and differing classification systems will apply. The 
same is true of any tool that a firm uses to assess the risk level of a particular fund at 
any particular time. But any tool, whatever its purpose, can only offer a partial insight 
and needs to be considered alongside the particular clients needs, objectives and 
objective capacity for loss. It isnt for this service to assess any tool available on the 
market and if, how or when it should be used. In determining a complaint we consider 
the overall evidence, including what the client says about their situation, their ATR 
and what, if anything, they could afford to lose.
In this particular case, for the reasons I set out, I considered the portfolio represented 
more risk than Mr M was prepared to accept. Id looked again at that and it remained 
my view. Id looked in particular at the risk questionnaire that was completed on 30 
November 2021. I noted that some of Mr Ms answers are noted as inconsistent and 
that there was some further discussion. So there was perhaps some room for 
movement. But overall my view remained that Mr M didnt want to take any real risk 
with his capital at the particular time.
The capacity for risk section of the questionnaire indicated that Mr M could afford a 
small loss. And his circumstances appear to support that. He hadnt taken his 
pension at 70 so it seems he had other resources on which he was relying. But, even 
if his position was such that he could afford a small loss, that didnt mean he wanted 
to invest on that basis. 
I also noted that the description of the selected risk profile refers to any falls in value 
as being anticipated as being very small. And returns likely being modest too with 
high inflation reducing spending power. And the fact that the consumer very quickly 
became anxious when losses were indicated would tend to support that he didnt 
want any real risk to his capital.
I noted in my provisional decision that the actual asset allocation in this case wasnt 
in accordance with the target asset allocation set out in the risk profile report. I 
accepted (and leaving aside issues about what Mr M was given to understand hed 
be investing in and in what proportions) that, just because a different asset allocation 
may have prevailed, that doesnt mean it wasnt suitable. But, looking at the Elevate 
target allocation, the risk profile seemed to start from the premise that some degree 
of investment risk is accepted (even for a 2 out of 10 ATR investor which is conflated 
with a 3 out of 10 ATR investor). So there was, in my view, potential for a mismatch 
between the consumers ATR and the recommended asset allocation.
Advance Wealth commented further. Amongst other things, Advance Wealth reiterated that 
the fixed interest market risk/volatility rating had changed between the advice and the 
complaint, due to the 2022 market crash when fixed interest and equities simultaneously 
saw a double digit collapse which wasnt foreseeable. While the outcome had been bad for a 
low risk investor that didnt mean the advice was wrong. 
Again I considered Advance Wealths further comments before responding and saying:  
I understood how strongly Advance Wealth felt about this matter. I noted, and didnt 
doubt, what Advance Wealth had said about working hard to give clients optimal 
advice. But sometimes a consumer will feel the advice given hasnt been in their best 
interests and will complain. Where a complaint is referred to us its likely that one 
party will be disappointed with the outcome.
Advance Wealth had pointed to unprecedented and unforeseen volatility in the fixed interest market and falls in value which had delivered bad outcomes for low risk 
investors. I was of course aware that rises in interest rates since about December 
2021, coupled with inflation, had meant that fixed income securities, particularly 
bonds, had fallen in price. Some investors have seen very significant falls in value on 
investments which may have been regarded by many as virtually risk free. Whether 
that couldve been predicted was perhaps debatable. On the one hand, as base rates 
were at an historic low, fixed interest asset values in the longer term could only have 
gone down, once interest rates began to rise. But I didnt see the foreseeability or 
otherwise of that was the issue here. Or could properly be said to be the cause of 
any losses Mr M had has sustained.
No liability will lie where suitable advice has been given, even if losses result. That 
would be an investment performance complaint which (absent other considerations 
such as suitability, misinformation etc) we wouldnt usually uphold. Here, although 
Advance Wealth maintained that the advice was suitable, I didnt agree. Id explained 
in my provisional decision (and my further comments) why I considered what was 
recommended was too high risk for Mr M. In my view, any losses hed incurred didnt 
flow from market movements but from the fact that the portfolio recommended didnt 
match his very low attitude to risk.
Advance Wealth had said that dealing with a consumer who is prepared to accept a 
very small risk as opposed to no risk might be difficult, especially if any loss might be 
assessed against a no risk benchmark. But my view in this particular case, taking into 
account the risk questionnaire that was completed on 30 November 2021, was that 
Mr M didnt want to take any real risk with his capital at the particular time. So the 
benchmark Id suggested was appropriate.
I noted that, prior to the advice complained of, Mr M had been invested (66%) in a 
government bond based fund. The move to the corporate bond and the increased 
equities element may have been an attempt in good faith to diversify and to try to 
beat rising inflation. But the risk profile report recognised, for a 2 out of 10 investor, 
there was a risk that inflation would reduce the funds spending power. So, 
recommending investments aimed at beating inflation wouldnt be consistent with that 
risk profile and when the consumer was prepared to accept the inflation risk. Again I 
felt that supported the benchmark Id specified. 
Advance Wealth had said that since September 2022 Mr Ms fund had recovered 
somewhat. That will be reflected in the redress which Id said in my provisional 
decision should be calculated as at the date of the final decision. Advance Wealth 
had earlier suggested, having recommended at Mr Ms next annual review in January 
2023 that he came out of the Invesco Corporate Bond Fund, redress should be 
calculated for the period December 2021 to January 2023. But, on the basis the 
complaint relates to the advice as a whole, I didnt agree. 
And, although Id highlighted the Invesco Corporate Bond Fund as a reason why the 
recommended portfolio was unsuitable, I didnt see that Fund was the only issue. 
Advance Wealth maintained that Fund was suitable at the time of the advice and that 
its risk profile only started to increase towards the end of 2022 and had referred to 
the FE Risk Score Chart in support. But I understood that was based largely on 
volatility, relative to the UK leading 100 shares. Volatility isnt necessarily the same 
as risk although high volatility tends to indicate high risk and vice versa.
In response, Advance Wealth referred to, amongst other things, Mr Ms email of 31 October 
2022. Advance Wealth said Mr M was asking to be restored to the peak of his investment 
rather than make up for losses sustained. The value of his plan had peaked on 9 December 
2021 at around £108,000. Its trough was around £86,000 from mid October 2021. If I was 
saying the loss was inappropriate then it would be fair to say the gain was too. Hed started 
with £71,000 in 2006 and he now had about £93,000.Advance Wealth asked me to expand on what Id said with reference to the underlying 
landscape of fixed interest funds in general and in particular my reference as to it being 
debatable as to whether what happened couldve been predicted. Advance Wealth said the 
industry believed at the time that fixed interest funds were a low risk investment. And much 
of the financial commentary was that rapid inflation wouldnt be triggered. Or that any 
inflation would be whats been termed transitory.
Advance Wealth referred again to the asset allocation tools and information sources it uses. 
And queried how it might in future deal with clients who wanted a low risk approach. There 
was also reference to large losses suffered by investors whose pensions were invested with 
large providers in lifestyling programmes which typically involve switching funds into gilts or 
bonds as retirement approaches.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive set out above, Ive had some further exchanges with Advance Wealth since I issued 
my provisional decision which havent been shared with Mr M. No discourtesy to Mr M was 
intended. As what Advance Wealth said didnt change my conclusions, I didnt seek Mr Ms 
comments.  
As to the further points Advance Wealth has raised, I dont have much to add. Although I 
understand Advance Wealths position, I dont think further debate, especially about the 
wider financial economy and, in particular whats happened with fixed interest assets, is 
going to take matters much further forward. 
But to be clear, Im not saying that what happened to the market and fixed interest funds was 
predictable. I said, largely in passing, that the issue was debatable. I take Advance Wealths 
point that, even if it could be foreseen that interest rates would rise to some degree at some 
point, the extent of the inflationary pressures and the speed at which rates rose impacted 
too. My decision isnt based on any suggestion that Advance Wealth shouldve foreseen that 
the climate pertaining to fixed interest funds would change and very rapidly and mean that 
such funds should no longer be regarded as invariably safe, low risk investments. 
I also note here what Advance Wealth has said about the position of some major providers 
whove moved investors into bonds as part of lifestyling programmes. But I dont see thats 
directly relevant here in a complaint about the suitability of advice given. Advance Wealth 
has also referred again to the tools and information sources which it uses. Ive already 
commented on that and I dont have anything further to add. Nor is it for me to suggest how, 
going forwards, Advance Wealth might advise particular clients. I would however point out 
that my conclusions here, including any findings of fact, are specific to the particular 
circumstances of this case and taking the complaint as a whole.  
I dont agree with Advance Wealths suggestion that the overall gains Mr M has made since 
2016 should be taken into account. That approach would mean, in any complaint that 
unsuitable advice had been given and losses had resulted, no redress would be payable if, 
during the period of investment under the particular firms stewardship, thered been an 
overall gain. I dont think that approach would be practical or indeed fair. A consumer may 
have a long and prosperous relationship with a firm but there may come a time when the 
consumer considers that the advice given hasnt been suitable. If we agree and consider that 
losses have arisen in consequence of that particular advice, well award redress based on 
the advice complained of.  As Ive said, if Mr M had been invested in suitable funds, even if he suffered losses, Advance 
Wealth wouldnt be responsible. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the portfolio 
was suitable. Some 34% was invested in equities. And 52% in the Invesco Corporate Bond 
Fund. Ive explained why I consider that was a medium risk fund. Corporate bonds are 
generally riskier than government bonds. In my view, that Fund, coupled with the equity 
element, meant the bulk of Mr Ms pension was invested in what could broadly be regarded 
as medium risk funds. I think that exposed Mr Ms portfolio to more risk than an investor with 
a 2 out of 10 ATR would be prepared to accept. As the portfolio was in my view unsuitable 
then I need to consider how things should be put right for Mr M. 
Our usual approach if we think an investment or portfolio is unsuitable but where we dont 
know exactly how the investor wouldve invested had suitable advice been given, is to say 
that redress should be calculated by reference to a benchmark. Sometimes the choice of 
benchmark may be relatively obvious. But in other cases it may be more nuanced and finely 
balanced. It will depend on the facts and circumstances of the particular case. And, as Ive 
said earlier, using a benchmark is to some extent a broad brush approach. Here I maintain 
the benchmark Ive suggested is broadly suitable and represents fair and reasonable redress 
for an investor who wanted to take very little risk with their money. Ive explained why, based 
on the evidence Ive seen, including the risk questionnaire and Mr Ms own evidence, my 
view is that Mr M didnt want to take any real degree of risk with this pension fund. 
I know Advance Wealth will remain unhappy but I maintain the views I set out in my 
provisional decision. Ive recapped what I said above and it forms part of this decision along 
with the further reasoning I provided in response to Advance Wealths comments and which 
Ive also included above. Im upholding the complaint and awarding redress as below. It will 
be up to Advance Wealth, assuming Mr M accepts my decision, to carry out the calculations 
and liaise direct with Mr M. We dont routinely check a business calculations. Ive said 
Advance Wealth should provide details to Mr M in a clear and simple format so he should be 
able to satisfy himself that the calculation is correct. 
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr M as closely as possible in the position hed probably be in now if hed
been given suitable advice. I think Mr M wouldve invested differently. But I cant say exactly
what hed have done instead. Im satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable,
given Mr Ms circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What must Advance Wealth Limited do?
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value theres a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Add any interest as set out below.
Make a payment into Mr Ms pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Advance Wealth Limited is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension plan, 
it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, 
it wouldve provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC so Mr M wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ms actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume Mr M is 
likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction 
would equal 20%. However, if he wouldve been able to take a tax free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall 
reduction of 15%. 
Pay Mr M £200 for the upset and inconvenience this matter will have caused.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Advance Wealth Limited deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off and 
give Mr M a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear and simple format. 
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Pension fund Still exists Bank of 
England 
average 
return from 
fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investment 
(when asset 
allocation 
recommended 
on 3 
December 
2021 put in 
place)Date of my 
final decision8% simple 
pa from the 
date of my 
final decision 
to date of 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 
days of 
Advance 
Wealth 
received 
notification 
of Mr Ms 
acceptance 
of the final 
decision).
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what the investment wouldve been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value, Advance Wealth Limited should use the
monthly average rate for one-year fixed rate bonds as published by the Bank of England,
The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates
should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually
paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large
number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if those payments are
totalled and that figure deducted at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting
periodically.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Advance Wealth Limited must redress Mr M as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman