DRN-1728955
 
The complaint
Miss S believes Vauxhall Finance Plc (Vauxhall) acted irresponsibly by agreeing a motor 
finance loan shed applied for.
What happened
Miss S purchased a car in February 2016, by way of a conditional sale agreement through 
Vauxhall. She borrowed £10,385 over 36 months, with repayments of £160.45 and a final 
payment of £5,750.
Miss S has complained that Vauxhall didnt act responsibly when approving the loan, 
because she couldnt afford the monthly repayments. Shes also complained that the loan 
agreement was confusing - Vauxhall didnt make her aware of the interest and fees; and that 
Vauxhall didnt assist her when she fell into financial difficulties.
Our investigator thought Vauxhall had acted responsibly. She said Miss S applied for the 
finance in the month her employment ended, so all of the evidence wouldve shown an 
income that was sufficient to support the payments. And the credit check Vauxhall did didnt 
show any arrears or that Miss S was financially overstretched. So she thought Vauxhall had 
carried out reasonable and proportionate check when approving the finance.
The investigator also said that the finance agreement was clear and set out all of the costs 
and payments involved. And she said that Vauxhall set up payment plans, put the account 
on hold and waived charges when Miss S fell into financial difficulties. She thought Vauxhall 
had acted positively and sympathetically, and she didnt think they should do anything more.
Miss S didnt agree with the investigator. Shes said the figures the investigator used were 
incorrect, as Vauxhall paid half of the deposit. She doesnt think Vauxhall carried out 
proportionate checks, because if they had done, they would have found that she wasnt 
working and was receiving Jobseekers Allowance  and she says she told Vauxhall this. So 
shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Vauxhall said that, because of a change in systems, theyre not able to retrieve the checks 
they did when Miss S applied for the finance. But theyve said they wouldve included:
Residential Status (renting, home owner etc.)
Employment and Income
Credit File (for address history, current outgoings and payment history)
Its unfortunate that Vauxhall cant provide this information, but I cant say they definitely 
didnt do proportionate checks just because of this. The checks theyve said they wouldve 
done look to be reasonable. So I need to consider if the information these checks wouldve 
shown mean Vauxhall shouldve done additional checks and/or declined the application. 
When she applied for the finance, Miss S declared she was in employment, and had been 
for just over a year. And she declared she lived at home with her parents. Miss S has also 
said that, at the time she applied for the finance, her only outgoings were a credit card, a 
store card and travel costs.
Miss S has provided a copy of her credit file. This shows that, at the time she applied for the 
finance, she lived where she said she lived. And the only credit she had at the time was an 
overdraft facility on her bank account, her mobile phone contract, and a credit card. The 
payment history for these show they were satisfactorily maintained. The store card Miss S 
said she had shows as being opened in September 2016 - after the finance was taken out.
Miss S has also said that her contract with her employer ended in February 2016, that she 
was in receipt of Jobseekers Allowance, and she told Vauxhall this. While Ive no doubt that, 
to the best of her memory, Miss S believes this is what she told Vauxhall; because what was 
or wasnt said cant be evidenced, I need to rely upon what can be evidenced.
The application Miss S signed doesnt say she was no longer employed at the time she 
made the application. Ive seen her bank statements for the period 30 October 2015 to 26 
February 2016  the three-month period before the finance was taken out and the first month 
afterwards. These show a regular income from Miss Ss declared employer. And they dont 
show any regular outgoings. So theres nothing on these statements that wouldve given 
Vauxhall any concerns that Miss S wasnt employed where she said she was, or about 
whether she could afford the monthly repayments. 
Miss S has provided confirmation that she received Jobseekers Allowance from 2 February 
to 12 April 2016, and again from 23 June 2016 to 17 January 2017. These payments arent 
showing on the bank accounts Miss S has supplied. And, because the loan agreement was 
signed on 5 February 2016  three days after the Jobseekers Allowance claim started  they 
wouldnt have shown on any statements Miss S couldve provided to Vauxhall at the time.
So, based on the evidence Ive seen, theres nothing to show me that any reasonable and 
proportionate checks Vauxhall couldve carried out wouldve given them any cause for 
concern. So, I dont think they did anything wrong by approving the finance.
Ive also seen the finance agreement Miss S signed. This very clearly states the loan 
amount, the term, the repayments, the interest being charged, the total amount that would 
be repaid, and the fees that were being charged. This information wasnt in a print that was 
so small it couldnt be easily read, nor was it hidden so it could be easily missed. It was at 
the start of the agreement under the heading Financial Details. So Miss S wouldve been 
aware of the terms of the loan she was agreeing to, and by signing the agreement she 
accepted those terms. I dont think that the deposit contribution provided by Vauxhall changes this. While the 
deposit hasnt been split between the amount Miss S contributed and the amount Vauxhall 
contributed, it does show the total deposit. Had this been shown as a split deposit or had 
Miss Ss deposit only been shown (with the purchase price being reduced by the amount of 
Vauxhalls contribution), then the loan amount would still have been the same.
So I dont agree that the finance agreement was unclear. And in signing this, its reasonable 
for me to assume that Miss S mustve believed that, given her circumstances, the loan 
payments were affordable and sustainable for the full three-year term.
The transaction history shows that, with the exception of an unpaid direct debit in September 
2016 (which Miss S paid four days later), she maintained all of her repayments until 
December 2016. It wasnt until January 2017, after Miss S had stopped receiving 
Jobseekers Allowance, that she fell into financial difficulties. I agree with the investigator that 
Vauxhall dealt with these difficulties in a positive and sympathetic way  they put the account 
on hold, waived charges and set up repayment arrangements. But the account ended up 
going into default.
I dont think its unreasonable for a financial business to default an account once the arrears 
reach a certain level, and after theyve issued the required default notices (which Vauxhall 
did). So I dont agree that defaulting the account meant Miss S was treated unfairly. And I 
wont be asking Vauxhall to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint about Vauxhall Finance 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman