DRN-4008011
The complaint
Mr W has complained about his commercial motor insurer, The National Farmers' Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU). He thinks it caused delays in handling his claim, 
that it should have given him an opportunity to use a garage of his choosing earlier in the 
process and that he was left without an appropriate vehicle during the claim.
What happened
Mr Ws vehicle, a tipper van, was damaged during an attempted theft on 29 November 2021. 
Mr W made a claim to NFU and its agent collected the van that day and took it to an NFU 
approved repairer. The approved repairer completed an initial estimate but felt the keys were 
needed to properly assess the van for other damage. Mr W provided the keys and on 
21 December 2021 it was determined that a part  a wiring loom  was needed. This was 
ordered but was expected to take six to eight weeks to arrive as it had to be made to order. 
Mr W was unhappy that the keys and initial assessment of damage had not been better 
organised. But he was initially happy to wait for the repair to complete  he did not want the 
van to be declared a total loss and he wasnt given an option, at that stage, for having his 
own repairer complete the work with, for example, salvaged parts.
Unfortunately, after eight weeks had passed, the loom had still not arrived with NFUs 
approved repairer. It was then the end of February 2022 and Mr W raised the idea with NFU 
of using salvaged parts  he was keen to complete the repairs because he was losing work, 
and therefore, income, without his van. During March NFU considered this option. But by 
April it had decided it wasnt viable  although, with the loom still not received, it felt 
something did need to be done to progress the claim. NFU said it would consider paying 
Mr W so he could use a repairer of his choosing to supply and fit the loom, as well as 
completing other work not already completed by its approved repairer. Mr W sourced a 
quote but a dispute then arose about the cost for work. The previously ordered, purpose 
made loom then arrived with NFUs repairer and the work went ahead, completing within a 
week, with the van returned to Mr W about a week after that. 
Mr W complained to NFU about how the claim had been handled, including in respect of how 
prolonged it had become. NFU said it accepted there had been some lack of communication. 
For that it said it would offer £50 compensation. But it said it hadnt caused any 
unreasonable delays, its offer to pay Mr W for repairs had been fair and he hadnt been 
entitled to a courtesy car, or like-for-like vehicle under the policy. Mr W complained to us.
Our Investigator felt NFU had moved the repairs on where it could and had kept Mr W 
informed when it couldnt. He noted the £50 compensation paid by NFU. He didnt think it 
reasonably had to do anything more.
Mr W was unhappy. He asked for the complaint to be considered by an Ombudsman and it 
came to me. I felt that NFU had failed Mr W  and that it needed to pay some compensation 
as well as reimburse some lost income, subject to Mr W showing it proof of the latter. So 
I issued a provisional decision, my findings of which were:
Delay 
I think the repairs progressed reasonably in the first few weeks and the last two weeks or so 
of the claim. I can understand that the subsequent need for keys and further assessment 
were frustrating for Mr W. But I dont think I could reasonably expect the collection agent  
who was not the repairer  to have known that the keys might be needed. And the repairer 
was able to complete an initial assessment even without the keys, completing further 
investigations and ordering parts within days of Mr W providing the keys. So I think that was 
handled reasonably. And when the loom arrived on 26 April 2022, work was completed in 
short order with the van then being returned to Mr W. There was some lack of 
communication at this point. But no real delay. 
The loom was ordered on 21 December 2021 and only arrived for fitting on 26 April 2022. 
Even though Mr W was told on 21 December 2021 that it would take six to eight weeks to 
arrive. Which he was satisfied with. The real sticking point for the claim came at the end of 
that six to eight week period when the loom still hadnt arrived and, at that point, there being 
no expected date for its delivery. 
At that point whilst Mr W put it to NFU that a salvaged part could be used, and NFU 
considered that, NFU hadnt monitored the supply of the part and hadnt any ready ideas for 
progressing the claim without it. Given the nature of the cover, I think that NFU should have 
been live to the idea that any delay beyond the six to eight week period estimated would 
unfairly impact Mr W. As such it should reasonably have taken steps to avoid that 
happening.
As it was it took NFU around a month to consider Mr Ws salvage proposal and decide that 
wasnt something it could agree to. Its fair to say that NFU did then recognise that it should 
be doing something to progress the claim. But it didnt really come up with any workable 
solutions. And I think it consistently overlooked the fact that even if it couldnt progress the 
claim, it could have at least looked to offer some mitigation to Mr W. I accept that NFU 
couldnt control the supply of the loom  but I dont think it was fair for it to let all of the 
impact of that extended delay fall on Mr W.
I think that, as of the end of February 2022, with the part outstanding as it was, NFU should 
have acted immediately to resolve the claim, or at least limit the impact on Mr W. Even if that 
meant it looking outside of the standard policy cover to do so. For example, I  think it could 
reasonably have offered to settle the claim by paying Mr W so his garage could do the work, 
whilst offering to place him into a suitable like-for-like vehicle for a reasonable period to allow 
that settlement to be determined and agreed. 
As such, I think its fair and reasonable for me to say that NFU should consider what income 
Mr W lost during the period 1 March to 26 April 2022, and make a payment to him, plus 8% 
interest* applied on any income Mr W should have received but didnt, from the date it 
should have been attained until settlement is made. Mr W will have to cooperate with NFUs 
assessment in this respect by providing it any relevant details it asks for. 
Lack of Communication
From my review I think its fair to say that the main failure to communicate with Mr W came 
when the work on his van was meant to be completed. He was told on 29 April that the work 
would likely complete later that week  but hed be updated if that wasnt the case. But the 
van was not returned to Mr W at the end of that week, and nor did NFUs agent arranging 
the repairs call Mr W to update him. Mr W has explained that he had booked work for the 
following week, finally expecting to have the van back, only to have to cancel it. If Mr W can 
show NFU he lost income that week, it should reimburse that to him. But Mr W has also explained that his having to cancel the job made him look bad, professionally speaking. I can 
understand that. I think NFU should pay Mr W £100 compensation for that. 
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
I think Mr W was caused quite a lot of distress and inconvenience as a result of both NFUs 
failure to manage the claim and prolonged delay, as well as its lack of communication. But 
Im mindful that the period of upset for Mr W, on account of these failures, was only relatively 
short. Two months in respect of NFU failing to avoid the impact on Mr W of prolonged delays 
and a week or so due to the lack of communication. In the circumstances, I think its fair and 
reasonable to say that NFU should pay Mr W a total of £250 compensation. I know NFU sent 
Mr W a cheque previously for £50  but also that Mr W did not cash it. If Mr W has not had 
the benefit of £50 from NFU already, and if my final decision remains the same with Mr W 
accepting it, NFU will have to pay the total award.
NFU said it accepted my provisional decision. Mr W said he had previously provided 
evidence of his income (from before and after the incident that lead to the claim). He said 
£100 compensation did not truly reflect the on-going impact of this situation on his business. 
Mr W asked that NFU be made to cover the cost of his vehicle tax. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not sure if Mr W has provided income details to NFU before, and if he has if that is 
sufficient for it to calculate settlement of my award. If Mr W accepts my final decision, NFU 
can let him know if it needs more detail to be provided.
I appreciate that Mr W feels he may have lost customers, and that is unfortunate. But there 
are many reasons why a customer may not return. I accept however, that when Mr W had to 
cancel jobs at short notice in May 2022, and only because of NFUs lack of communication, 
that made him look bad, like he was unreliable. But I dont think this, by itself, was likely 
something that would do lasting damage to Mr Ws reputation. Not least as he could have 
explained that the cancellation was on account of a problem beyond his control and he had 
the van back shortly thereafter, meaning he could have rearranged the work. Im satisfied 
that, in the circumstances, £100 is fair and reasonable compensation. 
I know Mr W did not have use of his van for an extended period. Hes said he could not 
declare it off-road with the DVLA during that time as he did not know when he might get it 
back. I appreciate that it was frustrating for Mr W to have this cost outgoing for a van he 
could not use. But as the owner of the vehicle it was up to him to make sure it was taxed 
properly and declaring a vehicle off the road, as well as reinstating it on the road can 
usually be done quickly on-line and takes immediate effect. Im not persuaded its fair or 
reasonable for me to make an award against NFU in this respect. 
Having noted NFUs acceptance of my provisional decision, and reviewed Mr Ws comments 
made in reply, I remain satisfied by what I said provisionally. As such, my provisional 
findings, along with those above, are now the findings of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
I require NFU to:
 Assess what income Mr W lost between 1 March 2022 and 26 April 2022 and reimburse 
him, plus interest* from the date the income amount determined should have been 
attained until settlement is made. Mr W will likely have to assist NFU in its assessment 
by providing detail of previous income to it and he should do so in a timely manner.
Reimburse Mr W for work lost in the second week of May 2022, subject to Mr W 
providing evidence to it of this loss. Mr W should provide that in a timely manner and 
NFU should add interest* to any payment made to Mr W, applied from the date the 
income should have been received but wasnt and until settlement is made.
Pay Mr W £100 compensation for loss of reputation.
Pay Mr W £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused to him by its 
failures. Unless Mr W has received £50 from it before, in which case, only £200 will now 
need to be paid.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires NFU to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited to provide the redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman