DRN-1662109
 
Complaint
Mrs E complains that Bradford & Bingley plc (Bradford & Bingley) mis-sold her a monthly 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mrs E took out a mortgage with Bradford & Bingley in 1998. She was sold a PPI policy at the 
same time in connection with this mortgage.  The PPI would have provided a monthly benefit 
for up to 12 months if Mrs E was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Es complaint should be upheld. Mrs E didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Es case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint. I appreciate Mrs E will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I will go on to explain why Ive reached this decision.
First of all Ive considered whether Mrs E was eligible under the policy. Based on Mrs Es 
age, employment at residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied that she was eligible for 
the policy at the time of the sale.
Bradford & Bingley had to make it clear to Mrs E that the PPI was optional and needed her 
consent before it could be applied to Mrs Es account. Mrs E says that she was never told 
that the PPI was optional.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale so Ive thought about everything Mrs E 
and Bradford & Bingley have told us and looked to the available documents to help me 
decide what is more likely to have happened during the sale.
Bradford & Bingley have provided us with a copy of the mortgage application form. The 
mortgage application form had a section headed Payment Protection Insurance. 
Immediately beneath this were three equally clear options including the option not to take 
PPI. However, the option to take full PPI cover has been selected. The amount of cover has 
also been selected in this section. It appears to me that if PPI had not specifically been 
chosen then it wouldnt have been added to the account. And Mrs E signed this application 
form.
I note what Mrs E has said about not completing the form and relying on the firm undertaking 
the application on her behalf. However, the evidence Ive seen shows that PPI was presented as optional. There was no obligation on Mrs E to take PPI and the onus would 
have been on Mrs E to check what she had agreed to on the mortgage application form 
when she signed it. And given that the section was headed Payment Protection Insurance, 
I think it should have been clear that Mrs E was agreeing to take out PPI. The section not 
only showed that she had selected PPI but also the level of cover and benefit so I think its 
more likely that there was some discussion about PPI. 
I appreciate that the mortgage offer showed the PPI amount as £0.00. However, this is 
because the PPI was free for the first six months and not because it hadnt been added to 
the account at the outset.
So having taken everything into consideration, while I appreciate what Mrs E has told us, I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude that its more likely Bradford & Bingley didnt 
present the policy as optional or that it was added to her account without her consent. 
Bradford & Bingley say they didnt advise Mrs E to take PPI. While I consider there to have 
been some discussion around PPI given what has been entered on the PPI section of the 
PPI form, I havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude that Bradford & Bingley advised Mrs 
E to take PPI. This means they didnt have to take steps to check that the PPI was suitable 
for Mrs E. So, for example, they didnt need to take into account Mrs Es existing repayment 
provisions or what she has told us about being able to take a lodger or moving back in to her 
parents home while renting hers out if she couldnt work. Nor did Bradford & Bingley have to 
advise her as to what level of benefit she should select.
However, Bradford & Bingley still had to give Mrs E clear information about the PPI  in 
particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions in the policy  so that she could 
make an informed decision about whether or not to take it out. Its possible the information 
Bradford & Bingley gave Mrs E wasnt as clear as it should have been but this in itself 
doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information would have meant that Mrs E wouldnt have taken the policy out. And I dont 
think better information would have changed her mind about the policy. I say this because:
 
The PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months if Mrs E was off work sick. This 
would have been in addition to any sick pay she would have been entitled to and 
potentially for a much longer period of time (as Mrs E can only recall she would have 
received statutory sick pay). It would also have paid in the same way if she lost her 
job. I note what Mrs E says about the level of benefit. The PPI was protecting a 
valuable asset and although it doesnt appear to have covered the full mortgage 
repayment, it would still have paid towards it. And in any event, the amount of benefit 
was set out clearly in the application form and as already mentioned, it wasnt for 
Bradford & Bingley to advise her in relation to what level of benefit most suited her 
circumstances.
 
Mrs E didnt appear to have been affected by the main restrictions/exclusions in the 
policy which would have made it difficult to make a successful claim under the policy.
 
I havent seen any evidence that would suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs E.
 
Mrs E could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially.
 So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Bradford & Bingley mis-sold   Mrs 
E this PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint against Bradford & Bingley plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman