DRN-2346047
The complaint
 Miss M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly reported a default on her account and 
that this affected some lending applications she later made. Miss M is also unhappy with the 
customer service received from HSBC.
What happened
 In 2020 Miss M made some credit applications to HSBC. It later came to light that that 
HSBC had been reporting a default on an account Miss M held with them for a number of 
years.
HSBC apologised and said that the account theyd reported the default on had been due to 
close in 2015 as theyd written off the outstanding balance as a charitable write-off. 
However, the account had then been reinstated as part of a complaint resolution - as Miss M 
was unhappy with the closure. HSBC reported a default to the credit reference agencies until 
it came to light in 2020. 
Miss M complained to HSBC about the recording of the default and the customer service 
received. She felt that the declined applications shed made had been caused by the default 
appearing on her credit file. HSBC paid Miss M £300 for any inconvenience caused. HSBC 
also advised Miss M that the best course of action was to close the account and then open a 
new one. Miss M was later contacted and told shed need to go into branch to arrange this - 
but she was unhappy about having to do this due to her health circumstances. Miss M says 
this whole experience has negatively affected her health and as a result she was unable to 
complete training for a new job which resulted in her losing it. 
Miss M referred her complaint to our service for an independent review. Our investigator 
partially upheld the complaint. He found that the default shouldnt have been reported as 
HSBC had agreed to a charitable write off. He recommended that HSBC cease reporting the 
default and remove any negative information related to the default. But he didnt recommend 
that HSBC needed to compensate Miss M any further for her experience or declined credit 
applications. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have to tell Miss M that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont fully uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Its clear to me from HSBCs records that theyd agreed to write off the £159.01 that Miss M 
owed. I consider this to have been a fair and positive step by HSBC. But its not entirely clear 
what the HSBCs internal process was, or what went wrong that lead to the default then 
being reported after the decision was made to keep Miss Ms account open. 
I dont think it was HSBCs intention to record a default and they now accept that this was an 
error. I say this because they told Miss M theyd be writing off the debt in 2015. I cant see 
that HSBC ever let Miss M know that a default was going to, or later had been recorded, until 
she raised it with them in 2020. As HSBC registered the default by error, they should now 
ensure (if they havent already done so) that they no longer report the account as defaulted 
to the credit reference agencies.
Ive then gone on to consider what impact HSBCs actions have had on Miss M. Ive kept in 
mind  based on what Miss M has told us, that the default doesnt seem to have caused her 
any issues until around March 2020 when she applied for credit with HSBC. 
As our investigator has pointed out, a customers credit report is only one of the factors a 
lender will consider. For example, the customers income and expenditure is usually 
important. 
Miss M has provided us with extracts from her credit report and Ive noted theres other data 
on there  aside from the default, that may have also affected HSBCs decision. I cant say 
that the default was the sole reason why HSBC declined Miss Ms applications - so I wont 
be directing them to reconsider the declined applications now. However, if the default 
information has now been removed, Miss M has the option to make a credit application 
again, without the incorrectly reported default information on her credit file.
Although Miss M has referred to the impact this whole experience had on her  for example  
not being able to complete training for a new job or buy a new boiler, I havent seen strong 
supporting evidence that HSBCs error recording the default has solely caused, and is 
responsible for, the trouble and upset Miss M has described. I think that the £300 HSBC paid 
to Miss M is fair, reasonable and proportionate as an acknowledgement of their mistake in 
reporting the default and the impact on Miss M.
Miss M is also unhappy that after the default came to light, HSBC advised her to close the 
account in question and open a new account over the phone. Miss M says she was later told 
she needed to go into branch in order for this to happen. But as she was being cautious with 
the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and her health circumstances, she didnt want to. 
I recognise that this will have been frustrating for Miss M. But Ive also kept in mind that 
when Miss M expressed her unhappiness at having to go into branch, HSBC emailed her on 
4 June 2020, apologised and let Miss M know that theyd be opening the account over the 
phone. A reply from Miss M on the same date confirmed shed put the account opening on 
hold pending our services involvement. So I cant say that HSBC treated her unfairly here.
Whilst understandably frustrating that she may have been given mixed messages from 
HSBC, I dont think the customer service received here is poor to the extent that HSBC 
should pay further compensation to Miss M.
I know Miss M may be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end 
what we  in trying to informally resolve her dispute with HSBC  can do for her.
 
Putting things right
 HSBC UK Bank Plc should, if they havent already done so, ensure they no longer report 
the account as defaulted to the credit reference agencies and remove any negative 
information related to it. My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I partially uphold Miss Ms complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc 
should follow my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman