DRN-2229292
The complaint
Miss C and Mr M complain that Revell Turner & Wass Limited (RTW) provided unsuitable 
mortgage advice to them, because of the level of building survey it suggested they were 
likely to need.
What happened
Miss C and Mr M bought a property. They financed this with a mortgage from a lender, and 
before buying the property instructed a survey of it, via the lender. RTW provided them with 
mortgage advice, in August 2018, when they took out their mortgage.
Several months after purchasing the property, Miss C and Mr M noticed issues with the roof. 
They have said they had this investigated by third party experts who said there were defects 
that were likely present before theyd purchased the property.
Miss C and Mr M then complained to RTW in November 2019 about the advice theyd been 
given. They said that theyd been advised by RTW they should only require a Homebuyers 
report before they bought the house, which was offered by their chosen lender. They feel 
they shouldve been advised by RTW to get a full structural survey. So, they felt the advice 
given was unsuitable.
RTW said that it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It explained that it had given no 
advice relating to the condition of the property and said it wasnt responsible for the contents 
of the survey itself. RTW said that the lender theyd recommended to Miss C and Mr M had 
offered two different types of valuation  a basic valuation, for the lenders purposes only, 
and a survey and valuation (also known as a Homebuyers report). As no concerns had been 
expressed about the property, RTW said it hadnt been wrong to suggest the Homebuyers 
report, arranged via the lender, as opposed to an independent full structural survey, was 
likely to be sufficient. It said Miss C and Mr M could still have obtained a full structural 
survey, in addition to the lenders survey, had they wanted to. 
Unhappy with this response Miss C and Mr M asked our service to look into the complaint. 
They said they still felt RTW had provided incorrect advice by not recommending a full 
structural survey or a different mortgage lender which offered full structural surveys.
One of our investigators looked at whatd happened. She noted that the survey carried out 
set out its scope. But Miss C and Mr M didnt raise any concerns with RTW that they had 
been misled about this or that they needed a more in-depth survey  even when that survey 
did report some issues with the roof of the property. She noted Miss C and Mr M didnt 
instruct any further analysis of the property at that time, before buying it. And ultimately the 
decision around the level of survey to undertake was theirs to make. So overall, she felt 
RTW had acted fairly and reasonably in relation to the information it had provided about the 
surveys available. 
Miss C and Mr M did not agree with our investigators opinion. They said they relied on the 
advice of RTW about what level of survey to instruct and they were mis-led about the extent 
of a Homebuyers report. They also feel it dismissed the need for a full structural survey 
without considering the property being bought. Miss C and Mr M also said they hadnt 
questioned this further at the time because of the content of the report not giving cause for 
concern.
The investigators opinion was unchanged. So as Miss C and Mr M did not agree with their 
findings, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C and Mr M have said during their complaint that they think the property was mis-sold 
to them because of the issues that have been discovered since they bought it. But RTW was 
not responsible for selling the property. The estate agent and ultimately the vendor sold the 
property to Miss C and Mr M. RTWs role here was that of a mortgage broker - to provide 
advice in relation to Miss C and Mr Ms mortgage needs. 
It wasnt RTWs role to recommend a particular property to them  and I havent seen any 
evidence that it did. Similarly, it wasnt RTWs role to assess the structural integrity of the 
property  it is not an expert in this field. This was the responsibility of the party that carried 
out the survey. And RTW isnt responsible for that parties actions.
I can see from the information provided that RTW assessed Miss C and Mr Ms financial 
situation and what they could afford to repay and their preferences around financing  such 
as having certainty in relation to repayments through a fixed rate of interest. Having done 
this it recommended a mortgage with a particular lender that it felt best suited those needs  
which is what I wouldve expected it to do in carrying out its role.
Miss C and Mr M say they think this advice was unsuitable. Theyve said they think this 
because the mortgage lender did not offer full structural surveys as part of the application 
process. But I dont think this makes the recommendation of a particular lender unsuitable as 
this could still have been instructed independently. And I dont think this affected whether the 
recommended mortgage met their financial needs and requirements.
Miss C and Mr M have also said the advice was unsuitable because a more in-depth survey 
was not recommended  so their needs in regard to the level of survey undertaken were not 
met. But this wasnt a mortgage related matter. This was to do with the property and whether 
there were any issues with it  something again, RTW was not advising on.
Both parties agree that there was a discussion around a survey of the property at the time of 
the mortgage advice being given. Miss C and Mr M say they were misled by RTW about the 
depth to which a Homebuyers report, which they ultimately decided to instruct via the 
lender, would assess the property. And they say that RTW dismissed the more in depth full 
structural survey as unnecessary, without considering the property they were buying. RTW 
has acknowledged that it didnt feel a full structural survey was necessarily needed.
RTW was not selling or responsible for the condition of the property. So, it had no knowledge 
of this. Any information it gave around surveys was based on the basic information about 
the property provided to it. And I dont think it was required, as part of the mortgage advice it 
was giving, to independently review details of the property and then recommend a particular 
survey. It was required to give advice in relation to Miss C and Mr M and their financial 
situation.I cant know exactly what was discussed during the meeting about the mortgage. But the fact 
that Miss C and Mr M have said RTW indicated it didnt think a full structural report was 
necessary does suggest it was mentioned and they were aware it was an option. And I do 
note that the survey eventually carried out, the Homebuyers report instructed via the lender, 
sets out its scope, in my view, quite clearly. If Miss C and Mr M felt this wasnt in line with 
their expectations, they couldve taken further action at that time, before buying the property.
And while RTW is not responsible for the contents of the report, and Im not intending to go 
into this in detail, I do note the report highlights issues needing maintenance, including the 
roof. While the report indicates action was not urgent, if Miss C and Mr M were concerned 
with either the scope or the content of the report, they couldve instructed a further survey 
themselves. Theyve said they had limited knowledge of these matters. But I also think they 
couldve raised any concerns with RTW, or indeed the estate agent, surveyor or 
conveyancer involved, and taken further advice as necessary.
Ultimately RTW had basic information about the age and construction of the property. Based 
on this and its experience, it says it told Miss C and Mr M that it thought a Homebuyers 
report would carry out the desired level of assessment. I dont think this was unreasonable. 
And the decision on what level of survey to instruct was ultimately Miss C and Mr Ms  and 
they couldve taken additional advice from other parties, such as an independent surveyor or 
their conveyancer, in making this decision.
So overall, I dont think the information RTW gave in relation to the survey made the 
mortgage advice it provided unsuitable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman