DRN-3475488
The complaint
Mr K has complained that his motor insurer, Advantage Insurance Company Limited, 
(Advantage) delayed providing him with a courtesy car after his own car was damaged in an 
accident. 
All references to Advantage include its agents. 
What happened
Mr K was involved in an accident in February 2021 where his car was damaged and needed 
repair. He notified Advantage who arranged for one of its approved repairers to carry out the 
repairs.
Mr K said that his motor insurance policy entitled him to a courtesy car if he agreed to use 
one of Advantages approved repairers but it took 15 days for Advantage to provide one. He 
said this was frustrating and inconvenient for him especially as he had to cancel 
pre-arranged medical appointments that he had over that period. He also said he had to 
chase Advantage a number of times before he was provided with any updates. 
Mr K complained to Advantage saying he shouldnt have to pay his £850 excess due to the 
poor service he had received. Advantage apologised for the delay but didnt agree to waive 
the excess or to provide any compensation. It said the reason for the delay was because 
there was a national shortage of courtesy cars at the time which was out of its control. 
Mr K wasnt happy with Advantages response and complained to us. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint and said Advantage should pay Mr K £150 compensation for the delay 
in providing the courtesy car and the distress and inconvenience it caused him. 
Advantage didnt agree. It said Mr K was only entitled to a courtesy car while his car was 
being repaired and that the courtesy car was provided to Mr K two days after the repairs 
started. It also said it hadnt seen any evidence Mr K had to miss any medical appointments.
Mr K didnt agree with the compensation proposed by our investigator and said that if he had 
hired a car over those 15 days this would have cost him around £450. He said he also 
wasnt happy he had to continue to pay his insurance premium whilst driving a car which 
was much smaller and less powerful than his own.
Our investigator didnt change his view and in response to Mr Ks comments he said that 
Mr K wasnt entitled to a like for like replacement car under his policy.
As neither party agreed with our investigators view, this complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold it.
Mr Ks policy says that Advantage will provide him with a replacement car if he chooses to 
use its nominated repairer service. It also says that the courtesy car will be provided while 
Mr Ks car is being repaired. It adds that the replacement car will usually be a group A 
vehicle, normally a small hatchback and, therefore, not a like for like replacement for Mr Ks 
car which is larger. 
From what I understand, around 15 days elapsed from the date of the accident to the date 
Mr K was provided with the courtesy car. I also understand that the car arrived at the garage 
for repairs six days after the accident (which included the weekend), an estimate was done 
12 days after the accident and the repairs started shortly thereafter. 
Mr K says he should have been provided with a courtesy car straightaway. Advantage now 
says he should have been provided with one while the car was being repaired and therefore 
the delay was only two days and not 15. 
As I said above, under the policy Mr K was entitled to a courtesy car while his car was being 
repaired. Advantage says this means during the period when the garage was working on the 
car. But I dont think its fair or reasonable for the policy to be interpreted in that way because 
Mr K was clearly without his car for a longer period, through no fault of his own. I think its 
fair and reasonable to say that Mr K would expect to be provided with a courtesy car while 
the car was at the garage and therefore in for repairs even if the mechanics werent 
actively working on it. I say this because I dont think it would be fair for Mr K to be penalised 
for any delays in the garage starting the repairs while the car was in their possession.
Also, the reason Advantage gave to Mr K at the time, for not providing him with a courtesy 
car earlier, was because there apparently was a national shortage and not because he 
wasnt entitled to one until the repairs started.
For these reasons I think its fair and reasonable in these circumstances to say that Mr K 
was entitled to a courtesy car from when the car went into the garage for repairs i.e. for 
roughly ten days.
I agree with our investigator that £150 is a reasonable amount of compensation for the time 
Mr K was without a car and also for the distress and inconvenience Advantage caused him. 
Advantage says there is no evidence of Mr K missing any medical appointments. As our 
investigator said we see no reason to doubt what Mr K said but even if that wasnt the case, 
from what Ive seen there were some delays which would have caused him some distress 
and inconvenience in any event. From what Ive seen, it was Mr K who had to chase 
Advantage for updates, especially at the start. 
I note Advantages argument about the shortage of courtesy cars at the time but this 
wouldnt prevent it from keeping Mr K updated. Also the provision of a courtesy car is 
something Mr K is entitled to under the policy and if Advantage isnt able to provide this, 
even if its not within its control, I think it should provide him with compensation for the loss of 
use of his car instead.
Mr K said that if he had hired his own car it would have cost him a lot more. That may be the 
case but the fact is that Mr K didnt hire another car and so I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Advantage to compensate him for an expense he didnt incur. I also dont 
think Advantage has to waive the excess or refund any premiums as Mr K has had the 
benefit of his policy and has been able to make a successful claim for repairs. I understand that Mr K is also unhappy with the time it is now taking for the repairs to be 
completed. As our investigator said, as this wasnt part of his original complaint, its 
something Mr K now has to raise with Advantage and then with us if he is unhappy with its 
response. 
Putting things right
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited should pay Mr K £150 for the loss of use of his car and the distress and 
inconvenience it caused him.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to do what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman