DRN-3991765
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with the compensation Moneybarn No.1 Limited have offered, after 
accepting rejection of a car she was supplied with under a conditional sale agreement.
What happened
agreement with Moneybarn. Miss W paid an advance payment of £315 and the agreement 
was for £6,995 over 60 months, with monthly repayments of £213.02. At the time, the car 
was almost seven years old and had done 67,523 miles. 
The following day Miss W experienced problems with the car misfiring. After contacting the 
supplying dealer (who was located some miles away), Miss W took the car to a local garage 
who identified problems with the catalytic convertor and vacuum pump. The dealership didnt 
accept the garages quote for the repairs and referred Miss W to a second garage. Who 
wouldnt fit the replacement parts the dealership sent them. So, on 4 April 2022, Miss W 
complained to Moneybarn.
Moneybarn investigated the issues, obtained an independent engineers report on the car, 
and, on 11 July 2022, provided their final complaint response. In this, they agreed the car 
supplied to Miss W wasnt of a satisfactory quality and could be rejected. They refunded the 
payments made under the agreement, as well as paying Miss Ws insurance costs, the costs 
of the first garages attempts to repair the car, and £150 compensation for any distress and 
inconvenience shed been caused. However, they didnt agree to refund the costs of Miss W 
hiring a car while this matter was resolved.
Miss W wasnt happy with this response. She said she needed a car for her day-to-day 
transportation while Moneybarn were considering matters. So, between 12 April and 11 July 
2022, she hired a car at a cost of £4,095. And she brought her complaint to us for 
investigation. 
Our investigator said that, while he appreciated Miss W needed to remain mobile, hed not 
seen anything to show that Moneybarn had agreed to Miss W hiring a car and/or covering 
the costs of renting a car for this period. And, because of this, he didnt think it was fair or 
reasonable to ask Moneybarn to cover the rental costs.
Miss W didnt agree with the investigator. She said that Moneybarn should at least 
contribute something due to the length of time they took to deal with this. She said that 
Moneybarn took longer than the 56-days allowed to deal with her complaint about the quality 
of the car, and she had no other option but to hire a car. And she didnt think the investigator 
had considered how shed been impacted which breaches my statutory rights under the 
consumer rights act.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 January 2023, where I explained my intention to uphold 
the complaint. In that decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss W was supplied with a vehicle under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. Miss W has commented on Moneybarns complaint 
handling, how long that process took, and how the delays made her feel. But complaint 
handling is an unregulated activity, and so falls outside of my jurisdiction. This means Im 
unable to consider, or comment upon, the way Moneybarn handled Miss Ws complaint or 
how long it took. And it also means any upset or inconvenience Miss W suffered during the 
complaint process cant be considered when I think about what a fair offer of compensation 
should be.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Moneybarn are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Moneybarn can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Miss W to show it was present when 
the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss W took possession of it, and this made the car 
not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right.
From what Ive seen, its not disputed that there was a fault with the car supplied to Miss W, 
or that this fault made the car of an unsatisfactory quality. So, Id expect Moneybarn to do 
something to put things right.
Id expect Moneybarn to collect the car and end the agreement; to refund any payments 
Miss W paid (less any deduction for fair usage); and to cover any other costs Miss W 
incurred i.e. repair costs. And Ive seen they did this. Moneybarn also paid Miss W £150 for 
the distress and inconvenience shed suffered.
However, Miss W also thinks Moneybarn shouldve covered her hire car costs. Ive seen 
that, when Miss W raised her complaint with Moneybarn, she explained why she needed 
transportation for both her family and her job. And I dont doubt that was the case. 
Had there not been an issue with the car, Miss W wouldve had transportation and the costs 
associated with this  the payments to Moneybarn and her insurance premiums. And, as 
Miss W didnt have transportation, Moneybarn have refunded these transport costs. As such, 
if Moneybarn were to also refund Miss W the cost of the hire car then she essentially has 
received double recovery  her original and alternate transport costs wouldve been paid by 
Moneybarn, and Miss W wouldve been able to travel for free. And I dont think this is fair.However, because Miss W was supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality, I do 
think Moneybarn had an obligation to keep her mobile. Ive seen that, in an email to Miss W 
on 4 July 2022, Moneybarn confirmed that our car hire policy is to contribute £170 per 
week, based on a quotation and a receipt, every week. 
But, in a further email on 12 July 2022, Moneybarn said the matter of the hire car was not 
discussed with us at any stage and the first [we were] made aware that you had hired a car 
was in the email from you on 14 June 2022  neither the dealership, your broker nor 
Moneybarn are obliged to provide a courtesy vehicle or a hire car  we would have 
requested a formal quotation before entering any such arrangement, and it is unreasonable 
to expect we would settle an amount of which we were not made aware.  Given this, 
Moneybarn said having considered the facts, we are not in a position to reimburse that 
expense. 
As I think that Moneybarn were obliged to keep Miss W mobile, and as theyve confirmed 
they would usually contribute £170 a week towards hire car costs, then I think that 
Moneybarn should pay towards the hire car. But, for the reasons already given, I also need 
to consider that Miss W shouldnt be paid twice for the same thing  her transport costs.
Miss W hired a car for 13-weeks - 12 April to 11 July 2022  which is roughly a month after 
she first had problems with the car to the day Moneybarn agreed rejection in writing. I dont 
think this is an unreasonable period of hire. And, at Moneybarns rate of £170 a week, this 
means they would normally contribute £2,210 towards Miss Ws transport costs. However, 
Ive seen theyve already paid Miss W £844.80 towards these costs. As such, I think it would 
be reasonable for Moneybarn to now pay Miss W the difference between these two figures - 
£1,365.10.
For the reasons explained, I intend to uphold Miss Ws complaint, and ask Moneybarn No.1 
Limited to pay her an additional £1,365.10 towards her transport costs.
Responses
Miss W has accepted my provisional view. However, Moneybarn have chosen not to 
comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has objected to my provisional view. And I havent been provided with any 
further evidence by either party. Given this, I see no compelling reason why I shouldnt now 
adopt my provisional view as my final decision.
Putting things right
Given the above, Moneybarn should pay Miss W an additional £1,365.10 towards her 
transport costs.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Ws complaint and Moneybarn No.1 Limited 
should follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman