DRN-3793463
The complaint
The trustees (represented by T, a financial adviser) are complaining about the way Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited encashed investments to pay for regular withdrawals and 
ongoing adviser charges. 
What happened
In 2017, the settlor established three trusts. Each held an investment bond invested with 
Aviva. The trustees initially instructed Aviva to invest all of the money in an Aviva deposit 
fund  so all withdrawals and charges were taken from this fund. During 2018, they 
instructed three switches into different funds. But each switch left a significant proportion of 
the total investment in the Aviva deposit fund. When the switches were made, Aviva 
adjusted the fees and withdrawals so they were deducted proportionately across all of the 
funds. 
T says Aviva shouldnt have adjusted where the fees would be taken from  he says its 
usual commercial practice to deduct fees from a deposit fund where theres one available. 
And he said Aviva had acted against their terms and conditions in doing so. He complained 
to Aviva but wasnt happy with their response, so brought the complaint to our service. In 
doing so, hes also complained about how Aviva handled the trustees complaint and the 
time taken to do so.
Avivas position is that the documents are clear on how withdrawals and charges would be 
taken and that it was the financial advisers responsibility to ensure charges were being 
taken from the correct funds following a fund switch.
Our investigator said we couldnt look into Ts concerns about how Aviva had handled the 
complaint. And he said Aviva had acted in line with their terms and conditions so he couldnt 
say theyd done anything wrong. T remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate itll be disappointing for the trustees, Im not upholding this complaint. 
T hasnt raised the complaint handling aspect again since our investigator said we couldnt 
look into it  so I dont intend to comment on that. In relation to the crux of the complaint, I 
appreciate that Ts frustrated that Aviva havent taken the usual commercial approach to 
withdrawals and ongoing adviser fees, but I think the documentation, while ambiguous at 
times, is clear enough that the trustees should have checked what was happening with the 
withdrawals. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions for the policy make it clear that ongoing adviser charges will be 
deducted for a policy in the same way as regular withdrawals (section 14). They also say 
that at the time a policyholder asks for regular withdrawals they can ask to select whether 
units are cancelled on a fund basis or a pro-rata basis (section 19). Its clear from the 
application form that the trustees selected a fund-specific basis  and they specified the 
Aviva deposit fund, which at the time was the only fund in which the policy was invested.
The section of the application form where the fund-specific basis was selected states: Fund-
specific  this means we withdraw specified amounts from specified funds only. Remember, 
if you change funds later on youll need to review your fund-specific withdrawals, to make 
sure they continue to work for you.
In addition, the Ongoing Adviser Charges agreement says: if you choose to pay Ongoing 
Adviser Charges from selected funds only, you may need to review this in the future, 
particularly if you make fund changes.
Finally, the form that was completed for each fund switch says: If you are taking fund 
specific ongoing adviser charges, and you choose to switch out of a fund from which the 
charges are taken, you need to let us know which funds you would like your charges to now 
be taken from. If we don't hear from you, following the switch we'll start to take your ongoing 
adviser charges proportionally across all funds.
I appreciate T has questioned this final extract and said that a switch out of a fund ought to 
refer only to a full switch and not a partial switch. I have some sympathy with this  the 
wording could be clearer. But I think a switch out of a fund could as easily be a partial switch 
as a full switch. And, each of the extracts included above warns that a change in funds might 
prompt a change in the funds from which withdrawals and charges are taken -the first extract 
specifically says youll need to review your fund-specific withdrawals.
I can understand Ts position that the trustees wanted withdrawals to continue to be made 
out of the deposit fund. But, from everything Ive seen, it seems Aviva have followed their 
usual process in this instance  and theyve warned the trustees more than once that they 
should review their withdrawals alongside any switch in funds. I cant say theyve acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding the trustees complaint about Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T, T and T to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman