DRN-2762693
The complaint
A complains that First Payment Merchant Services Limited (First Payment) charged for two 
payment terminals when A had only agreed to one.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint First Payment, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I think its most likely that the second agreement was for a replacement rather than an 
additional payment terminal. I say that because:
the second agreement says REPLACING:ADDITIONAL and thats confusing. But 
the email address on the contract is for upgrades@firstpayments.. So Im 
persuaded this was being processed as an upgrade and not an additional terminal;
I think if A had wanted an additional terminal they would have been keen to use it. 
But A have explained that since they received the new mobile terminal they havent 
used the old fixed one;
A have explained that their premises are small, and I dont think theres sufficient 
evidence to suggest they would have a need for two terminals. I think this supports 
As argument that the new terminal was a replacement and not an additional 
requirement;
A complained about the additional costs in October 2019 and I dont think thats an 
unreasonable delay. The new agreement was first charged in August 2019 so it 
would not have been appearing on As bank statements for very long at all. 
Putting things right
First Payment should refund any payments made towards the fixed payment terminal 
agreement since the inception of the new agreement. They should add interest to that refund 
as A have been deprived of the money.
They should remove the fixed terminal at no cost to A.
A has been inconvenienced by these issues. Theyve had to escalate their concerns to this 
service when I think the matter could have been resolved earlier and, in the circumstances, I 
think the business should pay them £150 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell First Payment Merchant 
Services Limited to:
refund any payments A has made to the fixed terminal agreement since the new 
mobile terminal agreement started. They should add 8% simple interest per year to 
that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay A £150 to compensate them for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman