DRN-4161105
The complaint
Mr P says that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (who were Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc), who Ill
refer to as Mitsubishi, unfairly declined his claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the
CCA) in relation to a timeshare he was sold.
Mr P has been represented by a professional representative who Ill refer to as PR. Where
I refer to Mr Ps submissions I include those made on his behalf.
Mr P entered into the timeshare agreement with his partner, but as the finance agreement
was in his sole name, I will refer only to Mr P or his representatives in this decision.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May of this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What happened
Mr P purchased a timeshare from a company Ill call A, in April 2012 (the Time of Sale). He
financed the deal through a fixed sum loan with Mitsubishi.
The timeshare membership agreement gave him the right to occupy an apartment at a resort
in Greece, for a prescribed week of every year until the expiry of the membership in
December 2036.
Mr P complained to Mitsubishi in December 2018. He said that the timeshare had been
misrepresented to him and that he had a like claim against the credit provider (Mitsubishi) as
he did against the supplier under section 75 of the CCA. He said that the agreement was
illegal under Spanish law and that the timeshare agreement, and the finance agreement that
funded it, were therefore null and void. He also suggested that the timeshare agreement was
in breach of a European directive and that commission paid to the broker should have been
disclosed. It was Mr Ps assertion that he wouldnt have proceeded with the timeshare deal
had it not been for the unfair relationship and the misrepresentations.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He didnt think theyd been
able to demonstrate a breach of contract or that there was sufficient evidence of
misrepresentation. He noted that PR had expanded on their original complaint and had
raised questions about whether Mitsubishi had performed adequate affordability checks and
he explained that if PR wished to raise those new issues PR would need to be given an
opportunity to consider them before this Service could. He noted that PR had provided new
generic submissions, but he didnt take those into account as he explained they were related
to points based timeshares and to a timeshare provider, who Ill call D, who were not the
provider of Mr Ps timeshare agreement.
Mr P and his representatives didnt agree with the investigators view, and they asked for a
decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision here as its been some time since the investigator provided
his view and I cant see weve responded to all of the issues in the case.
This service cant usually consider the merits of new complaints if they havent been made to
the business first. On this occasion, I can see that Mitsubishi have considered the merits of
issues Mr P has raised since his initial complaint, and that they havent objected to this
Service considering the complaint as a whole. And given its age, it seems to me to be in
everyones interest if I now deal with everything. I am, however, issuing a provisional
decision to allow both parties the opportunity to respond to the decision Im currently inclined
to make.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations, regulators rules, guidance, and standards,
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my final decision.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as was the
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement
has a right to make the same claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Section 56 of the CCA is relevant in the context of section 140A of the CCA that Mr P also
relies on, as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of the credit broker or supplier will be
deemed to be the responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court
in deciding whether an unfair relationship exists between Mr P and the lender.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Mr P may have under sections 75 or 140A
but Im required to take the provisions into account when deciding whether the lender was
reasonable to reject Mr Ps claims.
The claim under section 75 of the CCA
Misrepresentation
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party toenter into the contract.
Mr P says that he was told that accommodation would be of a luxury standard and that
wasnt the case. I think the standard of accommodation is a subjective matter and Ive not
been provided with sufficient information to persuade me that a false statement was made
about the quality of the accommodation.
Mr P says he was told the resort was exclusive and could only be used by members. Im not
persuaded I have been provided with evidence that other members of the public were
allowed to use the resort. Thats because the information provided by Mr P relates
exclusively to availability at resorts in Spain and doesnt demonstrate availability at the
Greek resort he was a member of. But, even if was to accept that the resort wasnt
exclusive, I think that would have been clear to Mr P from the outset as hed signed up for an
international exchange scheme with a company Ill call R as part of the agreement, and it
would have therefore been clear that other members of R, who were not necessarily
members of the Resort, would have been able to use their membership to book
accommodation at the Resort.
Mr P has explained that he was promised cheaper flights would be available through R, but
Ive not been provided with any further evidence to support that assertion, or to demonstrate
that cheaper flights werent available, so I dont think theres evidence of misrepresentation.
It's also suggested that Mr P was told he could gain access to the resort at any time and
could use several weeks together. Its unclear how Mr P thinks he could gain access at any
time as his membership agreement explained he only had access for week 46. I cant see
that the timeshare agreement allowed for movement of weeks so that several weeks could
be used together either. So, I dont think theres evidence the timeshare agreement was
misrepresented to him, and I dont think Mitsubishi were unreasonable to reject that claim.
Breach of contract
PR have suggested that the timeshare agreement is null and void under Spanish law, but
the timeshare agreement explains:
15. governing LAW
The construction, validity and performance of this Agreement shall in all aspects be
governed by the laws of the Republic of Cyprus.
So, I cant see how Spanish law a consideration is here and overall, I dont think Mitsubishi
have been unreasonable not to uphold a section 75 claim.
The claim under section 140A of the CCA
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement).
We know it is common that these sales presentations often lasted for a number of hours. Ive
therefore considered whether there is evidence that Mr Ps ability to exercise choice was
significantly impaired by the lengthy presentation, the pressure, lack of breaks, and the lack
of time alone to think, that he says he experienced.
Regulation 7 of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUT
Regulations) seems to expand on the everyday definition of pressure. At the time of sale,
Regulation 7 stated that a commercial practice was aggressive if, in its factual context andtaking account of all of its features and circumstances, it:
a. significantly impaired or was likely to significantly impair the average consumers
freedom of choice or conduct in relation to the product concerned through the
use of harassment, coercion, or undue influence; and
b. caused or was likely to cause the consumer to take a transactional decision they
would not have taken otherwise as a result.
Regulation 7(2) went on to say that consideration must be given to the timing, location,
nature and persistence of the practice. And when thinking about whether undue
influence was applied, Regulation 7(3) said that thought must be given as to whether
the Supplier exploited a position of power in relation to the consumer so as to apply
pressure, even without using or threatening to use physical force, in a way which
significantly [limited] the consumers ability to make an informed decision.
I dont think Ive been provided with sufficient information to suggest Mr P didnt understand
he didnt have to say yes to the agreement or that he didnt understand he could walk away
without entering into it. He had, after all, been to what I think was likely to be a similar
presentation, when he signed up for the trial. He was also provided with a 14 day cooling off
period and I think, even if he wasnt allowed much time to think during the presentation, the
cooling off period allowed him to reflect and withdraw from the agreement and the loan if he
wished.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr Ps ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have
been  significantly impaired contrary to Regulation 7 of the CPUT Regulations.
PR suggest that Mr Ps rights to a weeks accommodation at the Resort amount to a long-
term holiday product as defined in the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange
Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 2010 Regulations). They say that Regulation 26 of those
Regulations, stipulates that payments towards the agreement should have been in
instalments. But this wasnt a long-term holiday product as defined by Regulation 8 of the
2010 Regulations, it was a Timeshare Contract as defined under Regulation 7, and in those
circumstances, Regulation 26 (Payment schedule  long term holiday products) didnt, and
doesnt, apply.
PR say that the timeshare company accepted a deposit from Mr P in advance of the
agreement and that, as the deposit was taken in contravention of Article 9 of Directive
2008/122/EC of the European Parliament, the contract should be rescinded. That Directive
says:
Member States shall ensure that in relation to timeshare, long-term holiday product and
exchange contracts any advance payment, provision of guarantees, reservation of money on
accounts, explicit acknowledgement of debt or any other consideration to the trader or to any
third party by the consumer before the end of the withdrawal period according to Article 6, is
prohibited.
I cant see that the finance agreement included any advance payment, and the agreement
explained that the first payment was due on 27 May 2012, which was after the 14 day
withdrawal period had expired. So, Im not persuaded there was a contravention of the
Directive.
I have also considered the matter of commission in relation to this transaction. I dont think
the fact that Mitsubishi may have paid the Supplier commission was incompatible with its
role in the transaction. The Supplier wasnt acting as an agent of Mr P but as the supplier of
contractual rights he obtained under the purchase agreement. And, in relation to the loan,based on what Ive seen, I dont think it was the Suppliers role to make an impartial or
disinterested recommendation or to give Mr P advice or information on that basis. Whats
more, I havent seen any persuasive evidence that the typical amounts of commission paid
by Mitsubishi to suppliers (like the Supplier) when loans were interest bearing (as was the
case on this occasion) was likely to be high enough to create an unfair debtor-creditor
relationship given the circumstances of this particular complaint. I think its unlikely a court
would find that the failure to disclose commission in this case created an unfair relationship
under s.140A.
Ultimately, I do not consider it likely that a court would conclude that the lenders acts and/or
omissions, or those of the supplier or credit broker as agents of the lender, generated an
unfair debtor  creditor relationship here.
Unaffordable lending
Mr P says that the lender didnt perform adequate credit checks or review his credit file when
approving the loan, and that they didnt conform to guidance from the Office of Fair Trading
on lending.
However, when considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is
whether the borrowing was likely to prove unaffordable in practice and whether the
complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So even if I
was persuaded that the lender did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding),
for me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that the
credit granted by them was likely to be unaffordable and that Mr P suffered a loss as a
result. Ive not been provided with sufficient evidence from Mr P to suggest he didnt have
enough disposable income to sustainably afford repayments against this loan, and I dont
therefore think it would be reasonable to suggest the lender was irresponsible when
providing the credit.
My provisional decision
Im not currently expecting to uphold this complaint.
Further comments or evidence
Mitsubishi didnt provide any further comments, but Mr Ps representatives did. They said:
We do not agree with the decision.
We return in this matter to the submissions we have provided in each non-fractional matter. 
We are also of the view that these have not been considered at all and a decision has 
already been reached in each matter, as appears to be the case from the nature of your 
emails on this subject.
However, there does appear to be some confusion about our arguments in relation to non-
fractional matters. We DO NOT assert that both were sold as an investment. That is not the 
reason as to why these matters are similar. The key issue is the fairness of what each 
consumer was (or not) advised of.
In the precedent CLC fractional decision, in paragraphs 136  227, the Ombudsman reviews 
the voluminous documentation supporting the fractional product. The Ombudsman found it 
was unfair and, in the recent decision by Mrs Justice Collins Rice, she found that the 
Ombudsman did not err in law in their application of Regulation 7(1) UTCCR. That gave 
rise to a successful claim under section 140A CCA 1974.Regardless of the investment issue, the same voluminous documents exist, and the same 
unfair charges exist.
Why is this being interpreted differently?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PR havent advised which of their submissions they feel I have not considered and having 
reviewed them again I think I have dealt with them in some detail.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations, regulators rules, guidance, and standards,
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time, and having done that, I may consider what is fair in the 
circumstances. Having done that Im persuaded that it wouldnt be fair to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint on the various issues Ive set out above.
Regulation 7(1) of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR) 
says:
A seller or supplier shall ensure that any written term of a contract is expressed in plain, 
intelligible language.
Im not persuaded that the issues raised in this complaint can be fairly compared to those 
considered by the judge in the 2023 judicial review PR refer to. The judge in that case was 
considering whether it was fair to market the investment aspect of a fractional timeshare 
agreement. In my opinion, and for the reasons Ive already given, Im not persuaded the 
aspects PR have raised on Mr Ps behalf in this case suggest there has been a breach of 
Regulation 7(1) of the UTCCR.
Having considered PRs additional comments Im not therefore persuaded to change my 
provisional decision and that provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman