DRN-2975278
The complaint
Mr H complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as 
American Express (Amex) made his credit card statements paperless. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has a credit card with Amex. In 2020 Amex decided to issue paperless statements, 
unless customers opted out. It says this was because of disruption caused to post by the 
pandemic and that it notified its customers by email. Mr H is unhappy with the change as 
he prefers paper statements and doesnt consider an email sufficient notification. I dont 
think it was wrong for Amex to change customers to paperless statements and in my 
view an email  a durable medium  was enough notification. 
Mr H complained to Amex in September 2020 upon realising hed not received a paper 
statement and had subsequently missed a minimum payment. Amexs notes show Mr H 
was dissatisfied, but that a complaint wasnt registered because Mr H ended the call 
prematurely. This appears to have happened again in October 2020 and November 
2020. Mr H added some further points of dissatisfaction, which were an inability to get 
through to a 24-hour phone line and his card being declined. I can understand Mr Hs 
frustration here, but Im persuaded his complaint wasnt actioned in a timely manner in 
large part because he ended calls prematurely rather than as a result of errors on the 
part of Amex.
In mid-November 2020 Amex issued its final response to the complaint. It didnt think it 
had done anything wrong by changing Mr H to paperless statements in the way it did 
and said if he called to confirm his address, he could be changed back to paper 
statements. It went on to say its phone lines are open 24/7 and that his call didnt go 
through because of a technicality. It said his card was declined because his account 
wasnt up-to-date. It further said as Mr H had missed a payment a charge had been 
applied and the credit reference agencies (CRAs) had likely been informed. It told him 
what he needed to do to get the account up-to-date. 
Mr H was dissatisfied with the contents of the final response letter. But I find it addressed 
his concerns and provided reasonable explanations. As set out above, I dont find it was 
wrong for Amex to change customers to paperless statements and to notify them by 
email. Although seemingly unnecessary, given the personal nature of information 
contained on statements, I find it was reasonable for Amex to want Mr H to confirm his 
address before changing him back to paper statements. I find being unable to get 
through to a call centre on one occasion a minor inconvenience. I find declining a card 
when an account is in arrears common place, and therefore not a mistake on the part of 
Amex. And I find applying a late payment charge, and notifying the CRAs, when a 
payment is missed industry practice and therefore, again, not a mistake on the part of 
Amex. 
Overall, Amex hasnt done anything significantly wrong here. It follows I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman