DRN-4217702
The complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide Building Society won't supply copies of his bank statements 
in a machine readable format.
What happened
Nationwide closed Mr G's account in March 2023. As he was going through divorce 
proceedings and had more complex financial affairs than the standard customer, he required 
12 months bank statements in a .csv format. I understand this to be in spreadsheet format 
which can be transferred to programmes like excel. He complained that Nationwide was in 
breach of his right to data portability as set out by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO).
Nationwide explained that it could not supply statements in that format for closed accounts. It 
offered to provide them in PDF format but that was not suitable for Mr G. It said that its 
regulatory requirement was to provide usable data and it believed that this complied with that 
requirement.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Adjudicator said that he did not think 
that Nationwide had done anything wrong and that we couldn't ask it to change its policies. 
He pointed out that it is possible to convert documents that are in PDF format to .csv.
Mr G was not happy with this and reiterated that the ICO set out his right to data portability.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered this matter but I don't think that the Financial Ombudsman Service is the 
right forum to decide Mr G's complaint. Whilst in some circumstances we can look at data 
protection complaints, the remedy that Mr G seeks is for Nationwide to change its policy and 
most likely its technical procedures. That is not something that I have the power to require.
On the face of it, Nationwide has supplied the information requested in a readable format 
which can be converted to a machine readable format. But for closed accounts it cant (or its 
present policy wont allow it to) provide documents directly in the .csv format. I think its 
position is fair and reasonable, in the light of current evidence.
I have considered the ICO's note on the right to data portability. I think the appropriate step 
for Mr G to take, if he thinks that Nationwide has breached his right, would be for him to 
make a complaint to the ICO. I presume he has researched that option, but I should 
emphasise that in light of the technical nature of his request to Nationwide, which centres on 
data access, the ICO is in a better position to judge whether Nationwide is in breach of 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman