DRN-3285203
Complaint
Miss M complained about a mis-sold mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy. 
The mortgage and MPPI have long since been closed and Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, is responsible for answering the complaint. Ill therefore mainly refer to Halifax 
throughout this decision.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this complaint and told Miss M its unlikely to 
be upheld. She disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt Miss M genuinely and honestly feels 
the MPPI was mis-sold to her. However, Im afraid I dont think thats right.
I note that Miss M herself recalls a discussion with an advisor about the MPPI when she 
was taking out a mortgage in a Halifax branch. I also think it would have been clear that this 
was a policy she didnt have to buy if she didnt want to. For example, she appears to have 
gone through a specific process to have the MPPI added to her mortgage by completing a 
separate application form, which I see she signed on 7 December 1993. I note, also, that 
she received a Mortgage Offer document, an important part of her borrowing which I think 
Miss M would have wanted to read very carefully. This said that the MPPI was something 
that was recommended, so Miss M could have seen that it was optional, rather than 
compulsory. She was also asked certain questions about her job and health.
Miss M refers to the policy not being optional in her complaint, but in my view, what shes 
said about the meeting  and what Ive described above  show the she could have 
declined the cover if she didnt want it. 
The evidence shows that Halifax properly obtained Miss Ms consent.
Halifax sold the MPPI as part of an advised sale. This means it had a duty to ensure it was 
suitable for Miss Ms needs. She says it wasnt suitable and that affordability was an issue. 
Im afraid I dont agree and overall I think it was suitable. 
I say this because Miss M appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by 
any of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. Ive seen nothing that 
suggests it wasnt affordable for her  at £20.70 per month I think it was manageable in 
accordance with her salary and so recommending the MPPI wasnt wrong. Clearly if Miss M 
felt otherwise, she could have declined the recommendation.
Miss M also implied she didnt need the cover because she had sickness protection with 
her job. Ive thought very carefully about this and I agree her sickness protection and 
general level of workplace benefits would have been quite good. But this doesnt mean the 
policy wasnt suitable for her. Miss Ms mortgage was secured against her home and so the 
consequences of her not being able to keep up payments could have been serious. In the 
event of a successful claim, the cover was payable for up to 12 months at £300 per month 
and this would have been in addition to any other means she had in place at the time. So 
although I cant say why she decided to buy this policy, I dont think it being recommended 
to her in this context was unreasonable either. I think the policy was a suitable product for 
her consideration.
 
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. We no 
longer have all the paperwork left from the sale, but given how long ago it was, that isnt 
unusual. Businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. So, obviously I cant 
confirm whether Halifax did everything right, but having discussed the cover I think Miss M 
would have been given the supporting literature explaining the policy rules. I note she held 
on to the policy for several years and I think its much more likely she had the information 
necessary to make an informed choice.
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss M and I can see shes had a difficult journey in bringing the 
complaint. But I think there is plenty of evidence she engaged in discussions about this sale 
and would have gone through a number of steps to get the policy, including signing a 
declaration saying it was something she wanted to have. She agreed to the policy by way of 
applying for it in addition to her mortgage and theres no supporting evidence it was 
unaffordable for her. 
I dont find anything that supports her complaint that the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
I do not direct Bank of Scotland plc to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman