DRN-4189065
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr S complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
unfairly turned down their claim. 
Mrs S brings this complaint on behalf of the estate, and for ease I will refer to all submissions 
as having been made by her. 
What happened
The late Mr S held a life assurance policy underwritten by L&G. The policy was designed to 
pay a defined benefit in the event of Mr Ss death or terminal illness, during the 20 year 
policy term. 
L&G said Mr Ss policy premium hadnt been paid since March 2021, as the direct debit had 
failed.  Mr and Mrs S got in touch at the end of June 2021 after receiving a letter from L&G 
about the missed premiums. They asked to reinstate the policy and change the date the 
direct debit was taken from their account. L&G said it could reinstate the policy and needed 
Mr S to pay the missed premium payments from April, May and June 2021. It also asked for 
a declaration of health to be completed for the period since the premium had not been paid. 
Mr S was asked the following question and answered no. 
Since 28 March 2021 have you required any medical treatment, been referred to or 
seen a hospital doctor or had any medical investigations or tests?
Mr S was later diagnosed with cancer in August 2021. He and Mrs S began a terminal illness 
claim. However, Mr S very sadly passed away shortly after in September 2021, and a life 
claim was submitted by Mrs S. 
When assessing the claim, L&G said it found information in Mr Ss medical notes, which 
should have been declared when the policy was reinstated in June 2021. It said Mr S should 
have declared consultations hed had in May and June 2021 as well as blood tests. And said 
these showed Mr S was having investigations for pain, which it needed to know about. 
A report provided by Mr Ss GP shows the following information. 
17 May 2021 - Mr S reported symptoms of reflux, epigastric tenderness and nausea which 
had been ongoing for a few weeks. He was prescribed medication.
11 and 16 June 2021 - Mr S contacted the GP again and said his symptoms were not 
improving. An appointment was arranged.  
18 June 2021  Mr S saw the GP and reported the pain in his upper abdomen was radiating 
to his back. The GP conducted a stool test and arranged blood tests. 
30 June 2021  the blood tests were conducted. 
Had Mr S declared the information about his treatment and tests in May and June 2021, 
L&G said it would have requested more information and wouldnt have agreed to reinstate 
the policy at that time. It said this was because Mr S was under investigation for a possible 
condition. 
L&G said it thought Mr S had acted without care as to whether the answer he gave was 
right. And it cancelled the policy and declined the claim. 
Mrs S complained to L&G about the declination of the claim. L&G said it had complied with 
the regulations and had been entitled to cancel the policy and refuse the claim, as it thought 
Mr S had made a deliberate / reckless misrepresentation. 
Unhappy with L&Gs response, Mrs S brought her complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened and said they didnt think L&G had acted unfairly. 
L&G made no comments, however Mrs S disagreed with the investigators view and asked 
for a decision from an ombudsman. In summary she said:
the medical evidence shows it was not known that Mr S was suffering with any 
serious condition until July / August 2021 and Mr S did not act recklessly or try to 
misrepresent his information;
it is presumptuous for L&G to say they would not have continued with the policy as 
the medical team had been unable to make a diagnosis based on Mr Ss original 
symptoms; 
the policy had only lapsed due to the direct debit failing and they needed L&G to 
change the date the payment would be taken; and
the family have been severely financially impacted by the declination of the claim.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint is one which should be upheld. And Ill explain 
why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
L&G has said Mr S failed to take reasonable care in answering its question when the policy 
was reinstated. As Ive set out above, Mr S was asked if hed had medical treatment, been 
referred to or had seen a hospital doctor, or had any investigations or tests since mid March 
2021. Mr S answered no, however L&G has said he should have answered yes and 
provided information about his visits to the GP and tests during May and June 2021. The medical records show Mr S was prescribed medication during a GP visit on 17 May 
2021. I think its reasonable to say this was treatment, so I think its fair to expect Mr S to 
have told L&G about this when asked. And he also had a stool test on 18 June 2021. At that 
appointment, blood tests were arranged, and these took place on 30 June 2021. L&Gs 
question had asked about any medical investigations or tests. So I think its reasonable that 
Mr S should have told L&G hed had stool and blood tests. 
I think the question L&G asked was sufficiently clear, and I think based on the medical 
evidence, Mr S should have declared that he had been prescribed medication and had tests. 
Particularly as the blood tests took place on the same day as Mr and Mrs Ss call to L&G to 
reinstate the policy. 
I think its reasonable that L&G asked Mr S about medical information since the policy 
premiums had stopped being paid. The policy terms say L&G has the right to cancel the 
policy within 30 days of a missed premium payment. So, I think its fair that L&G said it could 
reinstate the policy if the premiums were brought up to date and a health declaration was 
made. 
L&G has shared its underwriting guidelines with this service for the purpose of our 
investigation of the complaint. I appreciate Mrs S has said she has doubts over what L&G 
has said it would have done, as in June 2021, Mr Ss cancer had not been diagnosed. The 
underwriting guidelines are commercially sensitive, so cannot be shared with the estate.  
However, Ive reviewed them and am satisfied that had Mr S declared he was awaiting the 
results of investigations into the symptoms he was experiencing, L&G would have been 
unable to reinstate the policy at that time. 
As Ive explained, Im satisfied Mr S failed to take reasonable care to answer L&Gs question 
correctly. And Ive considered what good industry practice was at the time of the claim, as 
set out in the Association of British Insurers (ABI) Code of Practice. The Code says reckless 
or deliberate misrepresentation is more likely to apply where the information concerns recent 
or ongoing treatment. 
L&G has classed this misrepresentation as deliberate / reckless and Im persuaded this was 
fair, as the medical records reflected the consultations where medication was prescribed and 
the stool and blood tests, had taken place very recently. 
For L&G to take any action, there needs to have been a qualifying misrepresentation. So I 
need to identify whether or not the misrepresentation made by Mr S made a difference to 
L&G. As Ive said, L&G provided evidence from its underwriters confirming, had the 
additional medical information about the investigations been declared, it wouldnt have been 
able to reinstate the policy. And because of this, Im satisfied the misrepresentation was a 
qualifying one. 
L&G treated the misrepresentation as deliberate / reckless. And in these circumstances, the 
remedy available under CIDRA is for it to avoid the policy. And its not obliged to refund any 
premiums paid. L&G avoided the policy, which I think it was entitled to do, and as this means 
the policy was cancelled from the start, there is no policy against which the claim for Mr Ss 
death can be assessed. I note that L&G has refunded the policy premiums which had been 
paid, despite it not being required to do so, and I think this shows L&G acted fairly.  
As Ive explained, Im satisfied L&G was entitled to take the action it did in the case of a 
deliberate / reckless misrepresentation, as this is in line with CIDRA. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint and I 
make no award against Legal and General Assurance Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman