DRN-3062907
The complaint
Mr G complains about fees Sanderson Drake Limited charged him after a lender settled an 
unaffordable lending complaint. 
What happened
Mr G instructed Sanderson Drake to represent him in complaints about unaffordable lending 
against various lenders. In October 2020 Mr G asked the Claims Management Ombudsman 
to look into a complaint hed made to Sanderson Drake about the service it had provided.
 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs concerns and thought one of his complaint points 
should be upheld. She didnt think Sanderson Drake should have advised Mr G to reject an 
offer from a lender for one of his loans and refer it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She 
recommended Sanderson Drake pay Mr G £100 for the trouble and upset this had caused.
 
Mr G agreed with our investigators view. He said what shed suggested would be a fair way 
to resolve the matter. But he queried what would happen about the invoice Sanderson Drake 
had raised in November 2020 regarding the complaint hed been wrongly advised on.
Mr G said hed contacted the lender directly to see if their offer of a balance reduction still 
stood and accepted their offer. A few days later Sanderson Drake had invoiced him for 
£347.52 for its percentage of the balance reduction. He said it had followed this with 
threatening emails and had instructed a debt collection agency to chase him for the invoice, 
which, with interest, had gone up to £517.42. Mr G asked if Sanderson Drake would have to 
cancel the invoice and call off the debt collectors or would still be able to pursue him.
The investigator said that the fees would still be due, in line with the terms and conditions. If 
Mr G wanted to dispute the fees and charges, hed need to raise a separate complaint with 
Sanderson Drake as these werent part of his original complaint. She also reminded him that 
he could ask an ombudsman to look at the complaint shed considered if he was unhappy 
with her view.
 
Mr G raised a second complaint with Sanderson Drake and asked our service for help when 
he didnt get a response. Sanderson Drake said it had charged Mr G its fee in line with the 
terms and conditions he had agreed to when he signed up to use its services. Our 
investigator was satisfied that Sanderson Drake had applied the fees correctly and thought it 
was fair for it to have pursued Mr G for these.
Mr G disagreed with our investigators view. He didnt think it was fair for Sanderson Drake 
to have raised the invoice for fees when it had agreed it had made mistakes in handling his 
complaint against the lender. He was unhappy that Sanderson Drake had delayed 
responding to his second complaint for five months and had only done so after receiving 
contact from our service. He felt Sanderson Drake should have reached out to try to resolve 
the matter rather than sending emails threatening legal action. He thought it would be 
reasonable for Sanderson Drake to reduce the amount of the invoice because it had only 
part completed the claim. So, Mr Gs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
The advice Sanderson Drake gave to Mr G to bring his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service rather than accept the lenders offer of redress was the subject of the 
previous complaint he brought to our service. Mr G accepted the investigators 
recommendation that Sanderson Drake pay him £100 for trouble and upset in resolution of 
that complaint. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment further on the matter.
 
What Ive needed to consider for this complaint, is whether Sanderson Drake acted fairly in 
charging Mr G its success fee for the redress he received from the lender and the actions 
taken to pursue him for its fee. 
When Mr G instructed Sanderson Drake to pursue his claims against the lender in February 
2020, he agreed to the terms in its condition fee agreement which sets out the fees and 
includes the wording:
Where We deem your Claim Successful, We charge a fee of 36% inclusive of VAT 
calculated on the total Redress offered.
Redress is defined as any financial benefit offered by the Lender as a result of a Claim 
which may include (a) Cash Benefit, (b) Reduction of balance or (c) Combination.
The agreement also gives examples of how the fee is calculated and says: Where a Full 
Reduction of balance is made, our fee will require payment which may require you to find an 
alternative payment source.
Im satisfied that Sanderson Drake provided Mr G with clear information about the fee it 
would charge for a successful claim, including what would happen if redress was in the form 
of a balance reduction. Mr G says he accepted the lenders offer of £965.33 redress which 
was used to reduce his outstanding loan balance. This means that Sanderson Drake was 
allowed to charge Mr G its success fee of £347.52.
Mr G feels strongly that he shouldnt have to pay Sanderson Drakes full fee because he 
contacted the lender himself to accept their offer. He says Sanderson Drake only part 
completed the claim. But Mr Gs concerns about the service he received from Sanderson 
Drake were dealt with in his previous complaint and Mr G accepted compensation for this. It 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to consider these issues again. Mr G engaged 
Sanderson Drakes services on a no win, no fee basis and his claim against the lender was 
successful. So, I think its fair for Sanderson Drake to charge Mr G its success fee. 
Mr G has also raised concerns about the actions Sanderson Drake has taken to pursue 
payment of the fee, including additional charges. 
The condition fee agreement sets out the timescales for Sanderson Drakes fees to be paid. 
It says: Full Reduction of debt which requires a payment plan must be set up within 7 days 
of offer. It also says that debt collection fees will be applied where the fee remains unpaid. I 
cant see that Mr G attempted to arrange a payment plan within the specified timescale. 
I appreciate Mr G feels Sanderson Drake should have put a hold on recovery action while 
his complaints were being investigated by our service. But it wasnt under any obligation to 
do so. While one of our investigators asked Sanderson Drake to put a hold on requests for payment in December 2020, he also let Mr G know that we didnt have the power to stop 
these unless we decided that the invoice was unfair. 
I understand Mr G is also unhappy that Sanderson Drake didnt issue its final response to 
this complaint until five months after he sent it. But I can only consider a complaint if it falls 
within certain criteria set out in our case-handling rules which I must apply. These can be 
found in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook 
(available online).
DISP 2 says we can only look into complaints about certain activities, for example, those 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Complaint handling isnt an activity that we 
have the power to look at. So, while I appreciate Mr Gs frustration that Sanderson Drake 
didnt respond to his complaint until after our service got involved, Im unable to consider this 
issue.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr G, but having considered all of his points, I 
havent found reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman