DRN-3011486
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) will only refund him 50% of the funds he lost
to an investment scam.
What happened
In 2019 Mr M says he was contacted on a social media platform by someone he didnt know.
Mr M says this person told him they were a trader and could make him some money. Mr M
was told the minimum investment was £600 and that within 2 hours they could guarantee
him a profit of £1,800. They explained this was through forex trading they would do on
Mr Ms behalf.
Mr M says that he believed the investment opportunity was legitimate as there were positive
reviews/comments on the traders social media page from other people she had traded for.
Mr M initially sent £600 on 22 November 2019 at around 1pm. When Mr M hadnt heard
anything a couple of hours later, he contacted the trader who told him his investment had
generated a return of over £15,000. But in order for the funds to be released, Mr M would
need to send them a further £2,500 as a premium fee. Mr M sent the payment of £2,500 at
around 4pm. For the next few hours Mr M had regular contact with the trader, trying to find
out when his funds would be released. The trader told Mr M that he was in a pay out queue
and that his payment would be processed. At around 8pm Mr M was told that the premium
fee was actually £4,000 and was asked to send a further £1,500. Mr M says at this point he
realised that something was wrong.
Mr M contacted Metro at around 10pm the same day and let them know that hed been the
victim of a scam.
Metro contacted the two receiving banks that the payments were made to, in order to
recover any remaining funds for Mr M.
Both receiving banks responded to Metro and only £5.83 was recovered. Metro let Mr M
know and he raised a complaint asking Metro to refund all of the funds hed transferred.
Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Metro says one or more of those
exceptions applies in this case.
Having considered the circumstances around Mr M making the payments, Metro made an
offer to refund 50% of the amount Mr M had sent. It said it couldve done more to advise
Mr M around the risk of scams which is why it refunded 50%. But felt he didnt take
reasonable steps to check if the investment was genuine so declined to refund the full
amount.
My provisional findings
On 23 July 2021 I issued a provisional decision due to reaching a different outcome on the 
case than our investigator had. I asked for both parties to provide any more comments or 
evidence that they wanted to be considered before issuing my final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen Im not satisfied that Metro should refund any further funds to Mr M 
and Ill explain why.
The CRM Code sets out when a bank should reimburse a scam victim and it provides
increased protection for customers who are the victim of scams. But the CRM Code doesnt
mean a bank must reimburse every scam victim. The CRM Code permits a bank to choose
not to reimburse a customer in some cases where the bank is able to establish that the
customer didnt take sufficient care in making the transaction, and that this made
a difference.
Metro has already accepted that Mr M wouldnt have been shown a warning when making
the transfers, and as such theyve offered to refund him 50% of the transfers.
So, Ive considered whether under the CRM code Metro should fairly refund Mr M for the
remaining funds.
A bank might decline a refund if it can be demonstrated that the customer made the
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
In considering these points account should be taken of all of the circumstances of the
case, including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam.
Metro says it doesnt believe that Mr M should be refunded the remaining 50%, as he didnt
have a reasonable basis for belief that the investment was genuine  saying he made no
checks.
Having considered everything, Im minded to agree with Metro for the following reasons:
Mr M was contacted out of the blue by someone he didnt know on a social media 
platform. He hadnt been looking to invest and hadnt initiated contact with the person 
who messaged him - this shouldve raised some questions in his mind as to why he 
was being contacted.
The rate of return that Mr M was offered was too good to be true. For an initial 
investment of £600 he was told that he would get a return of £1,800 in a couple of 
hours. While I appreciate that Mr M may not have invested previously, I think any 
reasonable person would find this return unusually high in such a short period of 
time.
While Mr M was given a screen shot of what was supposed to be his investment after 
he made the first payment, he was given no paperwork, forms to complete or details about the trading that was happening. And he didnt ask any questions when he was 
told there was a £2,500 premium fee to release his funds, which hadnt been 
mentioned at all prior to him transferring his £600. I think this shouldve raised 
serious concerns with Mr M before making the second payment.
More importantly, prior to sending the first payment of £600 Mr M voiced concerns 
over the legitimacy of the investment himself. In the messages with the trader he 
says And Im a little skeptical about this cause Ive done such a thing, how do you 
make me so much in short period of time. And immediately after sending the £600 
says Im trusting you please keep your word, Im sorry for keeping my guard up I just 
dont want this going the wrong way. This all indicates to me that Mr M had doubts 
and concerns about the legitimacy of the investment from the outset. Due to that I 
wouldve expected him to do some checks which mayve included talking to his 
parents, doing some checks on the traders details etc. I think any checking wouldve 
alerted him to the fact that this doesnt look like a legitimate investment.
Ive considered the fact that Mr M was only 18 at the time this happened and that he hadnt
invested previously. But I think there were enough red flags that shouldve caused him
concern, and this is supported by the fact that he voiced concern to the trader about the
return that was being offered. In the circumstances, I dont think its reasonable that Mr M did
no checks prior to sending the funds and suggests that he didnt have a reasonable basis to
believe it was a genuine investment. So, Im not satisfied that I can fairly ask Metro to refund
the balance of Mr Ms funds under the CRM code.
Could Metro have done more to prevent the payment being made or to recover Mr Ms 
funds?
Im also mindful that when Mr M made these payments Metro should fairly and reasonably
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might
indicate that its customers are at risk of fraud (among other things).
In this case the first payment was for £600 and the second payment was for £2,500. They
were sent a couple of hours apart and were sent by a payment method Mr M used regularly
on his account. While I appreciate that £2,500 is a lot of money for Mr M, Im not persuaded
that either the first or second payment were remarkable enough that Metro shouldve
identified a scam risk in this case. And as I dont think the payments shouldve flagged with
Metro, I cant fairly say that they couldve or shouldve done anything to prevent these
payments being made.
From what Ive seen Metro was advised the same day as the payments were made, that
Mr M had been the victim of fraud. They contacted one of the receiving banks the same day
and contacted the other receiving bank the following day. Unfortunately, by the time they
contacted the receiving banks, the money had already been removed from the beneficiary
accounts  except for £5.83 which was recovered and returned to Mr M. As the fraud was
reported at around 10pm at night, I think Metro did contact the receiving banks within a
reasonable timeframe. But as is the case in most of these situations, the funds are usually
removed from the beneficiary account immediately to prevent any funds being recovered if
the fraud is raised with the bank. So overall, Im satisfied Metro made reasonable attempts in
trying to recover Mr Ms funds.
I appreciate that this has been an extremely distressing situation for Mr M, and that its left
him feeling unable to trust people. But this distress has been caused by the scammer taking
advantage of Mr M, rather than by Metro. In deciding this case I need to look at the actions
Metro took, whether theyve acted fairly and reasonably and whether its fair to ask them to
refund Mr M.Having considered everything, Im not satisfied that I can fairly ask Metro to refund Mr M
anything further.
Metro responded to my provisional decision, saying they had nothing further to add. Mr M 
hasnt responded despite us contacting his representative several times.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or evidence to consider, Ive reached the 
same outcome as I did in my provisional decision  the reasons for which are set out above.
On that basis I cant fairly ask Metro to refund Mr M, and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman