DRN-3198856
The complaint
Miss N is unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) declined her claim for storm 
damage.
What happened
Miss N had buildings and contents insurance with Fairmead. In the summer of 2021, she 
made a claim under her policy for storm damage after she noticed her outhouse roof was 
sagging. Fairmead declined the claim because there hadnt been any storm conditions 
around that time. Miss N said the sagging had become worse following earlier storms and 
she asked Fairmead to investigate.
Fairmeads contractor reported that the roof timbers were too small to carry the weight of the 
roof. Fairmead declined Miss Ns claim because it concluded the damage was due to poor 
workmanship.
Miss Ns own roofer reported that the roof had sagged because it had settled and storm 
conditions had started to lift the covering. But Fairmead remained of the opinion that a storm 
hadnt caused the damage.
Our investigator didnt think Fairmead had done anything wrong. She found that there had 
been a storm a month before Miss N made her claim, but our investigator didnt think a storm 
had caused the roof to sag.
Miss N disagreed. She said Fairmead hadnt explained how the timbers were too small to 
support the weight of the roof, so she thought it should offer a compromise.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Miss N will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
When making a claim, its Miss Ns responsibility to show that an insured event has 
happened. If Fairmead declines the claim, it is responsible for showing why the policy allows 
it to decline. My role is to decide whether Fairmead declined Miss Ns claim fairly, in line with 
the policy and for the reasons it gave.
Ive looked at the photos provided and I can see that Miss Ns flat, outhouse roof was 
holding rainwater. When looking at a storm damage claim, I consider three things:
Was there a storm?
Was the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Was the storm the only or main cause of the damage?
Was there a storm?
Fairmead initially declined Miss Ns claim because there was no evidence of storm 
conditions around the time she made her claim. However, Miss N said it was poor weather 
conditions leading up to her claim which caused the roof damage. In the month before Miss 
Ns claim, I can see that there were strong winds meeting the definition of a storm, so Ill 
move onto the next consideration. 
Was the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Damage typically caused by strong winds might be broken tiles or lifted roof coverings. Here, 
the photos show that Miss Ns roof has sagged allowing rainwater to pool. Looking at her 
roofers report, I can see that storm damage is cited as a possible cause:
Some of the fibre glass and resin is peeling up from the roof boards, it seems to have 
been caught by strong winds, possibly after the last storm.
While peeling resin isnt necessarily typical of storm damage, Fairmead didnt decline Miss 
Ns claim for that reason. So, Ill move on to the final consideration.
Was the storm the only or main cause of the damage?
Fairmead declined Miss Ns claim because the roof timbers are too small [and] unable to 
support the weight of the roof and some rainfallthis is a workmanship issue. The policy 
states:
Under this policy, we will not pay for:
12. Defects and faults:
Any direct loss or damage arising from defective design, defective materials, faulty 
materials, faulty workmanship or failure to follow manufacturers instructions.
But, Miss N said professionals told her the roof had been constructed with adequate timbers. 
Ive looked at the two reports Miss Ns roofer supplied, which say the following:
Upon inspection the flat roof has settled causing a dip which is retaining water after heavy 
rain fall. Some of the fibre glass and resin is peeling up from the roof boards, it seems to 
have been caught by strong winds, possibly after the last storm. I recommend fitting a 
new sub roof over the existing roof but creating a better pitch for waterflow.
And,
Upon further inspectionwe found that the original fibre glass roof was leaking and 
blistering due to the recent bad weather last month and therefore more work was needed 
to rectify the issue.
Work undertaken:
Built lightweight wooden frame on top of original flat, fibre glass roof
While the roofer says the peeling resin seems to have been caught by strong winds, the 
report doesnt say that storms caused the resin to peel. Rather, the reports say the roof 
settled, causing a dip in which water pooled. So, even if I disregard Fairmeads report, Im 
not persuaded that Miss Ns roof was storm damaged. Thats because her roofer hasnt 
stated conclusively, or even implied, that a storm caused the roof to settle, collect water, sag 
and peel. 
Fairmead declined Miss Ns claim because it said the roof damage was due to poor 
workmanship. I note that her roofers remedy was to build a new roof over the existing roof 
allowing for better water flow. This implies the original roof wasnt of an appropriate standard, and if the water had been pooling for some time, as Miss N says, then the damage 
is more likely to have been caused by the retained water rather than a storm.
So, in response to this consideration, I cant fairly say the damage was caused mainly or 
wholly by a storm.
In summary, Im satisfied that Fairmead declined Miss Ns claim fairly, for the reason it gave, 
and in line with the policy. Thats because the evidence doesnt support her view that a 
storm caused the roof damage. Therefore, I see no reason for Fairmead to reconsider the 
claim.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman