DRN-2774546
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Santander wouldnt reimburse the money he lost because of exchange 
rate movement following the recall of an international transfer he made using incorrect bank 
account details.
What happened
Mr B made an international transfer of £7,000 to his daughter. However, his daughter had 
recently closed the overseas bank account to which Mr B sent the £7,000. Mr B contacted 
Santander and asked them to recover the money that had been sent. When the money was 
eventually returned to his UK account, Mr B noticed that it was approximately £500 less than 
the amount that had been initially transferred. Mr B wasnt happy about this, so he made a 
complaint.
Santander looked at Mr Bs complaint. They explained that the reason for the reduced 
amount was because of a change in currency exchange rates, and because of this they 
didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
However, Santander acknowledged that their ongoing communication with Mr B about this 
matter could have been clearer, and they made a payment of £250 to Mr B as a gesture of 
goodwill. Santander also reimbursed Mr B a further £35.91 to cover the difference in 
exchange rates between when theyd received the money back from the overseas bank and 
when theyd credited the money to Mr Bs account three days (but one working day) later.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Santander couldnt be 
considered responsible for the delay in the overseas bank returning the money or for the 
difference in the funds received because of the change in currency exchange rate. So, they 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration here that, following the return of his money from the 
overseas bank to which he sent it, the amount received was significantly lower than the 
amount he sent.
Its within the remit of this service to instruct a business to make a payment to a customer so 
as to return that customer to the financial position that they should be in, but such an 
instruction would only be considered if it could be demonstrated that the business in 
question had, either by action or omission, caused the financial loss which the customer had 
complained to this service about.
Ultimately, I dont think that thats the case here. Mr B instructed Santander to transfer the 
money to the overseas account, and Santander followed the instructions that Mr B gave 
them. It was only later, after the money had left Santander, that it came to light that Mr Bs 
daughter had closed the overseas bank account to which Mr B had sent the money. And at 
that time Santander began the process of trying to recover the funds for Mr B.
Mr B has expressed his dissatisfaction that the money wasnt returned to his UK account 
until approximately four weeks after he sent it, and it was this delay that enabled the shifting 
currency exchange rates to have such a detrimental effect on the balance that he received 
back.
But its important to note here that the funds had been transferred, and we no longer held by 
Santander but were with the overseas bank. This means that Santander were dependent on 
the overseas bank returning the money to them. And its evident from the information I have 
available to me that Santander made repeated appeals to the overseas bank to return the 
money, such that Im satisfied that Santander cant be considered, by either action or 
omission, to have contributed to the financial loss that Mr B incurred.
I understand that Mr B wants Santander to reimburse him the difference between the 
amount sent and the lower amount received, so that he does not incur any financial loss as a 
result of whats happened here. But this doesnt feel fair to me, and I say this because I cant 
reasonably say that Santander have made any form of error here, so it doesnt follow that 
they should be asked to effectively bear the cost of the difference in exchange rates on Mr 
Bs behalf.
Mr B is also unhappy with the level of communication and general service that he received 
from Santander during the process of his money being recovered. Santander have 
acknowledged that they could have communicated more effectively with Mr B. But they have 
already made reimbursements to Mr B totalling £285.91. This is beyond what this service 
would expect, given the circumstances here, and so Im satisfied that it represents a fair and 
reasonable resolution to Mr Bs complaint.
It follows then that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Santander to take any 
further action here. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr B was wanting, but I hope 
that he can understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman