DRN-3180996
The complaint
Mr S complains about the charge for excess mileage that BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services, has made after he voluntarily terminated the 
hire purchase agreement under which a car had been supplied to him.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr S under a hire purchase agreement with Alphera Financial 
Services that he signed in May 2017. The car had a price of £46,328 and the total amount 
payable was shown on the agreement as £53,997.18. Mr S agreed to make 47 monthly 
payments of £738.94 for the car to be supplied to him. If he wanted to purchase the car at 
the end of the agreement hed have to pay an optional final repayment of £19,267 and an 
option to purchase fee of £10. The car was nearly four years old and had been driven for 
70,561 miles.
The agreement said that Mr S had the right to terminate the agreement and that Alphera 
Financial Services would be entitled to the return of the car and half of the total amount 
payable under the agreement (which was shown on the agreement as being £26,998.59). 
Mr S voluntarily terminated the agreement early in July 2020 and he returned the car. He 
says that he was charged about £200 for some damage to the car which he paid but then 
received an invoice from Alphera Financial Services in September 2020 for an excess 
mileage charge of £2,563.51 because hed exceeded the allowed mileage by 19,289 miles. 
He complained to Alphera Financial Services about the excess mileage charge and said that 
hed voluntarily terminated the agreement so it wasnt able to charge him for excess mileage 
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Alphera Financial Services said that the agreement 
made it clear that excess mileage charges were pre-termination charges, section 99(2) of 
the Act provides that voluntary termination doesnt affect a customers liability to pay for any 
charges incurred prior to termination, and that the clauses relating to the payment of excess 
mileage charges werent contrary to the Act. It said that it was confident that it hadnt acted 
incorrectly and the charge was an accurate reflection of the additional mileage incurred.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She wasnt persuaded that the provisions 
of the Consumer Credit Act would have prevented Alphera Financial Services from seeking 
payment of the excess mileage charge from Mr S upon voluntary termination if thats what 
had been contractually agreed. She was satisfied that the agreement between Mr S and 
Alphera Financial Services permitted Alphera Financial Services to apply the full excess 
mileage charge when Mr S voluntarily terminated the agreement.
Mr S has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the 
Consumer Credit Act doesnt allow Alphera Financial Services to charge for excess mileage 
as he voluntarily terminated the agreement. He says that hes taken advice from Citizens 
Advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S signed the hire purchase agreement and, in doing so, confirmed that hed read the 
agreement, including the terms and conditions, and agreed to be legally bound by its terms. 
The agreement includes wording thats prescribed by regulation about a consumers right to 
voluntarily terminate an agreement and says, under a heading which says: Termination: 
Your Rights:
You have a right to end this agreement. To do so, you should write to the person 
you make your payments to. They will then be entitled to the return of the goods and 
to half the total amount payable under this agreement, that is £26,998.59. If you have 
already paid at least this amount plus any overdue instalments and have taken 
reasonable care of the goods you will not have to pay any more.
This means that you can terminate this agreement at any time before your final 
repayment falls due by giving us written notice. You will have to return the Vehicle 
and pay (i) any arrears and any other sums which have become payable under the 
agreement before the termination (including any Excess Mileage Charge), plus (ii) 
the amount (if any) by which one-half of the total amount payable exceeds the 
amount paid by you including the advance payment plus (iii) if you do not return the 
Vehicle in good repair and condition, the sum required to compensate us for this. 
This will be your maximum liability if you comply with these requirements.
The agreement also says:
We will charge you 13.29 pence for each mile in excess of the Maximum Total 
Mileage. If you return the Vehicle before the end of the agreement, the Total 
Maximum Mileage will be reduced to reflect the shorter period of hire on a pro-rate 
basis. Your obligation to pay any Excess Mileage Charge will accrue immediately 
prior to termination.
The maximum total mileage set out in the agreement was 94,561 miles which included the 
delivery mileage of 70,561 miles. The car was inspected by a third party on behalf of Alphera 
Financial Service when it was returned. A vehicle condition report was produced which 
recorded the cars mileage as 108,850 and identified scratches on the left rear quarter panel 
and right rear door and recommended a charge of £212 for that damage. Mr S says that he 
paid for that damage and it doesnt form part of his complaint so I havent considered it any 
further. Mr S received an invoice from Alphera Financial Services in September 2020 for 
excess mileage charges of £2,563.51 because the mileage of 108,850 exceeded the 
reduced total mileage allowance by 19,289 miles. 
Sections 99 and 100 of the Consumer Credit Act set out the right that a consumer has to 
voluntary terminate their hire purchase agreement and the liability that is due on termination. 
The terms of the agreement, including those relating to any excess mileage charges, are 
required to comply with those sections. Section 99 says:
(1) At any time before the final payment by the debtor under a regulated hire 
purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall be 
entitled to terminate the agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or 
authorised to receive the sums payable under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any liability 
under the agreement which has accrued before the termination .Mr S had agreed that the  obligation to pay any Excess Mileage Charge will accrue 
immediately prior to termination  and I consider that its consistent with the provisions of 
section 99 for Alphera Financial Services to charge him for excess mileage in these 
circumstances. 
Section 100 says:
(1) Where a regulated hire-purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement is 
terminated under section 99 the debtor shall be liable, unless the agreement provides 
for a smaller payment, or does not provide for any payment, to pay to the creditor the 
amount (if any) by which one-half of the total price exceeds the aggregate of the 
sums paid and the sums due in respect of the total price immediately before the 
termination 
(4) If the debtor has contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of the goods 
or land, the amount arrived at under subsection (1) shall be increased by the sum 
required to recompense the creditor for that contravention .
Section 100(1) allows Alphera Financial Services, in effect, to charge the consumer for half 
of the total price of the car under the agreement so, if theyd already paid that amount, they 
wouldnt have to pay anything more. Section 189 of the Consumer Credit Act defines total 
price as  the total sum payable by the debtor under a hire-purchase agreement or a 
conditional sale agreement, including any sum payable on the exercise of an option to 
purchase, but excluding any sum payable as a penalty or as compensation or damages for a 
breach of the agreement....
Section 100(4) allows for the amount payable to be increased if the consumer had failed to 
take reasonable care of the car. The agreement says that Alphera Financial Services will 
charge for any damage if the car isnt returned in good repair and condition. Thats a 
separate requirement to the requirement to pay for excess mileage. 
Theres no requirement in the agreement for Mr S not to exceed the total permitted mileage 
so I dont consider that exceeding that mileage would be a breach of contract. I consider that 
the agreement sets out the maximum mileage that the car can be driven before additional 
charges become payable. Im not persuaded that exceeding a mileage limit would be 
considered to be failing to take reasonable care of the car or that the excess mileage charge 
would be considered to be compensation for a breach of contract. I consider that the excess 
mileage charge is a sum thats payable under the agreement and, as its accrued before the 
voluntary termination, its included in the total price of the car under section 100(1).
Section 173 of the Consumer Credit Act says that a term in an agreement is void to the 
extent that its inconsistent with a provision in the Act. I consider that sections 99 and 100 of 
the Act specify what can be charged for if the agreement is voluntarily terminated. The 
agreement says that Mr Ss maximum liability on termination would be any arrears and any 
other sums which have become payable under the agreement before the termination 
(including any excess mileage charge), the amount by which one-half of the total amount 
payable exceeds the amount that hed paid, and any compensation payable for not returning 
the car in good repair and condition. I dont consider that an excess mileage charge that has 
clearly been agreed to have accrued before termination and which has clearly been included 
in the maximum liability that would be payable on voluntary termination of the agreement 
would be inconsistent with sections 99 and 100 so wouldnt be void under section 173.
Mr S had contacted Alphera Financial Services about voluntarily terminating his agreement 
and it sent him a letter in July 2020 which said that he needed to pay a shortfall of £396.75 to be able to do so. The letter also said:  please read the accompanying FAQs carefully 
before making your decision and its response to one of the FAQs said: You may be liable 
for other charges such as, excess mileage and/or vehicle damage costs in accordance with 
your agreement. Please be aware excess mileage is pro-rated to the month the voluntary 
termination is accepted. Mr S paid the shortfall a few days later.
I consider that Mr S had agreed to an excess mileage charge being payable if he voluntarily 
terminated the agreement and had exceeded the permitted mileage, hed been reminded of 
that when Alphera Financial Services sent him a letter about voluntarily terminating his 
agreement in July 2020 and I dont consider that such a charge on the basis set out in the 
agreement is inconsistent with the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act. Im not persuaded 
that theres enough evidence to show that Alphera Financial Services has acted incorrectly 
in these circumstances or that it shouldnt have charged Mr S for the excess mileage.
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Alphera 
Financial Services to waive, or reduce, the excess mileage charge, to pay Mr S any 
compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint. I suggest that Mr S 
now contacts Alphera Financial Services to pay the excess mileage charge or, if hes unable 
to do so, to agree a repayment arrangement for the amount that he owes. If he doesnt do 
that, I consider it to be likely that Alphera Financial Services will take further action against 
him, to the extent that its legally entitled to do so, to recover that amount from him.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman