DRN-3656382
The complaint
Miss G complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) locked her in a branch.
What happened
Miss G says she went to BoS branch but was locked in the branch by its staff. She says 
there was a problem with a door, and she was kept in the branch without her consent for 
about nine minutes. Miss G says she wasnt told in advance there was a problem and BoS 
didnt carry out appropriate risk assessments. She says she should have been told about the 
issue and the branch evacuated. Miss G says her detention was unlawful and would like 
compensation for what took place as well as for the health problems caused. She also says 
there was a breach of Data Protection rules by not retaining branch video footage.
BoS says the door was locked when a cash machine was re-filled. It says customers were 
informed that doors would be locked for a short period for security reasons. BoS says there 
was a jam in the cash machine.
Miss G brought her complaint to us and our investigator accepted what Miss G said that 
there may have been a problem with a door. But thought BoS couldnt have foreseen that 
taking place and couldnt be held responsible for what took place.
Miss G doesnt accept that view and in summary says BoS ought to have foreseen the 
problem and says no risk assessment was carried out. She says BoS failed to comply with 
Health and Safety rules or its legal obligations and didnt comply with its duty of care to her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss G will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly she feels 
about what took place.
I hope it helps Miss G if I explain that we are not a court and so its not our role to decide if 
there has been a breach of the law. I make that clear as I can see that Miss G says that Data 
Protection rules as well as Health and Safety rules were breached. It would be for a court to 
determine such matters.
There are two different version of events here. Miss G says there was a problem with a door 
and BoS says the doors were locked for security reasons when a cash machine was refilled. 
BoS says customers were told but Miss G says they were not. In those circumstances it is 
very difficult to be sure what were the exact events. But if Miss G is correct then I cant fairly 
hold BoS responsible for a problem with its door. I cant see how that issue would have been 
reasonably foreseeable or what BoS could have done differently. I appreciate Miss G says 
that a risk assessment should have been carried out. But I disagree if a problem arose with a 
door as she says, in circumstances where there is no evidence that such a fault could have 
been anticipated.
I appreciate BoS says this was a routine refilling of a cash machine and customers were 
told.
Overall, Im satisfied that even if Miss G is correct about the events then I cant see what 
could have been done differently. Whilst I appreciate that Miss G has health concerns, I 
dont think the time spent in branch was excessive when the door was locked in any event. I 
find this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do and 
can see Miss G is considering alternative action. It follows that I cant fairly order BoS pay 
compensation or take any further steps as Miss G would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman