DRN-2432525
The complaint
Miss I complains that Homeserve Membership Limited didnt cancel her home emergency 
insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one regulated 
financial firm at a time. In our final decision we name that firm, but we dont identify any other 
party.
From at least April 2018, Miss I had a Homeserve policy. It was an annual policy for which 
she was paying the premium by instalments. 
Where I refer to Homeserve, I include call-handlers and others for whose actions I hold 
Homeserve responsible.
In February 2019, Miss I contacted Homeserve and it agreed to send a plumber. But  
unhappy with Homeserves response - Miss I got another provider to visit. So she contacted 
Homeserve to cancel its appointment.
In early July 2020, Miss I complained to Homeserve that  when she contacted it in February 
2019  she had also cancelled the policy. Miss I said Homeserve shouldnt have continued 
to take monthly instalments and it should refund her about £170.00.
Homeserve wrote a final response dated 16 July 2020. It said that the person to whom Miss I 
spoke in February 2019 couldnt cancel the policy but gave her a telephone number to call. 
Miss I brought her complaint to us on 24 July 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
Miss I formally cancelled or that Homeserve took the premiums without authority.
Miss I disagrees with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
In February 2019, she contacted Homeserve on the advertised number.
Her recollection is that the representative advised her the policy would be cancelled 
immediately. 
The authority to take premiums was withdrawn the moment she advised Homeserve 
that she wished them to cancel her contract.
Even if we accept what is now claimed by Homeserve, the representative had a 
responsibility to pass that information on to the relevant department.
When she contacted Homeserve in July 2020, it was able to cancel her contract.
Homeserve was confident it would find the call recordings. As it didnt, we should 
give her the benefit of any doubt.
Homeserve purported to carry on as usual. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what each of them says, Miss I called Homeserve on 14 February 2019 to cancel the 
plumbers appointment and she asked about cancelling the policy.
When she brought her complaint to us, Miss I said the following:
Due to the passage of time I cannot be 100% certain of everything that may have 
transpired but I have a vague recollection that the person I spoke to about the 
cancellation advised me that it would be cancelled straightaway and I assumed that 
would be done.
So she had only a vague recollection that Homeserve said the agreement would be 
cancelled straight away.
Homeserve hasnt sent us the call recording. But Homeserve has shown us a note that it 
says its call-handler made at the time. That note is as follows:
Customer called to cancel appointment as problem resolved. Then stated had made 
a complaint as had been treated badly previously (previous work) but had heard 
nothing from us, Customer refused to give any further details and stated that was 
transferred previously via [water supplier]. I attempted to get to the issue which 
caused her original complaint as appeared to be some confusion as to whether this 
was Homeserve or [water supplier]. Customer requested procedure for cancelling 
policy. Gave retentions number. Customer ended call
As that is a business record, I find that it is more likely to be accurate than Miss Is later 
recollection.
So I find that  in response to a question about the procedure for cancelling the policy - 
Homeserve gave Miss I a number to call its customer retention team. Im satisfied that this 
was clear enough. I dont consider that Homeserve shouldve done any more about 
cancelling the policy at that time. 
Homeserve continued to take payments from Miss I. These mustve showed up on her bank 
statements. And she didnt contact Homeserve when that happened in the following months.
Homeserve has shown us evidence that it sent a renewal letter and the policy automatically 
renewed in April 2019.
Homeserve has shown us evidence that it sent a renewal letter and the policy automatically 
renewed in April 2020.
Miss I didnt contact Homeserve between February 2019 and July 2020. So I dont consider that Homeserve shouldve cancelled the policy before July 2020.I dont 
find it fair and reasonable to direct Homeserve to refund any instalments or to do any more 
in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Homeserve Membership Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman