DRN-3647988
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) didnt pay Premium Bond 
winnings into his bank account between 2019 and 2020.
What happened
Mr B says hed been receiving winnings relating to his Premium Bond holding with NS&I into 
his personal bank account. But he closed that account late in 2018. It wasnt until late in 
2020 he realised that subsequent winnings hadnt been received.
Mr B spoke to NS&I who agreed to investigate matters and pay future prize payments into 
his new bank account. Having heard no more after several weeks, Mr B called NS&I again. 
He says they told him matters were in hand and he would be hear something more within 10 
days. But Mr B received no further contact from NS&I. So, he called them again. He 
eventually managed to an agent who wasnt able to help him. He was told to put his request 
in writing.
Mr B wrote to NS&I in March 2021 to complain about the situation. He told NS&I he thought 
prize money payments totalling £1,375, sent between December 2018 and November 2020, 
had been returned to them following closure of his bank account in November 2018. 
NS&I responded to Mr Bs complaint in May 2021. They said that Mr B had provided new 
bank account details to them at the end of November 2020 having identified that his previous 
bank account had been closed. NS&I confirmed they were they were working to recover 
funds that were sent to the closed account. Theyd submitted a trace request to the receiving 
bank to find the missing payments and were awaiting their response. But NS&I didnt uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. They said that because Mr B hadnt updated his bank account details with 
them before, they werent responsible for payments being sent to a closed account.
NS&I accepted that Mr B had made several attempts and approaches to them to find the 
missing funds. They said they hadnt given the expected service or managed timescales. 
NS&I apologised and paid Mr B £30. But despite this, Mr B still didnt receive the payments 
he was expecting. So, he referred his complaint to this service. He wanted NS&I to pay him 
all the payments due together with interest.
NS&I told this service prize payments had been sent to an account advised by Mr B in 
February 2019. They said Mr B had called them in October 2019 to request withdrawal of 
£30,000 from his premium bonds to be paid into a new nominated bank account. So, they 
updated his account details as requested. All subsequent prize payments were sent to that 
account until Mr B changed his account details with them again at the end of November 
2020. 
NS&I said the payments sent between October 2019 and November 2020 had been sent 
and received into the account Mr B had nominated. But it appeared Mr B hadnt realised that 
his instruction to pay £30,000 into that account in October 2019 would also impact future 
prize payments. NS&I accepted they couldve identified this sooner and explained it to Mr B. 
So, they offered a further goodwill payment of £50 to reflect this.
Our investigator didnt think NS&I had acted fairly. She found that the £30,000 withdrawal 
authorised by Mr B was to the account of a relative which he intended as a one-off payment. 
Our investigator thought NS&I should pay Mr B all the prize money subsequently sent to that 
account together with 8% interest. NS&I didnt formally respond to our investigators view. 
So, in the absence of an agreement, Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to consider.
I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, I issued a 
provisional decision on 21 July 2022  giving both Mr B and NS&I the opportunity to respond 
to my findings below before I reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
At the outset, I think its important to clearly address the position regarding the original 
list of missing prize payments Mr B says he didnt receive. These were included in his 
complaint letter to NS&I in March 2021. 
Prize payments before February 2019  NS&I have confirmed they held no 
personal bank account details for Mr B before that date. They said, Prizes before 
February 2019 were paid by warrant (cheque). No prize warrants are 
outstanding. This means NS&I sent cheques to Mr B for any prizes, which were 
all banked and cleared.
Prize payments between February 2019 and October 2019 were paid into an 
account ending 916, notified to them by Mr B on 1 February 2019. 
Prize payments between November 2019 and November 2020 were paid into an 
account ending 884, notified to them by Mr B on 10 October 2019.
Mr B says he hasnt received any amount either into his bank account or by cheque 
before February 2019. But as NS&I have confirmed the cheques were issued and 
cleared, Im satisfied that those prize payments were paid in accordance with the 
instructions NS&I held at the time. 
Mr B has confirmed the payments made between February 2019 and October 2019 
totalling £650 were paid into the bank account specified. So, it doesnt appear NS&I 
made any mistake here.
This leaves the question of prize payments sent between November 2019 and 
November 2020. The nominated bank account details were changed in NS&Is records 
following a call from Mr B to them on 10 October 2019. Ive listened to a recording of that 
call which lasts just short of four minutes. 
Mr B asked to withdraw £30,000 from his Premium Bonds which he confirmed he would 
like completed immediately  i.e. before NS&Is next Premium Bond prize draw. NS&I 
asked Mr C to confirm the bank details. At this point Mr B confirms Its going to a 
different bank account. NS&I agreed to arrange to change the account details held.
This call appears key to the subsequent problems experienced by Mr B. I say that 
because all subsequent prize payments were sent to the new account details given by 
Mr B during that call. Unfortunately, the account details Mr B gave to NS&I were, in fact, 
those of a relative he was lending the £30,000 to. But at no point did Mr B inform NS&I 
that the payment was being sent to a third party. So, while I accept that NS&I didnt 
specifically clarify that point, or that the account details change would relate to all future 
payments, I dont think Mr B gave them any cause to.
NS&I savings products are usually held in an individuals name. Payments to and from 
NS&I savings products are via a nominated UK bank account also in that persons name. 
NS&I products dont normally include the ability to make payments to a third party. Such 
payments normally need to be made via the investors nominated bank account.
Here, Mr B instructed NS&I to make payment to a third party. But he didnt tell NS&I that 
was what he was doing. So, they simply updated the account details they held using the 
information Mr B gave them. But in addition to obtaining the new account number and 
sort code details, I wouldve expected NS&I to ask Mr B to confirm the account holders name. I dont think it was safe to assume the new account details were in Mr Bs name. 
Had they done so; I think theyd have identified this was a third-party payment which 
wouldve avoided any confusion going forward. NS&I couldve either declined to make 
the third-party payment or identified that it was a one-off payment on this occasion. 
NS&I accept their agent didnt specifically ask Mr B for more details about the 
withdrawal, or the change of bank details. But Mr B was also silent on the nature of the 
transaction. So, I think both these aspects ultimately contributed to the subsequent 
problems.  
Mr B has accepted that all prize monies between November 2019 and November 2020 
totalling £625 were paid to his relatives bank account. I asked Mr B to confirm what 
attempts hed already made to retrieve those payments from his relative. Mr B said I 
have a very happy relationship with my relative who does not know that the payment 
went into their account and nor will they.
While I acknowledge Mr Bs response. NS&I did send the payments to a bank account 
previously authorised by him. They also emailed him each time he was awarded a prize 
confirming that a payment would be sent. So, he shouldve expected to receive each 
payment. Given Mr Bs close relationship with the recipient of those payments, I dont 
think its unreasonable to ask Mr B to explain the situation to his relative in an attempt to 
recover those funds. And I dont think it would be fair to ask NS&I to send further 
payments to Mr B without ultimately recovering them from Mr Bs relative. So, while I 
appreciate Mr B will be disappointed, I dont intend to ask NS&I to make those payments 
to him.
NS&I accept there were delays in understanding and resolving Mr Bs complaint. As a 
result, theyve already paid him £30. Theyve also offered a further £50 as a goodwill 
payment. Given I believe the situation couldve been avoided, had NS&I asked Mr B to 
confirm the recipient bank account name in October 2019, I think this should be reflected 
in my decision. So, I intend to formalise the payment of £50 offered by NS&I to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused here. Given the contributory factors here, I think this 
amount feel fair and reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I asked both parties to respond with any new information or 
comments they wanted me to consider. NS&I have accepted all the recommendations I 
made.
While Mr B agreed with certain (unspecified) aspects of my provisional decision, he thought 
NS&I should be asked to recover the prize money paid to his relatives bank account. He 
also thought they should pay that prize money to him as he says they were at fault for paying 
it incorrectly.
In my provisional decision, I accepted that NS&I didnt specifically clarify that the new 
account details provided by Mr B related to his relative. Or that the account details change 
would relate to all future payments. But as I also said I dont think Mr B gave them any cause 
to.
In reaching my decision, I need to decide the most appropriate, reasonable and fair solution 
for all parties concerned. NS&I acted upon information provided by Mr B. And while they 
couldve done more, Ive reflected any shortcoming by supporting the additional 
compensation of £50 offered by NS&I.Mr B has made it clear he has a good relationship with his relative. So, I dont think it would 
be appropriate to ask NS&I to take responsibility for recovering the prize money paid to that 
bank account. I think Mr B would be better placed to have that discussion. He may disagree, 
but Im not persuaded to ask NS&I to do anything more than Ive suggested in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
I require National Savings and Investments to pay £50 to Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman