DRN-3187018
The complaint
Mr W and Ms Y have complained about their home property insurer, Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited as they feel its settlement paid for damages caused by a fire which 
occurred in their garden was too low. They also think it caused delays in settling the claim.
What happened
In May 2020 there was a fire in the garden at Mr W and Ms Ys home. Lloyds asked them to 
provide a quote for repair  this was provided showing a price of £8,076.92 (£9,629.30 with 
VAT). And their excess was paid. Lloyds said it would review the costs for the work as the 
estimate seemed quite high. Given safety concerns presented by the damage, Mr W and 
Ms Y began repairing the garden. Lloyds then paid them £6,189.15. And when Mr W showed 
hed paid VAT, Lloyds paid him a further £1,237.83 as the VAT cost on the settlement 
amount it had paid (a total of £7,426.98).
Setting the VAT element aside, Lloyds established that Mr W and Ms Ys extra cost for work 
had been caused by the contractor charging more on account of the pandemic. The 
contractor had explained their costs were increased in part at least because of working 
regulations, which meant fewer workers attending any one job at any one time. Lloyds said it 
wasnt prepared to cover such costs and they wouldnt have been charged these by its 
contractors if it had done the work to reinstate the garden. Lloyds said it would have chosen 
to repair if Mr W and Ms Y hadnt started the work so quickly. But it paid £75 compensation 
to them as it accepted there had been some delays.
Mr W and Ms Y thought Lloyds had caused unreasonably delays and theyd needed to get 
the repairs done. They didnt feel it was fair that they were left with a shortfall of £2,265.32.
Our investigator felt Lloyds should make a further payment to Mr W and Ms Y to meet their 
full cost of repair, including VAT, plus interest*. And she said it should pay a further £125 
compensation as well.
  
Mr W indicated that he and Ms Y were pleased with the suggested outcome. Lloyds said it 
disagreed with it. In short Lloyds said Mr W and Ms Y had started work whilst knowing it still 
had to validate the costs claimed, and they had chosen to use their own contractor, forging 
ahead with the whole contract, not just make safe works. So, Lloyds explained, it had never 
had the chance to appoint its own contractors, which would have cost it less.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy in place here does not give Lloyds the option for settling claims in cash based on 
the cost to it of doing the work. So Lloyds cant reasonably insist on paying Mr W and Ms Y 
less than the cost they were charged. Only if I felt that Mr W and Ms Y had acted entirely 
unreasonably and totally in defiance of some very clear and very reasonable requests from 
Lloyds, might I be inclined to say Lloyds reduced settlement was fair. But I think this was a 
difficult time, with some urgent work needing attending to at Mr W and Ms Ys home, which 
Lloyds initially asked them to get quotes for rectifying. At no time during this early phase of 
the claim have I seen Lloyds tell them it would be interested in completing the work and that 
nothing more than make safe works should be done in the first instance.  
I also bear in mind the circumstances prevailing in the country at the time and that Mr W and 
Ms Y had a need to restrict and reduce the number of people attending their home. But also 
that contractors were subject to extra costs and restrictions as well. Lloyds hasnt shown me 
a fully broken down and costed scope of works or that its contractor took the pandemic 
restrictions into account when creating its cost for the works. And I do note that Lloyds 
policy does say it will cover extra costs arising from complying with other statutory 
requirements. 
All in all Im not persuaded that Lloyds settlement was fairly and reasonably made. So Im 
going to require it to pay the difference outstanding, plus 8% simple interest* per year from 
the date of the invoice for works until settlement is made.
I think the fact of the lower payment has likely been frustrating for Mr W and Ms Y. I also 
note, as accepted by Lloyds, there were some delay and communication issues during this 
complaint. I think that the fact of the poor claim handling by Lloyds likely exacerbated the 
frustration Mr W and Ms Y were caused when the low settlement offer was put to them. And 
I note Mr W said it had been a struggle for them to cover the additional costs Lloyds wouldnt 
pay. The interest Ive now awarded should help them with the financial impact they had  but 
I think further compensation is due to make up for the upset and worry they were caused. 
I think its fair and reasonable to say Lloyds should pay another £125 compensation to Mr W 
and Ms Y.
Putting things right
I require Lloyds to pay Mr W and Ms Y:
£2,265.32, plus 8% simple interest* per year from the date of the invoice for works until 
settlement is made, in full and final settlement of their claim for fire damage in their 
garden.
£125 as further and final compensation for the upset theyve been caused. 
*If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be 
provided to Mr W and Ms Y for HMRC purposes. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at putting things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman