DRN-4068378
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim made on her home 
insurance following an escape of water. 
Reference to Aviva includes its appointed agents and representatives.
What happened
Miss C had a home insurance policy with Aviva that covered her buildings and contents. In 
August 2021 a mains water pipe leak was discovered. Miss C reported it to Aviva, who 
appointed a surveyor. The pipe had been repaired by the end of the month.
A report was compiled in September 2021 which said the escape of water had spread under 
the entire timber suspended floor of the property. The walls closest to the leak were showing 
100% moisture when tested, and Miss C noticed mould growing on leather items. 
By the end of September 2021 a specialist drying company had installed equipment in the 
front two bedrooms. Shortly after Miss C said the property filled with a wet fog and she found 
water dripping from the underside of the radiators. She reported it to the drying contractor, 
but was told that was normal. A week later the contractor told Aviva the damp was far more 
extensive than first thought and requested a more specialist drying company be brought in. 
Air moisture level readings were taken periodically in these first few weeks, with fairly low 
amounts detected initially and the levels increasing by the final reading.
A second drying contractor started work at the end of October 2022, and Miss C says she 
was told by them the first company hadnt set up the equipment correctly. She complained 
mould had developed as a result of the property being left damp for weeks, which had made 
her unwell. Miss C also reported the theft of some cash from the house to the police, and 
believed the first drying contractor was the perpetrator. During a site meeting she told Aviva 
she had started staying with a neighbour, as she was worried the conditions in her home 
were making her ill. 
Following that meeting Aviva offered Miss C alternative accommodation (AA). But due to 
delays in sourcing somewhere suitable, and the incorrect furniture size being ordered, Miss 
C wasnt able to move into a rented property until the start of December 2021. In the 
meantime she had to move out of the place she was staying and find somewhere else at 
very short notice. Aviva offered to pay a disturbance allowance of £25 per day for the period 
she was without AA, but Miss C rejected that offer saying it didnt cover her out of pocket 
expenses. Aviva also said it would arrange for the second drying contractor to undertake a 
cleaning regime to ensure against any mould growth.
In November 2021 Avivas surveyor assessed the site in order to compile a scope of works. 
The report described minor mould growth appearing on the skirting boards, kitchen units and 
plinths, as well as the fitted wardrobe. It said if the proper cleaning regime been 
implemented there shouldnt be mould appearing now. 
Over the next couple of months Miss C says when she visited the property she noticed the 
drying machine wasnt working and displayed an error. She also questioned why there were 
so few machines in the property, and says she was told by the contractor they were all out 
on other jobs. In January 2022 Miss C instructed a report which said extensive further 
drying, with far more equipment was needed  yet Avivas drying contractor declared the 
property dry and issued the certificate two weeks later. Miss C says the meter still gave 
damp readings  but those were dismissed by the contractor as inaccurate.
Miss C appointed her own loss assessor (LA) to help with the claim, as she was struggling 
with her health. She disputed the drying certificate and said high moisture levels remained, 
but Aviva maintained the property was dry so the claim stalled. Miss C also issued a 
personal injury claim through her solicitors for the health problems she attributed to mould.
In April 2022 Aviva instructed another report, which returned damp readings throughout the 
house and elevated salt sample levels. From that Aviva concluded there was likely an 
underlying damp problem at the property, which it said needed to be sorted before any 
restoration work could begin. In response Miss C commissioned her own report in May 2022 
which found no evidence of an existing damp problem, with the damp proof course (DPC) 
still intact and in good condition. Her surveyor pointed to damp being localised around 
plaster that hadnt been removed during the initial drying process. A separate report into the 
mould level was also sent to Aviva, with high levels of airborne spores found in the bedroom.
Aviva maintained its position that the property had been dry in January 2022, and an existing 
problem had caused the damp to return. It therefore didnt consider it was responsible for the 
damage caused by exposure to damp conditions to the kitchen, boiler cupboard, carpets and 
wardrobe. Aviva also refuted the personal injury claim, on the grounds that the moisture 
readings taken in the property while Miss C was living there didnt suggest it was 
uninhabitable.
In August 2022 Miss C paid for another company to dry out the property  and a new 
certificate was issued after two weeks. After that the restoration work began, and the 
contents claim started to be assessed. Aviva authorised the cleaning of the belongings that 
had been in storage, and a lot was deemed beyond economic repair. The insurer eventually 
agreed to pay 75% towards the cost of replacing the kitchen (though not the other damaged 
fittings), and wanted to settle all the contents for £5,000  but Miss C didnt accept that offer. 
There was a dispute about a specific joist, with Avivas agent saying it could be repaired and 
Miss Cs surveyor concluding it needed to be replaced. To avoid delaying the claim further, 
Miss C paid for the replacement of the timber herself. There was also disagreement over 
whether tiles damaged in the bathroom by the last drying company, when they were 
removed as part of the drying process, should be covered by Aviva as part of the claim.
Aviva didnt send a response to a complaint, with referral rights to our service, due to the 
legal claim issued. But after contacting her MP, Miss C referred the matter to us. She was 
able to move back into her home in March 2023, but there still wasnt agreement on what 
should be covered under the insurance claim  and any legal action was stayed while our 
service investigated. 
An investigator here thought the complaint should be upheld. In her view the claim had been 
delayed significantly  with failings in the drying process, rather than an underlying damp 
problem, being the cause. Those failings had resulted in considerable stress and worry, over 
a sustained period, for Miss C  as shed been displaced from her home. The investigator 
thought £2,500 compensation was fair to recognise the substantial impact the mistakes in 
handling the claim had caused. She also recommended Aviva covered damage caused to 
Miss Cs kitchen, boiler cupboard, carpets, wardrobe, electrical sockets, and contents  by 
the prolonged exposure to damp conditions. There were other costs arising from the 
mistakes which the investigator believed should be reimbursed  including the loss 
assessors fees and the cost of any reports Miss C had instructed.
Aviva disagreed with the investigators opinion, and said it thought the report conducted in 
April 2022 was most persuasive. The insurer maintained the salt readings, and the property 
being damp again after being declared dry in January 2022, were indications of an 
underlying damp problem. Aviva also didnt believe it had caused delays.As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Miss Cs complaint  and for much the same reasons given 
by the investigator. Ive explained my rationale below, but before I do I want to acknowledge 
that Ive summarised events in my own words and in far less detail than whats been 
provided to me. If Ive not mentioned anything its not because I havent considered it  Ive 
carefully reviewed all the evidence submitted by both parties. Instead Ive focussed on the 
key elements of the timeline, and what I consider to be the crux of the complaint  in line 
with our remit as a quick and informal alternative to the courts. No discourtesy is meant by 
that, nor is it my intention to minimise in any way what Miss C went through. 
Miss C has stayed legal proceedings while she awaits our outcome  and any claim for 
personal injury (including other losses arising from it, like earnings) is better directed to the 
courts. I dont have the same remit as a court, which has the ability to properly interrogate 
any medical evidence (like calling expert witnesses). There are also recent snagging issues 
and queries over contents which arent included within the scope of this complaint. Anything 
not commented on in this decision would need to be directed to Aviva as a complaint in the 
first instance, along with any evidence Miss C has to support her claim. Thats so Aviva has 
the opportunity to set out its position in writing on whether it is prepared to cover them. Our 
service can then review those matters separately if no agreement can be reached. 
A claim of this nature, where restoration works were required to pretty much every room in 
the house, was always likely to be a very disruptive and stressful experience for Miss C. 
Ultimately the mains leak resulted in the conditions that gave rise to the claim. But Ive had 
decide what impact Aviva has caused over and above what might reasonably be expected, 
through its handling. Bearing that in mind, I consider there are three main questions for me 
to decide in reaching a fair conclusion to this dispute:
Do I find Aviva acted reasonably by concluding there was likely an underlying damp 
problem at the property?
How does the answer to that first question inform what should be covered by Aviva?
Were there any instances where the claim wasnt handled as it should have been by 
Aviva or its agents  and if so, what impact did that have on Miss C, and what does 
fair compensation look like in the circumstances?  
Evidence for an underlying damp issue
Aviva has pointed to comments in the initial report conducted by the first contractor as 
indications of an existing damp problem. Specifically it has said photos indicated that under 
the floorboards there was evidence of rot, and Aviva believe that suggests there was an 
underlying issue. But the September 2021 report says the joists and wall plate were 
saturated where there has been a lot of water on the floor void at some stage, and there 
were signs of wet rot (which has the potential to turn into dry rot). Ive found various sources 
online suggesting wet rot can set in after seven to ten days, so I dont think evidence of rot is 
necessarily a persuasive indication of an issue that pre-exists this escape of water. The 
September 2021 report also makes no such finding. 
Aviva says the surveyor stated at the time we have carried out a thermal imaging inspection 
and found that there is 100% readings to some of the area and some other areas 20% 
reading (but are quite far from the point of the EOW) so may be some underlying damp issues. I havent seen any evidence of that comment, other than the loss adjuster quoting it, 
and there is no mention of it in the surveyors report. But it seems logical to me that the walls 
further from the escape of water would contain lower readings. The statement also appears 
to be speculative, as it isnt backed up by any other specific supporting evidence. The 
surveyors actual report doesnt draw that conclusion either, so I dont find that statement 
persuasive in evidencing there was a pre-existing damp problem. 
The loss adjuster has also interpreted what the surveyor said in September 2021 about there 
being no clear visible damage (except to the bathroom floor), to mean there had been a 
breach of the damp proof course (DPC). In his view, that was the only way the moisture 
could have penetrated above ground level, particularly as there was no obvious residual 
damage to the floor to indicate water had been above it. But, again, the report instructed by 
Aviva doesnt make that finding  it just said the thermal images showed the damp tracking 
up the walls through capillary action at the base. Miss C has provided a surveyors report 
which said the DPC was found to be intact and in good condition, with no evidence 
dampness is penetrating or bridging it. That surveyor said in his opinion there is no reason 
for dampness to be present in the walls above DPC level other than as a result of the leaking 
pipe and the subsequent build-up of water in the sub-floor void. Miss C also provided a 
statement from a surveyor that visited the property a year before the escape of water, and 
he found no evidence of damp during his visit. 
Aviva has pointed to some other indicators, like rusty nails behind the skirting boards and 
some mould appearing on leather boots. I accept that screws being rusted indicates damp 
within the wall, but Im not persuaded that necessarily points to a pre-existing problem. By 
the time surveyor visited, water had travelled up the walls through capillary action and it was 
many weeks on from the leak. So there would have been time for rust to develop. I also dont 
think an isolated case of mould is particularly conclusive either  as the boots could have 
been wet from being outside, and then stored in a way (like in a cupboard) that promoted 
mould growth. Aviva has pointed to an email from Miss C, which it believes is an admission 
from her of an existing issue  but I havent interpreted it that way. All Miss Cs email says is 
she accepts that any pre-existing damp discovered during repairs would be outside of the 
scope of the claim. I dont consider that acceptance of what might be found should be read 
to imply some awareness on her part of an underlying issue  she, along with everyone else, 
just didnt know what might be uncovered when things were stripped back.
All of the above reasons put forward by Aviva are to my mind quite speculative, and I havent 
found them to be backed up with supporting evidence or indicative of there likely being a 
pre-existing damp problem. The main piece of expert evidence Aviva has relied on is the salt 
report compiled in April 2022. Those results indicated that all of the material sampled was 
dry with no free moisture. The report also gave the salt levels sampled from around the 
property, with most having none or trace amounts. But two (out of the six) samples returned 
low, moderate or heavy levels of chloride and nitrate. The appendix of the report explained 
that salts in masonry may arise from ground water and be present as a result of long term 
rising dampness  or could arise occasionally from other sources. 
I think its important to note that the report itself doesnt conclude theres likely to be rising 
damp at Miss Cs property  it talks in very general terms, and recognises there could be 
other reasons to explain the presence of salts in the masonry. Miss C lives in a coastal area, 
and higher levels of salts in the air can lead to increased amounts being absorbed into 
plaster. She also lives in a hard water area  so the tap water will likely naturally contain a 
higher level of dissolved salts too. However, no baseline readings for the levels of salts in 
either the walls or the tap water was included in the report commissioned by Aviva. That 
means the insurer has no idea whether those readings are in fact elevated. Also, given there 
was extensive flooding of the solum, it seems likely the leaked mains water mixed with the ground water anyway  which, again, would explain a salt presence if the walls were 
saturated for an extended period by that water. 
One last issue to consider is that the property was damp for so long, and became damp 
again after it was declared dry in January 2022. Aviva believes that indicates an existing 
damp problem, but I disagree. There appears to be differing opinions on whether the drying 
equipment was installed correctly initially (or indeed whether the correct equipment was 
used). Miss C says she was told by the second drying company the first one hadnt 
approached it correctly, and Aviva recorded in its claim notes that the meeting on site at the 
end of October 2021 was due to issues identified by [the new drying contractor]. But I 
havent seen anything directly from the second company explaining what it thought the first 
agent had done wrong, or anything from the first defending its actions. Aviva also referred 
things internally to its own technical manager, who thought the equipment evidenced in the 
photographs didnt need a separate dehumidifier. But, again, I havent got anything definitive 
from Aviva on what the right approach to drying out this property was. What we do know is 
the first specialist drying contractor said the job was too big for it, and requested a more 
specialist drying company be brought in to take over. 
Im sure a great deal of water was leaked under the property, but I havent been provided 
with anything from Aviva that persuades this was a particularly complex or unusual escape 
of water claim. So Ive seen no reason why a specialist drying company wouldnt have been 
able to handle the drying out of Miss Cs home, if approached correctly. Even if there was an 
underlying damp problem, and the problems later returned, it still ought to have been able to 
dry the property initially. The first contractors moisture readings show the damp situation 
was gradually worsening even after weeks of attempted invention. So those readings, 
coupled with its own admission it wasnt able to handle the task, persuade me that the first 
drying company Aviva instructed didnt do a satisfactory job. That resulted in the property 
being damp for five additional weeks by the time the second company took over.
It then took the second company a further 14 weeks of drying before it declared the property 
dry in January 2022. Ive not seen anything suggesting that the drying process was expected 
to take that long, or any explanation for why it did. Miss C said she returned to the property 
during this period to find the equipment displaying an error code, and queried why only one 
piece of drying equipment was present with the contractor. Thats supported by the 
surveyors report, commissioned by Miss C a couple of weeks before the drying certificate 
was issued  which said the property needed further intensive drying for another three 
weeks with substantially more equipment (including heaters) than was present. That didnt 
happen, yet the property was declared dry two weeks later. 
Aviva instructed a scope of works in November 2021, around three weeks after the second 
drying contractor had started. That report said that mould was beginning to appear in various 
places around the property, and that wouldnt be the case if surfaces had been properly 
sanitised. Due to Miss Cs concerns over there being mould in her home, Aviva said 
extensive fumigation would be the first thing its new contractor would do following the site 
visit in October 2021. So, the report in November 2022, combined with the length of time it 
took the second drying company to dry the property, ought to have been big red flags that 
the claim wasnt progressing as it should do. Meaning the insurer ought to have intervened a 
few weeks into the new contractors tenure, particularly given the failings of its first agent. 
The report Miss C provided in January 2022 really just confirmed what she had been telling 
Aviva  that the second company wasnt getting to grips with the drying out needed. A later 
report provided by Miss C, from My 2022, also showed that the highest damp readings were 
from plaster that ought to have removed during the first strip out (like from around the plug 
sockets)  again, suggesting a failure on the part of Avivas contractors. Im surprised then, 
given everything it knew, that Aviva accepted the property was dry at the end of January 
2022 (as Im not satisfied it was)  and I consider it made a mistake by doing so. Overall, Ive not found Avivas arguments that there was an underlying damp problem 
persuasive. Most of its points are speculative, and I consider the report provided by Miss Cs 
surveyor more persuasive, particularly when combined with the testimony of the one that 
visited the year before the claim. That expert report drew specific conclusions from 
supporting evidence about the causes of the damage in Miss Cs property  none of Avivas 
reports made such findings. She also later arranged for the property to be dried out by her 
own contractor, and that was achieved in two weeks  with no recurrence of damp. So, 
taking that into account along with everything Ive said above, I find that Avivas agents didnt 
satisfactorily dry the property, and caused it to be left damp for almost a year. 
What should be covered by Aviva 
Taking account of what Ive said above, I consider the mould that developed at the property 
was result of it being left damp for almost a year  and Ive decided that Aviva is responsible 
for that failing. Miss Cs home being damp for so long has also resulted in damage to 
contents, wooden fixtures and electrics. 
That means Aviva should cover the full cost of replacing the kitchen, as I consider its been 
damaged by the damp environment. The same goes for the boiler cupboard and wardrobe  
so the costs of replacing those should also be met by the insurer, because the damage to 
them resulted from Avivas mistakes. Considering the comments from the surveyors report 
in May 2022, that there was moisture present for almost a year in the plaster that should 
have been removed around the electrical sockets, Aviva should pay the cost to replace 
those. Miss Cs carpets should also be replaced by Aviva, as I consider its likely the damp 
environment which resulted in the damage to them.
Ive reviewed the damage to tiles and sanitaryware in the bathroom, and consider Aviva 
should settle those associated costs in full too. I accept it was caused by Miss Cs drying 
contractor, and Avivas permission wasnt sought before that work was undertaken. But I 
consider Aviva is liable for that work, as its contractors hadnt satisfactorily dried the 
property. Unfortunately the nature of tiles and sanitaryware means they can be damaged 
when removing, and Ive not seen anything to suggest their removal wasnt attempted 
carefully. Its a cost linked to the insured event that was covered under the policy, so I find 
the insurer should pay for the repairs. Aviva had the opportunity to organise the repairs or 
request alternative quotes, so it should now reimburse whatever Miss C paid for the work.
Miss C paid to have the property dried herself, and that ought to have been covered under 
her policy. Given I dont think it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude there was an 
underlying damp problem, and the failings of drying contractors I highlighted, I consider 
Aviva should reimburse those costs. Aviva should also pay the costs of all the reports and 
surveys Miss C instructed. I dont think any of those would have been necessary, but for 
Avivas failures on the claim. The insurer had enough from its own evidence and reports to 
determine works at the property werent being carried out correctly, and so ought to have 
stepped in. I dont think it would have been necessary for Miss C to employ a loss assessor 
either if the claim had been managed reasonably by Aviva  so it should reimburse her all of 
those costs too.
Miss C paid to have a particular joist replaced, and Ive considered what both parties have 
provided me in respect of that work.  Having done so Im not persuaded the joist couldnt 
have been repaired. Miss C decided to proceed with replacing it, and I understand her 
reasons for doing so. But I dont think Aviva are required to cover the cost of doing that, as it 
amounts to betterment if the joist was repairable (which it looks like it was). It then falls to 
Miss C to cover the betterment bit of that work, and Aviva to pay up to the amount that was 
covered under the policy. So, given Miss C has already paid for the replacement, Aviva should reimburse Miss C the estimated cost of repairing the joist it was liable for  so that 
she only covers the difference. 
Miss C should supply Aviva with proof of payment for anything Ive asked it to pay her back 
for. Any reimbursement payments Ive directed Aviva to make should have 8% simple 
interest yearly applied to them, to compensate Miss C for the time she was deprived of those 
funds. Interest should be calculated from the date Miss C paid them until the date Aviva 
refunds her. If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss C how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss C a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
As I mentioned at the outset there are lots of other aspects which havent been settled  
including the extent of Avivas liability for Miss Cs contents, and the more recent snagging 
issues. When considering those issues Aviva must bear in mind my findings in this decision 
(i.e. that her belongings were left for an extensive period in a damp environment). If damage 
has arisen as a result of the mistakes Ive highlighted, then the associated costs should be 
covered by Aviva irrespective of any policy limits. Miss C should formally submit her claim for 
anything that she believes the insurer should pay for as a result of its mistakes, along with 
other costs arising from the claim (like her electricity bills and council tax).
Miss C alleged that one of Avivas contractors stole money from her. She reported the matter 
to the police, and I believe they are best placed to deal with that allegation. Ive not seen 
enough to persuade me that Aviva are at fault in the matter and should reimburse Miss C 
what she says she lost. Aviva should, however, pay the £25 per day disturbance allowance it 
promised her during the site visit in October 2022, for the time she was without AA. I also 
think its fair that amount is deducted from the claim excess. Miss C has said that offer 
doesnt cover her costs during that period, but I havent been supplied anything to support 
that assertion. Its also a standard entitlement under the policy.  
That said, I dont think that amount covers the impact on Miss C of Avivas failings in respect 
of the arranging the AA. Whilst it rightly picked up that she was in a vulnerable position 
during the site visit in October 2022, it took almost six weeks to move her into a rental 
property. That seems to have been down to mistakes by Aviva in ordering the wrong size of 
furniture, and (according to the insurer) some delays in Miss C finding something suitable. 
However, Im holding Aviva accountable for the full period of delay. Thats because the 
insurer said it would have acted quicker if the situation was urgent, and I consider it was. 
Aviva knew she felt forced to stay with a neighbour due to her belief mould in the property 
was making her ill, and the insurer commented in its notes that the circumstances appeared 
to be affecting her mental health. Given Aviva acknowledged Miss Cs vulnerability and was 
aware of the precariousness of her living situation, it should have ensured she was rehoused 
far quicker than she was. Ive considered the impact of that mistake as part of my overall 
deliberations on compensation.
Putting things right
Based on the failings described above, Miss C was displaced from her home for around a 
year longer than she should have been. She also had to watch her home and possessions 
deteriorate gradually in a damp and mouldy environment. The stress of that affected Miss C 
significantly  and she has described at length the impact the claim has had on her health. 
Aviva has suggested that some of the delay was down to Miss C not agreeing to a way 
forward at certain points  but that was ultimately because she disagreed with the assertion 
there was an underlying damp problem, and Ive found she was right.I havent seen enough to say Aviva caused Miss C mould related health problems, and Ive 
already mentioned that any personal injury claim would be better suited to court. But Miss C 
was certainly worried that the conditions in her home were making her ill. Given what Ive 
said about the handling of the claim by the first contractor, I think that was a legitimate 
concern  and Aviva is responsible for that distress. So, whilst I cant say Aviva is entirely 
responsible for all the health problems Miss C has sadly had to deal with, it has certainly 
contributed to them  by causing her substantial amounts of added stress and disruption to 
her life over a prolonged period. Added to that is all of the time taken in dealing with the 
claim, over the period it should have concluded  though I accept she had help with that 
after a certain point, from the loss assessor.
Ive also thought about the period Miss C was effectively homeless, before the AA could be 
sorted  where she had to stay with various people. I know Aviva believes the property was 
habitable at that point, based on air moisture readings, but Miss C was extremely worried for 
her health. Ive said Aviva are accountable for that concern, due to the handling of the claim 
up until that point by its agent. So I dont think returning to her property was viable, and Ive 
already explained why I consider swifter action was needed from Aviva during this period.
The effect of Avivas mistakes on Miss C has unfortunately been particularly severe in this 
case. Ive considered our published guidance on making awards for distress or 
inconvenience, and I find the description and examples for our second highest award range 
(covering compensation of up to £5,000) commensurate with the impact Aviva are 
accountable for. Taking stock of everything, Ive decided £2,500 is the fair amount required 
to put right the distress caused to Miss C. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Miss Cs complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited, and direct 
the insurer to:
reimburse all the costs, plus 8% simple interest, as Ive directed in my decision 
above; and 
pay Miss C £2,500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, less 
any amount it has already paid her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman