DRN-4378752
The complaint
Mr P complains about poor customer service and delay by U K Insurance Limited (trading as 
Churchill Car Insurance) (UKI) in replacing his car windscreen after he claimed on his car 
insurance policy.
UKI is the underwriter of Mr Ps policy, so its his insurer. This complaint is, in part, about 
the actions of one of UKIs agents. As UKI has accepted its accountable for the actions 
of its agents, any reference to UKI in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
On 21 June 2023, Mr P made a claim for a new windscreen on his car insurance policy, his 
existing one having developed a crack.
Mr P wanted his windscreen replaced with one made with Original Equipment Manufacturer 
(OEM) glass. UKI refused. Mr P has a separate complaint with us about UKIs refusal to 
supply OEM glass, so I wont be looking at that issue in this decision.
Following UKIs refusal to supply an OEM glass windscreen, Mr P decided to pay for this 
himself. UKI quoted him a price of £688.73. But subsequently Mr P was told hed have to 
pay an additional £252.75 on top of this (£137.75 in VAT for the OEM glass plus £115 for his 
policy excess), bringing the total cost of his new windscreen to £941.48. Mr P was unhappy 
about this and about the number of times he had to contact UKI to query the price difference. 
So he complained to UKI about it. 
On 30 June, UKI responded to Mr Ps complaint, saying its repairer had given it incorrect 
price information (that is, the price of £688.73), which it had then passed on to Mr P. UKI 
apologised for this, paid Mr P £50 in compensation for the time hed spend trying to resolve 
the issue and said its repairer would waive the VAT on the OEM glass.
On 12 July, when Mr P took his car to the repairer to have the windscreen replaced, it didnt 
have the correct OEM glass  so the appointment couldnt go ahead. Mr P was very 
unhappy about this, having already paid for the OEM glass and taken time off work for the 
appointment. He then spent time sorting out a new appointment for the windscreen 
replacement (which I believe happened on 21 July). So Mr P complained to UKI about the 
failed appointment.
On 21 July, UKI responded to Mr Ps complaint. It said there was no justification for the OEM 
glass not being there for Mr Ps appointment. It apologised to Mr P for any upset this had 
caused him and for the time hed had to spend on the phone sorting things out. UKI also 
paid Mr P £200 in compensation for the poor service hed had.
On 27 July, UKIs repairer also responded to Mr Ps complaint about its handling of his 
windscreen replacement. It apologised that Mr P was given incorrect information about the 
cost of the OEM glass and agreed to waive the VAT of £137.75. It also apologised for its 
poor communication and for the failed appointment of 12 July. For this, as a gesture of 
goodwill, the repairer refunded Mr P his policy excess of £115.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr P brought his complaint about the quote for the repair costs 
and the failed appointment to us. The investigator who looked at it didnt uphold it. He 
agreed Mr P had had a very poor customer journey. But he also thought the compensation 
UKI had paid Mr P of £250, together with waiving the VAT and refunding the policy excess, 
was fair and reasonable.
Mr P disagrees. Among other things, he says the incorrect information UKI staff gave him 
means it should pay in full for his replacement windscreen. So Mr Ps complaint has come to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Under rules and guidance made by the financial services regulator, The Financial Conduct 
Authority, insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So I must take these rules and 
guidance into account when deciding whether UKI has treated Mr P fairly and reasonably.
UKI accepts Mr P was given incorrect information about the total cost of replacing his 
windscreen. It also accepts his first windscreen replacement appointment couldnt go ahead 
because the repairer hadnt got the necessary OEM glass. These are clear failings and I 
think UKI has acted fairly and reasonably in accepting them as such.  
When there have been failings like these by a financial business, our role isnt to punish that 
business. Instead, its to recognise the impact the failings have had on its consumer in a way 
thats fair to the consumer and the business.
There are times when we all experience inconvenience in our everyday lives and it isnt 
unusual to feel some frustration and annoyance when dealing with a financial business. But 
from the evidence Ive seen, the impact on Mr P of the failings Ive identified by UKI is more 
than Id expect someone ordinarily to experience in getting a windscreen replaced under 
their car insurance policy. 
Mr P describes spending many hours on numerous phone calls to UKI and its agents to 
resolve the issue of how much his replacement windscreen was going to cost him  and he 
also refers to sending messages and emails. In addition, there was the failed appointment, 
which inconvenienced Mr P further and delayed him getting his car back on the road. I think 
these things caused Mr P significant inconvenience and disruption that took a lot of effort for 
him to sort out. Mr P also refers to increased levels of stress, anxiety, worry and insomnia. 
So I think the failings Ive described by UKI also caused Mr P considerable distress, upset 
and worry.
But to compensate Mr P for these specific failings, UKI has already paid him £250 in 
compensation. And the VAT on his new windscreen has been waived and his policy excess 
of £115 refunded (meaning Mr P has ended up paying the amount he originally expected for 
his new windscreen of £688.73). I think these actions by UKI are in line with the approach 
wed expect it to take to compensate Mr P for the significant inconvenience and considerable 
distress its caused him. That means that, in relation to the specific complaint points Ive 
looked at in this decision, I dont think UKI has treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman