DRN-2425545
The complaint
Mr W complains Bamboo Limited trading as Bamboo Loans shouldnt have approved him as 
a guarantor for a loan taken out by a third party (the borrower). Mr W says Bamboo Loans 
didnt do enough to ensure the borrower was in a position to repay the loan, and it has failed 
to protect him from the liability of being a guarantor. 
What happened
Bamboo approved the borrower for the below loan, which Mr W acted as a guarantor for:
Date Taken Capital Amount Term Monthly Repayment
October 2018 £2,000 18 months £150.59
Mr W complained Bamboo Loans shouldve done more to ensure that the borrower was 
credit worthy before approving the loan. Mr W also says since the beginning of the loan he 
has struggled to meet the repayments when they became due.
Bamboo Loans says it has acted reasonably when handling Mr Ws complaint. It says it 
completed the necessary checks on the borrower, and Mr W before lending. It says it also 
gave Mr W all of the necessary information before he agreed to become the guarantor. It 
says it has acted in line with the terms of the agreement Mr W has entered into.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She felt Bamboo Loans had 
demonstrated it completed sufficient checks on the borrower. She also felt Mr W was able to 
afford the loan in the event he would be required to make payments.
Mr W responded to her assessment disagreeing. He clarified his argument was centred on 
the checks that Bamboo Loans had completed on the borrower. Mr W says that had Bamboo 
Loans completed sufficient checks it wouldve seen the borrower was not creditworthy and 
as such it wouldve notified Mr W of this. And at this point Mr W would not have agreed to act 
as the borrowers guarantor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W initially complained to our service about a number of concerns that he had with 
Bamboo Loans handling of his complaint. Our investigator considered these arguments in 
their initial assessment and did not recommend it be upheld. Mr W has since come back to 
our service to clarify his complaint point. He has told us his complaint centres on the checks 
which Bamboo Loans completed on the borrower. As such Ive considered Mr Ws complaint 
in line with this response.
Mr W says Bamboo Loans did not do enough to protect him from the borrower. He says the 
borrower concealed their financial circumstances from him; and had he known the true 
extent of the situation he would not have agreed to be a guarantor. Mr W says because 
Bamboo Loans did not complete thorough enough checks it has acted unfairly.
Ive carefully considered this argument but ultimately, I disagree that Bamboo Loans has 
acted unfairly in this matter. Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible 
and unaffordable lending as well as the key rules, regulations and we consider to be good 
industry practice on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ws 
complaint.
Bamboo Loans is required to complete reasonable and proportionate checks on the 
borrower before approving any loan it decides to lend. The relevant rules dont set out which 
specific checks it has to complete for them to be reasonable and proportionate. But relevant 
checks could include things such as a customers income (over the full term of the loan), and 
their outgoing expenses. These checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the 
amount of credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments 
and total length of the term. 
Bamboo Loans has provided our service with the information of which checks it completed 
on the borrower, as well as supplying some supporting information. Bamboo Loans says it 
completed an income and expenditure check on the borrower as well as searching the 
borrowers credit file. It says after completing these checks it demonstrated that the borrower 
had the sufficient disposable income to meet the required payments.
Ive considered this argument and whilst I dont entirely agree with Bamboo Loans position 
that the checks were proportionate; Ive also not been presented with any information which 
would demonstrate that on balance Bamboo Loans shouldnt have lent to the borrower.
I say this because, whilst the checks demonstrate that the borrower mayve had some issues 
with managing credit in the past, his declared income and expense demonstrate there would 
be sufficient income to meet his current credit commitments. Namely because the checks 
highlighted the borrowers existing debt levels and commitments, and the declared income 
was sufficient to cover the repayments. 
Bamboo Loans is entitled to rely on the information it is provided by the borrower unless 
there is evidence which demonstrates this is incorrect. Looking at the evidence Ive been 
provided with I cant say there is sufficient information to say that Bamboo Loans shouldnt 
have lent based on what it saw. 
Mr W says the borrower concealed information from him, and Bamboo Loans shouldve 
done more to protect him. Whilst Ive no reason to doubt what Mr W says in relation to the 
borrower, I cant also say Bamboo Loans acted unfairly if the borrower also concealed 
information from it too. Ultimately Bamboo Loans is required to carry out proportionate 
checks on the borrower, and as Ive explained above, whilst I may not entirely agree with 
Bamboo Loans stance, I cant say it was presented with any information which ought to 
have made it realise the borrower mayve been concealing information too. 
So, it follows that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above. I 
appreciate this is not the outcome Mr W wanted, but Ive carefully considered all of the 
information he has provided. Mr W has mentioned he is struggling to meet some of the 
commitments of the loan. Id like to remind Bamboo Loans of its ongoing obligation to 
exercise forbearance in light of Mr Ws circumstances. I note in this regard, Bamboo has 
confirmed it has removed Mr Ws details from the loan.   My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman