DRN-2313366
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr G complain about Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) regarding its decision to 
decline their claim for sofa cleaning. 
What happened
Mr G and Mrs A purchased their sofa around September 2017. With it, they purchased 
insurance against accidental damage and staining.  
In June 2019, Mrs A and Mr G submitted a claim to Amtrust for their sofa to be cleaned.
They provided the required documentation and set out in their claim form that damage from 
water / beverage stains and grease mark had occurred to 4 seat cushions, 1 head back 
and a sofa arm. In the section of the claim form which asked How did this happen? they 
answered spilt drinks? and marks. 
Amtrust began processing their claim and tried to contact Mrs A and Mr G. 
Mr G contacted Amtrust to chase progress of the claim. The agent from Amtrust asked for 
clarification on what stains had occurred. Mr G confirmed that the stains had appeared over 
time and would not come off using the product that they had purchased with the sofa at the 
time of purchase. 
The agent from Amtrust advised that the staining would not be covered as the policy was for 
accidental damage and did not cover staining built up over time. Mr G was unable to detail 
when the damage and stains had occurred and asked that Amtrust speak to Mrs A.
Amtrust declined Mrs A and Mr Gs claim. It referred them to the policy terms. 
Mr G and Mrs A were unhappy and complained. Amtrust sent its final response in July 2019, 
maintaining its decision to decline their claim. 
Mr G and Mrs A commissioned an expert report, which concluded that there was a fault in 
the fabric. The retailer of the sofa has subsequently replaced the sofa. 
Mr G and Mrs A contacted us. They felt that the insurance protection they had purchased 
had been of no value and they wanted a refund of their premiums. They also felt that they 
had received a poor customer service. 
One of our investigators has looked into this complaint and set out her view to the parties. 
This was that Amtrust had acted reasonably when it declined their claim, and so she did not 
ask Amtrust to do anything further. 
Mrs A and Mr G did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs A and Mr G feel strongly about this matter and feel that they have 
been poorly treated by Amtrust in declining their claim. They believed that they were entitled 
to a professional clean of the sofa.
As my colleague has explained, the role of this service is to look at whether a financial 
business has acted fairly and reasonably towards a consumer. This will usually include being 
upfront about what it will and will not do, and providing clear information about what has 
been agreed between the consumer and the business. 
In this case, Mr G and Mrs A purchased insurance to protect their sofa from spillage and 
staining through accidental damage. This sort of cover is not intended to be a cleaning 
contract, but as a protection if something happens to the sofa. The policy makes clear in its 
terms that it does not extend to wear and tear, or anything which happens gradually or over 
a substantial period of time, or by the accumulation of multiple stains.
Mr G and Mrs A noticed stains on their sofa and notified Amtrust. At that time, they did not 
describe an accident, or the circumstances of a particular spillage, which had resulted in a 
particular stain. Their initial claim appears to have reported general staining through multiple 
minor spillages or the accumulation of stains, in multiple locations on the sofa. The staining 
described appears to be the type of ordinarily occurring wear and tear which is excluded 
from the cover. 
This was then confirmed when Mr G spoke with the agent of Amtrust, when he confirmed 
that the staining had occurred over time. 
Mrs A later retracted this and explained that the stains had occurred within the past fortnight, 
but did not give details of the incidents that caused the marks. 
On this basis, I think Amtrust was not unreasonable when it declined the claim, even without 
having been to look at the sofa. The evidence before it was that the damage was of the sort 
which was not covered by the policy. 
Mrs A and Mr G subsequently obtained an independent report which concluded, on the basis 
that Mrs A and Mr G had reported no spillages had occurred, that there must be a fault in the 
sofa fabric. Mr G and Mrs A asked if this report affected the reasonableness of Amtrust not 
to provide a professional clean of the sofa. I do not consider that it changes anything as the 
policy also excludes product faults with the furniture and so a fault with the fabric would not 
have been covered. 
I am pleased, however, that Mr G and Mrs A appear to have reached a solution with the sofa 
retailer, by the replacement of the sofa. 
Mr G and Mrs A want a refund of their payments towards the insurance policy because they 
do not think they have benefitted from the cover. I do not agree as they did receive 
insurance protection against the perils covered by the policy for the period of their payments. 
Overall, I agree with the investigators view that Amtrust has not done anything wrong in this 
case, and I do not uphold the complaint. 
I realise that this will be disappointing to Mr G and Mrs A, but I hope it explains clearly why I 
have reached it. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs A and Mr Gs complaint, and do not ask 
Amtrust Europe Ltd to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman