DRN-1512648
 
The complaint
Miss P says Elevate International Credit Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly 
lent to her. Miss P has said that Sunny couldnt have undertaken suitable checks on her 
financial circumstances. If it had it would have seen she was reliant upon short-term lending 
and had got into a spiral of debt. 
What happened
This complaint is about six short-term loans Sunny provided to Miss P between July and 
October 2017. Miss Ps borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 10/07/2017 26/09/2017 6 £500.00
2 12/07/2017 13/07/2017 6   £50.00
3 15/07/2017 26/09/2017 6 £150.00
4 17/07/2017 26/09/2017 6 £200.00
5 01/08/2017 26/09/2017 6 £150.00
6 01/10/2017 12/05/2018 6 £850.00
 
The second of our adjudicators who reviewed complaint partially upheld it and thought the 
loans from loan five onwards shouldnt have been given. They also said that only the 
adverse information about loans five and six should be removed from Miss Ps credit file and 
not all information.
Miss P thought that the lending from loan three shouldnt have been given but was willing to 
accept the adjudicators findings with the exception that all of the information about loans five 
and six should be removed from her credit file. Not just adverse information. 
Sunny disagreed but did offer to uphold the complaint for loan six. Miss P wasnt willing to 
accept the offer. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss P could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Miss P could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
As Miss P was willing to accept the adjudicators assessment about loans one to four, I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. But the loans were part of the borrowing relationship Miss P had with 
Sunny. So, it is something I will take into account when considering the other loans she took. Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ps complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
I do think Miss Ps borrowing pattern would suggest that she was having problems managing 
her money and Sunny should have reconsidered whether it should still have lent to her when 
she applied for loan five. Miss P took the first four loans in very quick succession  a total of 
£900 within seven days. 
I know that Sunny allows its customers to take more than one loan at any one time. It says 
this allows its customers the flexibility to manage their finances. But I think this could equally 
be an indication that a customer is struggling with their finances. Miss P repaid the smallest 
loan  loan two for £50  but returned two weeks later for more borrowing at loan five. So, at 
that point loans one, three, four and five would need servicing. So, I agree with the 
adjudicator on this point.
And I also note the total monthly repayments of loans one and three to five accounted for 
around three quarters of Miss Ps recorded monthly disposable income leaving her with 
around £100 per month for the following five months if the loans had run to their agreed 
term. I dont think it reasonable to assume that Miss P would not have some unexpected 
expenditure during the following five months. So, I would say this borrowing was 
unsustainable as I think it likely that Miss P would have to reborrow in order to make the 
repayments or pay for other outgoings  which did in fact happen two months later when she 
returned to borrow a much larger sum of £850.
Miss P has told us that she was persistently reliant upon short-term lending and as a result 
all the information about loans five and six is adverse and should be removed from her credit 
file. While I appreciate that the higher amount borrowed at loan six may suggest that she 
was becoming reliant upon short-term borrowing, I dont think a sufficient enough pattern 
had developed for me to conclude the same. All of the borrowing was within a short time 
period of within three months which I dont think is a long enough time to show me Miss P 
was persistently reliant upon this type of lending. 
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans five and six and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss P paid on five and six;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loans five and six from Miss Ps credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Miss Ps complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman