DRN-1934539
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Leeds Building Society (LBS) mis-sold them mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) with their mortgage.
What happened
In 2006 Mr and Mrs E took out a mortgage with LBS. At the same time they were sold an 
MPPI policy to protect their mortgage payments. The policy was taken in Mr Es name only 
and wouldve covered his repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness 
or if he lost his job. A successful claim on the policy wouldve covered repayments for up to 
12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought the policy wouldve 
been presented as optional, that the policy provided a suitable benefit and that there was no 
evidence they had lost out from buying the policy. 
Mr and Mrs E disagree. They say they werent told the full limitations of the policy, it provided 
inadequate cover and was unfit for purpose. 
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
LBS had to make it clear the policy was optional and that Mr and Mrs E chose to take it. Mr 
and Mrs E say this wasnt done but they havent given much detail about why they thought 
this, which I think is understandable as the policy was sold a while ago. So to help me reach 
my decision Ive also looked at what the documents from the time show.
Ive seen a copy of the statement of needs completed by the mortgage advisor. The 
information recorded here suggests that Mr and Mrs E spent some time discussing their 
circumstances and whether they wished to arrange cover to protect their mortgage 
payments. Within the demands and needs document I can see that MPPI is recommended 
for Mr E and that there wasnt a home insurance product that was suitable for their needs. 
LBS have also given us a copy of Mr and Mrs Es mortgage offer and key facts illustration. I 
can see under the section headed Insurance in both documents it says they do not need to 
take out any insurance through LBS. Just below this is the heading Optional insurance and 
it lists the insurance and monthly cost of the MPPI Mr and Mrs E have chosen to take out. 
I think these documents present MPPI as optional and I think given the importance of the 
financial commitment Mr and Mrs E were making they wouldve read these documents and 
understood they had a choice in taking out MPPI. 
And I think only Mr E was covered by MPPI because I can see that Mrs E was working less 
than 16 hours a week at the time which would have made her ineligible for cover under the 
terms and conditions of the policy. This suggests to me that time was spent discussing their 
circumstances so they could make the appropriate choices about cover.
LBS advised Mr and Mrs E to take out the MPPI. What this means is that LBS not only had 
to provide information about MPPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs 
E could make an informed choice about buying MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it was 
to recommend MPPI that the policy was suitable to their needs and circumstances.
I dont know if LBS did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy overall was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr E for the following reasons:
He was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim. 
At the time of the sale Mr E says he was entitled to some sick pay but they had no 
other means they could rely on if he couldnt work. A successful claim on the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and for potentially longer. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs E in their 
circumstances especially considering they were taking on a significant and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications if they were unable to meet their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.  
I note that Mr E says that the cover was inadequate as the policy benefit didnt cover 
the full monthly mortgage payment when their mortgage rate went up. The policy 
benefit was £560 and at the start of the mortgage their payments were less than this. 
It was Mr and Mrs Es responsibility going forward to increase their cover as their 
financial circumstances changed. 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to them at the time. 
And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy they could cancel it. 
I also need to consider whether LBS gave Mr and Mrs E information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out.
I can see the cost of the policy was clear from the key facts illustration and mortgage offer. 
But I dont know if LBS gave all the proper information as it shouldve. But even if there were 
problems with the information and advice, for the same reasons that the policy was suitable 
and based on what Mr and Mrs E have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think 
they wouldve still taken out the MPPI policy given the proper information. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs E say that they were charged MPPI premiums for the first three months 
of the mortgage when the policy was meant to be free for this period. I have looked at the 
mortgage statement carefully and can see that their mortgage commenced in August 2006 
and that there was a charge for MPPI on 1 December 2006 for £122.52. I think this charge 
was for the three months following the initial free period. So I dont think they have been over charged which means Mr and Mrs E arent worse off as 
a result of any wrong doing by LBS.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint against Leeds 
Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman