DRN-4223893
The complaint
Ms K has complained about claim delays caused by AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) under a 
home insurance policy.
References to AXA include companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Ms K contacted AXA to make a claim when sewage water entered her home. AXA accepted 
the claim and took steps such as drying the property. Ms K later complained because she 
said there were delays with progressing the claim. AXA agreed there had been some minor 
delays and offered £75 compensation.
Ms K later complained again as she said one of AXAs contractors hadnt replied for months 
when she contacted it. She said it also originally wouldnt agree to pay a quote she provided 
for the work to be carried out. But a few months later agreed to pay the amount she had 
requested. When AXA replied, it accepted there had been delays. It offered £125 
compensation.
When Ms K complained to this service, our investigator said AXA didnt need to do anything 
further. He said there had been some minor delays and the £200 compensation AXA offered 
was appropriate in the circumstances.
As Ms K didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require AXA to do anything further. I will explain why.
Ms K complained about the length of time it took to progress her claim and for AXA to settle 
it. So, Ive looked at what happened. I can see that soon after the claim was first registered 
in June, AXAs contractor visited and drying also started. Ms K then had to chase a couple of 
times to get the outcome of the reinstatement survey and to get a payment for electricity. 
From what Ive seen, these were fairly short delays.
Shortly after this, AXA made an offer to cash settle the claim. Ms K didnt think the offer 
would cover the cost of the works. AXA provided the scope of works and discussion seemed 
to take place between Ms K and AXAs contractor. Ms K then got quotes from her own 
contractors for the work. It seemed to take several weeks for Ms K to obtain her own quotes.
As Ms K didnt agree with the cash settlement amount offered, I think it was reasonable that 
AXA said she could provide her own quotes. I also think it was reasonable that AXA wanted 
more than one quote and that it queried aspects of the quotes where it wanted more 
information or to understand the costs in more detail.
As agreement couldnt then be reached on the amount of a cash settlement, Ms K asked 
AXA to do the work. AXA said the work wouldnt be able to start for about a month, at the 
earliest. I can understand Ms K didnt want to wait several weeks for the work to start. 
However, I wouldnt expect an insurer necessarily to have a contractor immediately 
available. Im aware part of Ms Ks concern was that the Christmas period was approaching 
and she hoped to be home before this. Im mindful this would also often affect the availability 
of contractors. Having thought about this, overall, I dont think the wait time AXA gave for the 
work to start was unreasonable in the circumstances. AXA offered £75 compensation, which 
I think was fair.
Ms K complained again about the lack of contact from AXAs contractor. AXA accepted the 
contractor hadnt been in contact when it should have been and that this had caused delays. 
It seems Ms Ks complaint might have been what prompted the contractor to make contact 
with her, including to offer a cash settlement. Although Im aware Ms K seems to be of the 
view that as the amount offered was in line with one of her quotes, this could have been 
offered several months earlier. Im not persuaded this was the case. As Ive already said, I 
think what happened with the quotes was reasonable at that time. The circumstances were 
then reviewed again, prompted by the lack of contact by the contractor. This also seemed to 
include the contractor revisiting all the costs involved because Ms K wanted a cash 
settlement, even if this was reluctantly, and, in the circumstances, it decided it would match 
Ms Ks quote. AXA also offered Ms K £125 compensation. Having looked at what happened, 
I think that was reasonable.
I can understand Ms K was concerned by the amount of time her claim took to deal with, 
particularly as she moved out of her home while the claim was ongoing. Im aware Ms K was 
paid disturbance allowance, which is designed to cover reasonable additional costs while 
someone is away from their home. Looking at the claim itself, from what Ive seen there were 
some avoidable delays. I think AXA has offered fair compensation for these. As a result, I 
dont require AXA to do anything further in relation to these complaints.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that AXA Insurance UK Plc doesnt need 
to do anything further in relation to these complaints.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman