DRN-3259026
The complaint
Mr H complains that Derry Credit Union (DCU) used shares that were transferred to him 
following the death of a family member to repay an outstanding loan balance. 
What happened
Mr Hs family member had an account with DCU. The family member had nominated Mr H to 
receive shares from their account up to the maximum limit in the event of their death. When 
the family member died in September 2020, Mr H expected the value of the shares to be 
paid to him in its entirety. The maximum limit at that time was £10,000.
DCU transferred £10,000 to Mr H, but said he owed it £7,819.74 in respect of a loan he had 
taken out in November 2000, DCU paid him £2,180.26 and used the rest to clear what it said 
was Mr Hs outstanding loan balance. 
Mr H complained to DCU. He disputed the loan balance and said the loan would have been 
cleared with a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy because he had a long-term 
illness. He said DCU had not made any attempts to collect the debt it alleged he owed and 
Mr H considered it to be statute barred. Mr H told DCU that he was unable to distribute the 
£10,000 in shares to others, which was what his family member wanted him to do.  
DCU rejected the complaint. It said Mr H had made a PPI claim, but the claim had been 
rejected by the insurer. It did not accept the loan was statute barred. DCU said that when 
Mr H took the loan out in November 2002, he agreed that all shares he held in DCU then or 
in the future could be used as security to repay the loan. 
DCU said it had contacted Mr H by letter and telephone on 15 and 25 occasions respectively 
to chase payments.  It also passed the matter to a debt collection agency, but the agency 
had returned the debt. 
Mr H then complained to this service. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld.  He didnt think DCU had broken any rules and that it was fair for shares to be used 
to clear the loan balance. 
Mr H did not accept our adjudicators view. He did not accept the evidence DCU had 
provided and said it was fabricated. From the information held on file, I can see Mr H has 
been in correspondence with the PPI insurer.  The matter has now been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the death of Mr Hs family member and I can appreciate it has been 
stressful for Mr H to pursue this complaint in those circumstances. However, after giving the 
issues he raised some careful thought, I havent upheld the complaint. Ill explain why below. 
I can see Mr H raised several issues in respect of the PPI insurance company. Just to be 
clear, I cannot consider the actions of the insurer in this complaint about DCU. The insurer is 
a separate business and I havent been made aware of a complaint made by Mr H about the 
insurer. 
I can also see that Mr H believes the alleged outstanding balance to be statute barred. I 
cant decide whether a debt is legally enforceable  only a court can do that. The 
overarching question for me is whether DCU acted fairly in how it dealt with the situation 
here.   
The first thing I have considered is whether I can rely on the information DCU gave us. Mr H 
says it was fabricated. 
Having considered the evidence before me, I am satisfied it is not fabricated. A number of 
the documents DCU provided to us were from the time Mr H took the loan out, such as the 
loan agreement and the promissory note. The information DCU provided is also consistent 
with the information Mr H gave us, in particular the letter of 11 June 2002 that he provided 
showing an outstanding loan balance. The references to the PPI claim in DCUs notes are 
also consistent with what Mr H told us about the timing of that claim. 
I know Mr H feels strongly that DCU did not contact him about the outstanding debt, but I 
have seen evidence of multiple calls and letters in which DCU tried to contact him and of the 
specific resulting telephone conversations. So I think the evidence here shows that there 
was an outstanding amount and that DCU had actively pursued Mr H about this and 
expected him to pay back what was outstanding. It follows that I think the information DCU 
provided to us is reliable. 
Mr H told us that as DCU had used some of the transferred shares to clear his loan, he was 
not able to share the £10,000 with others as his family member had wanted. I have seen a 
copy of the nomination form the family member completed on 30 April 2019. I can see that 
Mr H was nominated to receive the shares personally up to the maximum limit. I understand 
that the limit at the relevant time was £10,000. There was an option for other nominees to be 
added, but I havent seen any evidence to suggest that they were. 
With that in mind, I am satisfied that in transferring the shares up the maximum value to Mr 
H, DCU acted in accordance with the instructions it was given by the family member.  
As the shares were appropriately transferred to Mr H, Ive next looked at whether DCU 
treated him fairly in using the shares to repay the outstanding loan balance. Mr H disputed a 
number of issues around the loan, which I have considered. 
Having done so, I have concluded that Mr H took a loan with DCU out on 2 November 2000 
for £9,840.46. Some of the borrowing was used to repay an existing DCU loan and pay for 
the PPI policy. It looks as though £1,000 was paid to Mr H directly. He made two loan 
repayments of £330 and £400 respectively. I havent seen evidence of any other payments 
made by Mt H. Mr H provided a letter to us showing that DCU wrote to him on 11 June 2002 
to say the outstanding loan balance was £7,981.26. 
With that in mind, I think Mr H would have known he hadnt made all of the contractual 
repayments. So, he would have been aware there was an outstanding amount left to pay 
DCU despite the length of time that had passed since he applied for the loan. 
DCU provided us with a promissory note, which was completed and signed by Mr H around 
the time he applied for the loan. That document states that Mr H agreed that all his shares 
and future shares could be used by DCU as security for his loan. This is in bold type and I 
think Mr H would have seen it at the relevant time and been aware that shares he acquired 
later could be used to repay the loan. 
I know that Mr H says he had a medical condition and thinks that the loan should have been 
repaid by the PPI policy. But Mr H also told us the claim was unsuccessful. Although I 
appreciate he is now in correspondence with the insurer, I cant say DCU shouldnt take 
steps to recover the outstanding loan when the PPI claim had failed. I said above that I cannot decide whether a debt is legally enforceable. But I have 
considered the length of time thats passed between Mr H taking the loan out and DCUs 
decision to use his shares to repay the outstanding balance. 
Ive said the shares were correctly transferred to Mr H. I said above that DCU did try and 
contact Mr H about the outstanding balance and that he would have known about it. Despite 
the time thats passed, I cant say it was unfair for DCU to use Mr Hs shares to repay the 
loan he had borrowed but had not paid back. 
Putting all of this together then, the shares from the family member were left to Mr H 
personally and DCU followed the family members instructions to transfer those shares to 
him. Mr H had an outstanding loan balance with DCU that he would have known about. 
Although he made a PPI claim, he was aware no payments had been made in respect of 
that policy. When Mr H took the loan out, DCU made him aware that if he acquired shares in 
the credit union at a future date, they could be used as security for the loan. Thats ultimately 
what happened here, so it follows that I think DCU acted fairly. 
I know Mr H feels strongly that DCU should not have used the shares to repay the 
outstanding balance on his loan. But for the reasons set out above, I think that DCU did act 
fairly and so I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Derry Credit Union.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman