DRN-1505391
The complaint
Mrs V is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim under a group income protection insurance 
policy which she had the benefit of.
What happened
In April 2018, Mrs V became absent from work, and was signed off by her GP with stress 
related illness. She had the benefit of a group income protection policy (the policy) through 
her then employer, which can pay out a portion of her income after shed been off work sick 
for 26 weeks (the deferred period). 
Mrs V wasnt signed off sick by her GP from 12 September to 17 November 2018; rather her 
then employer granted her paid leave during this period whilst measures were put in place to 
allow a phased return to work for her. Mrs V returned to work on a phased basis for 
approximately one week in November 2018 and was signed off with work related stress / 
depression from 27 November 2018. 
Unum declined a claim to pay the monthly benefit under the policy. It didnt think Mrs V was 
incapacitated throughout the deferred period. Mrs V didnt think that was fair, so she 
appealed that decision. Unum concluded that it was right to decline the claim.
Unhappy, Mrs V complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. 
Mrs V disagreed and raised points in reply. Her complaint has now been passed to me to 
look at everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill explain why.
Unum has a duty to handle claims promptly and fairly  and it mustnt unreasonably decline 
a claim. 
The policy pays out a proportion of a members income if they become incapacitated and are 
unable to work. Under the policy:
a member is incapacitated if they are unable, by reason of their illness to perform 
the material and substantial duties of the insured occupation and is not performing 
any occupation
 
Insured occupation means: the trade, profession or general role that the member 
was actively undertaking for the employer immediately prior to incapacity
 So, the focus is very much on whether Mrs V was unable to perform the role she was doing 
because of illness. Im not a medical expert so Ive relied on the evidence available to me 
when considering whether Unum has unfairly declined Mrs Vs claim. 
Mrs V was employed as a supervisor. Unum has said the evidence doesnt support that she 
had an illness of such severity to prevent her from carrying out the required duties of that 
role throughout the deferred period.  
When Mrs V was first signed off work by her GP, in April 2018, the GP notes reflect that she 
was very upset and in tears due to an incident at work. 
The following month, in May 2018, although she was signed off sick with depression, her GP 
notes reflect that she was feeling much better but not ready to return to work. 
Theres also an entry in her GP records from early August 2018 reflecting that Mrs V felt well 
within herself but would like an extension to the sickness certificate until her work situation 
was sorted out.
During the period Mrs V was signed off work sick, she was prescribed anti-depressant 
medication  and this seems to have helped her. But her symptoms are largely self-reported, 
and I dont think Unum has acted unreasonably by concluding that she was unable, by 
reason of her illness, to perform the material and substantial duties of the supervisor role she 
was doing immediately before being signed off work sick. 
Also, most of the medical evidence suggests that the mental health issues reported by Mrs V 
during the deferred period were caused by work-related issues. Although theres also 
mention of some personal issues contributing to the stress she was feeling when she was 
first signed off work sick, Im satisfied that the overall evidence indicates that work was the 
main trigger for her symptoms. The occupational health report dated August 2018 reflects 
this  and says Mrs V had a significant increase in anxiety and stress in the past year due to 
feeling unsupported by senior management. And this issue was only like to be resolved by 
open discussion / mediation.
So, although Mrs V had been signed off work by her GP, and not capable of attending her 
specific workplace, Im not persuaded that she was unable to perform the role she was doing 
more generally for the entirety of the deferred period. All in all, the evidence supports that 
the barrier to Mrs Vs return to work during the deferred period was the work-related issues 
discussed in her GP records/ occupational reports. And its unlikely the underlying issues 
she says was causing her to be off work sick wouldve existed if she was doing the same 
role at a different employer.
Im therefore satisfied Unum has reasonably concluded that she wasnt incapacitated 
throughout that period. 
When making this finding Ive considered all the points raised by Mrs V, including that Unum 
didnt obtain a medical report from her GP before declining her claim; it only requested 
copies of her GP records. Thats not unusual and in this case, I dont think Unum acted 
unreasonably. Her GP records set out the entries made by her GP at the time Mrs V 
contacted them, the symptoms Mrs V was reporting and the medical advice / treatment shed 
received. 
Besides, I can see that Mrs Vs GP did provide a letter dated February 2019, in support of 
Mrs Vs appeal against the decision to decline her claim which was considered by Unum. 
Her GP reported shed been suffering with depression / work-related stress and had been 
referred for local counselling. However, it doesnt automatically follow that Mrs V was incapacitated throughout the entirety of the deferred period and / or that it was illness that 
prevented her from carrying out the material and substantial duties of the supervisor role she 
was doing.
Ive also taken into account what she says about her then employer failing in its duty of care 
to prevent bullying and harassment which made her unwell. But again, even if thats the 
case, it doesnt mean that Unum should pay the monthly benefit in this case. Thats not to 
say that Mrs V hasnt been through a difficult time but for the reasons set out above, I dont 
think Unum has unfairly relied on the terms of the policy to decline her claim. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman