DRN-3462319
The complaint
A company, which Ill call H complains about Allianz Insurance Plcs handling of their 
buildings insurance claim.
M is representing H in their complaint, but for ease Ill refer to H below.
All references to Allianz also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded by what H has said. And I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator for these reasons:
H appointed contractors who carried out further investigations; drilling four boreholes 
into the Tarmac. It was reported the ground beneath the tarmac in one of the 
boreholes was at a different depth, around 400mm, compared to the other three. This 
borehole being in the area affected by the original incident.
Hs surveyor said its reasonable to conclude the burst water main washed out a 
significant amount of subsoil, resulting in the carpark settling to a point where it is 
now lower than it was previously, and rendering the drainage ineffective. 
Allianz says the difference in depths could be explained by the material available 
when the car park was originally constructed  and it was likely certain areas needed 
building up more than offers. As the ground in question is made ground, this is also 
plausible.
However, considering the information available, Im not persuaded the predominant 
cause of the ineffective drainage is due to substantial wash out of the substrate as H 
has suggested.
I say this because the photo H says shows the presence of washed out substrate, 
does show some sand and material. But the photo is zoomed in, and so its difficult to 
determine the actual amount of material here. So, Im not persuaded this shows me 
that the amount present is substantial.
In its reports Allianz noted the tarmac is level with the junctions of the ground floor 
flats and the photos appear to be consistent with this. 
Had the substrate been washed away to the extent suggested by H, its reasonable 
to conclude (particularly given the length of time thats passed since the original 
incident), the tarmac would not be level with the junctions to the flats, and the level of 
distortion would be greater as suggested by Allianz.
Allianz also offered an alternative explanation for the pooling. It said a lack of 
maintenance and the design of the car park have contributed to the pooling. 
Having considered the photos available, I can see the signs of lack of maintenance 
Allianz has suggested, and from the images the sloping of the car park could cause 
pooling without adequate drainage, so I find what Allianz have said here plausible 
also. 
So having considered everything, including the nature of the original incident, the car 
parks layout and the presence of made ground beneath the tarmac, Im more 
persuaded by what Allianz has said  that the cause of the car park becoming 
uneven relates to its settlement and its design.
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman