DRN-2865991
The complaint
 Mrs B and her son Mr B complained that Santander UK Plc gave a fake £50 note in a 
withdrawal from their joint account. 
 
What happened
 On 1 July 2020, Mr B went to their usual Santander branch and withdrew £250 cash, all in 
£50 notes. He took it to another financial organisation, but their machine identified one of the 
£50 notes as fake.
Mr B went back to the Santander branch with all the notes, to get them checked. The branch 
confirmed that one of the £50 notes was a fake. But it refused to change it for a genuine 
note.
Mr B complained. But Santander still refused to replace the note with a genuine one. In its 
final response, it said that it agreed with the branchs decision, and once someone had left 
the branch it couldnt take any responsibility for any fraudulent notes.
Mrs and Mr B werent satisfied and complained to this service. They asked for £50 for the 
loss of the face value of the fake note, £80 for Mr Bs loss of work time spent dealing with the 
complaint, his travel costs having to go back to the Santander branch, and compensation for 
emotional distress.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that although it was impossible to know the 
origins of the fraudulent note, Mr Bs account of events and actions had been consistent. 
The account showed that £250 cash had been withdrawn on 1 July, and Mr B had returned 
the same day with the fake note. The investigator also noted that Santanders procedures 
said that any notes identified as fraudulent shouldnt be returned to customers, to prevent 
counterfeit notes circulating  but this note had been handed back to Mr B. On the balance 
of probabilities, the investigator believed it was more likely that the fake £50 note had been 
issued by Santanders branch.
So the investigator said that Santander should pay B £50 for the fake note, and £100 
compensation for trouble and upset, making a total of £150.
Santander didnt agree. It said that notes delivered to the branch were put through the 
machine by two different members of staff. It said this would pick up any fake notes, and no 
fake notes had ever been delivered to branches. And any notes paid in by other customers 
were checked too. Santander also said that the branch had reported that Mr B had brought 
in £700 for checking, not just £250. It said that it was completely confident that the disputed 
£50 hadnt been supplied by the branch.
The investigator asked Mr B about Santanders statement that hed taken in £700 for 
checking. Mr B said he hadnt, and hed only taken in £250. He said he had taken the £250 
directly from Santander to the other financial organisation, and he hadnt interfered with the 
batch, or spent any, before going back to Santander the same day. 
My provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Whether the fake note was likely to have been from the Santander branch 
These situations are always difficult because I cant tell for certain where the fake £50 note 
came from.  When this happens, take my decision on what I think is more likely to have 
happened, taking into account all the circumstances.
I took seriously Santanders description of the double checks which are done on incoming 
cash delivered to the branch for its use. It seemed unlikely that any fake note could get 
through this system. More likely, however, was the possibility that another customer might 
have paid in a fake note. Again, Santanders policy was for cashiers to check such notes 
with a marker pen and the checking machine. But all people are fallible, as was shown by 
the fact that the policy said that branch staff had to retain all fake notes, and they didnt 
retain the one Mr B brought in that day. So I considered it was possible that another 
customers fake note had been paid in without having been checked by a cashier.
I looked at Santanders policy about fake notes. This says that when a customer returns a 
suspected fake note saying it was from a Santander cash machine or branch counter, its up 
to branch staff to assess the likelihood of the situation, given particular thought to customer 
service. The policy tells staff what factors to check, and Ive looked particularly at those.
In Mrs and Mr Bs complaint:
- a cash withdrawal for £250 took place earlier the same day, which could have 
included the fake £50 note. The Santander branch said that Mr B brought in £700 
when he returned, whereas Mr B said it was only £250. I wasnt present so I cant say 
for sure. But even if it were £700, this doesnt mean the note couldnt have been in 
the £250 withdrawn that same day;
- the account had been open for 28 years at the time of the incident;
- one £50 note was involved.
I also bore in mind that in the long history of the account, there had been no previous reports 
of fake notes. The account statement shows a pattern of £250 cash withdrawals regularly 
throughout 2020 with no apparent issues with any of these.
Taking all these elements into account, I thought it was more likely than not that the fake 
note had been in the £250 which Mr B withdrew from Santander on the day he reported it. 
So I considered that Santander should pay Mrs and Mr B £50 for the financial loss.
Compensation
The fake note involved inconvenience and distress. Mr B had the embarrassment of having 
the note turned down at the other financial organisation. He also then had to make a special 
journey back to Santander, which he said was in a different area from the other financial 
organisation where hed wanted to pay in the notes. This involved him in loss of working time 
and financial loss, which he said was £80, as well as £10 travel costs. We dont normally 
award compensation for time. But Mr B sensibly decided that he should take the notes back 
to Santander the same day, which would have been inconvenient and frustrating, and he 
said he lost work because of this. And as he took all the notes back to Santander instead of paying them into the other financial organisation, hed also have had to go back again 
another time, to pay in the £250 hed originally intended. 
Mrs B, who was elderly and had mobility problems, would also have been upset by what had 
happened, and by what her son had had to do to try to resolve the issue.
So I provisionally found that a fair and reasonable amount of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience would be £150.
Mr B accepted the provisional decision.
Santander didnt accept the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular I have considered all the points that Santander raised in response to my 
provisional decision. 
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my original conclusions.
 
My final decision
  My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs and 
Mr B a total of £200, comprising a refund for the fake £50 note, and £150 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman