DRN-3130576
The complaint
Mrs W complained that Hoyl Independent Advisors Ltd (HIA) didnt advise her of changes to 
the serious illness policies offered by her insurer. 
What happened
Mrs W took out a life assurance and serious illness policy through an Independent Financial 
Advisor (IFA), who Ill refer to as Company A, in February 2011. The plan provided level 
term life cover of £200,000 and £100,000 of level term serious illness cover. The policy term 
was 25 years and the premiums were reviewable. 
Company A ceased trading and went into administration in 2012. In the same year, HIA 
entered into an agreement with the administrators to purchase some of Company As 
business assets, including client and plan details and the right to receive trail commission on 
some plans. 
In September 2020 Mrs Ws young daughter was, unfortunately, diagnosed with Type 1 
diabetes. She submitted a claim to the underwriter, who Ill refer to as Company B, which 
was declined as her policy didnt provide cover for Type 1 diabetes. Mrs W said Company B 
told her it had been offering cover for this condition since June 2020. 
Mrs W complained to HIA. She said her policy was old and had not been updated to cover 
new medical conditions. She said Company B told her it was HIAs responsibility to keep her 
updated about possible changes to her policy. She said shes missed out on a claim 
because HIA failed to contact her to keep her up to date with changes in the protection 
marketplace.
HIA responded in December 2020. It said the monthly commission it continued to receive on 
the plans was a commission payment related to the sale of the plan. So a yearly on-going 
service didnt need to be provided and it wasnt obliged to provide reviews on any plans.  
Mrs W was unhappy with the response from HIA and so complained to this service. 
She added that she hadnt been told that HIA was looking after her policy. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mrs W didnt agree, this has come to me for 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to first of all clarify what usually happens, broadly speaking, when an insurer such as 
Company B looks to cover additional medical conditions on the serious illness policies sold 
by them. Mrs W believes that HIA should have given her the option to add cover for 
additional medical conditions to her existing policy. However, it is rare that medical 
conditions can simply be added to an existing policy. Often a new policy would need to be 
taken out. New policies would then include cover for whatever medical conditions the insurer 
is now willing to cover, and it might also be the case that some medical conditions included 
in older policies are no longer covered. So consumers would need to choose whether to 
relinquish their existing policy and take out a new policy. There might also be a change in 
the cost of premiums, and this is unlikely to be a decrease in cost, as premiums tend to 
increase as consumers age, given that age is related to an increase in risk. 
What this means for Mrs W is that the policy offered by Company B that provided cover for 
Type 1 diabetes is a different product to the one she bought some years earlier. If she 
wanted this cover, she would have most likely needed to buy a completely new product. 
The question Im looking at here is whether HIA was obliged to let Mrs W know about any 
changes Company B made to the type of cover it offers. So not just whether it should have 
told her about the change to cover for Type 1 diabetes  as Mrs W couldnt have known in 
June 2020 that it would later be advantageous for her to have that cover. From what I can 
see, HIA was under no obligation to let Mrs W know about any different products that came 
onto the protection policy market. 
I can see that HIA received some renewal commission in relation to the policy taken out by 
Mrs W in 2011. But its my understanding that commission of this type is payment from an 
insurer to an IFA for introducing consumers, such as Mrs W, to the insurer. In short, the IFA 
has sold a product for the insurer and receives a commission payment for that. I cant see 
anything to suggest that the commission paid is anything other than an introductory 
commission. I cant see that theres an agreement to provide ongoing services and advice. 
HIA made some attempts to contact Mrs W after it was provided with her details by 
Company B. This contact wasnt made because of any obligation on HIAs part. Its likely to 
have been made so that HIA could offer its services as an IFA, should Mrs W want, for 
whatever reason  perhaps a change in circumstances  to check whether she had the most 
appropriate cover in place. HIA had been provided with Mrs Ws contact details as part of the 
agreement with Company As administrators and it was simply contacting her to offer its 
services. 
What this means is that there was no obligation on HIAs part to keep Mrs W up to date with 
changes made to the medical conditions covered by Company B on its policies. I know my 
decision will disappoint Mrs W, but I could only ask HIA to take action if I thought it had 
made an error or acted unfairly and Im satisfied it didnt. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman