DRN-3439901
The complaint
Mrs F and Mrs J are unhappy with the service received from Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance 
Brokers Limited (Gallagher), their broker, as their insurance policy was cancelled by their 
insurer.
What happened
Mrs F and Mrs J own the freehold of a block of flats. They held a commercial insurance 
policy for the block which was taken out via Gallagher in their capacity as a broker. The 
policy was in place with one insurer, and prior to renewal, Gallagher sent a renewal invite 
with another insurer.
The policy was renewed. Shortly after, Mrs F and Mrs J, via their representative, contacted 
Gallagher to query an assumption in the insurer policy documents about the property, and 
whether it was let or sublet.
Gallagher obtained clarification about the freehold/leasehold arrangement Mrs F and Mrs J 
had with a housing association and contacted the insurer to see if the risk was acceptable. 
The insurer said it wasnt and asked for the policy to be cancelled.
Mrs F and Mrs J raised a number of concerns about Gallaghers handling of matters. They 
are also unhappy the policy has been cancelled by the insurer. But this concern doesnt form 
part of this complaint, which is solely about the actions of Gallagher.
As Mrs F and Mrs J remained unhappy, they approached this service with a both a complaint 
about Gallagher and the insurer.
Our investigator looked into both complaints separately. In this complaint about Gallagher, 
he said that Gallagher accurately gave the insurer the information provided by Mrs F and 
Mrs J, so he didnt think Gallagher had misled the insurer. He also said the information about 
the freehold/leasehold arrangement hadnt been volunteered before, and the documents 
highlighted the importance of disclosing information.
The investigator said that under the terms, Gallagher were entitled to retain admin fees and 
commission after the insurer had cancelled the policy, but theyd refunded this. He also said 
there was a delay in arranging a new policy, but Mrs F and Mrs J were already aware their 
policy had been cancelled and Gallagher had offered £250 compensation, which he thought 
was fair. He also said that Gallagher had sourced an alternative policy and if Mrs F and 
Mrs J were unhappy with the price, they couldve sought alternative cover elsewhere.
Mrs F and Mrs J didnt agree with our investigators view of this complaint about Gallagher 
and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should be clear that Im only considering the complaint about Gallagher, the broker, here. 
And my findings will be in relation to Gallaghers actions only. Im considering Mrs F and 
Mrs Js complaint about the insurer separately and will issue my decision on that case 
separately.
The complaint points I can consider here against Gallagher are:
Gallagher allegedly misled the insurer that the flat was sub-let, and more questions 
shouldve been asked
The refund provided by Gallagher 
Mrs F and Mrs J were left without cover for around four months
Mrs F and Mrs J are paying more for a new policy 
Gallagher allegedly misled the insurer that the flat was sub-let, and more questions 
shouldve been asked
Mrs F and Mrs J purchased the freehold of a block of flats and took out a policy to cover it. 
The freehold was previously owned by a housing association. As part of the sale of freehold 
to Mrs F and Mrs J, it was a condition that the housing association would retain a leasehold 
for one of the four flats in the block.
Mrs F and Mrs J were insured, via Gallagher, between 2019 and 2020 after they purchased 
the freehold. Prior to the renewal date in 2020, via Gallagher, they were sent a renewal 
quotation and documents for a policy with a new insurer to that which was on cover 
previously. The policy was subsequently renewed, via Gallagher, with the new insurer. 
After renewal, when further reviewing the documents, Mrs F and Mrs Js representative 
noticed the following assumptions in the policy documents from the new insurer (which were 
also in the renewal quotation prior to the policy being accepted and renewed):
Your property(ies):
Are not and will not be sub-let;
Are not and will not be let to housing associations;
Are not and will not be let to Local Authorities;
Mrs F and Mrs Js representative queried this assumption and provided further details of 
their freehold/leasehold arrangements with the housing association to Gallagher, who then 
contacted the insurer to see if the risk was acceptable.
The insurer confirmed to Gallagher that the risk wasnt acceptable due to the 
freeholder/leaseholder arrangements in place as it was outside their underwriting guidelines. 
The insurer asked for the policy to be cancelled. Mrs F and Mrs J are unhappy the policy has 
been cancelled and want it reinstated.
Im not commenting on the insurers decision to cancel the policy here in this complaint 
about Gallagher, the broker. Instead Ill consider whether Gallagher misled the insurer as 
Mrs F and Mrs J allege.
Mrs F and Mrs J were insured via Gallagher in 2019 when they took out a policy for the 
block. The insurer at that time was different to the one offered at renewal. Gallagher has 
commented on the information that was provided in 2019 around the leaseholder/freeholder 
arrangements, and that it was under the impression three properties were leaseholder and one was a private rental. But Gallagher says they werent made aware the housing 
association would be one of the leaseholders and this information wasnt volunteered during 
the calls either. And the transcript of the calls, which Ive seen, supports that. A policy was 
then arranged with an insurer for 12 months.
However, the renewal invite was with a different insurer to the year before. The renewal 
quotation with the new insurer outlined the information they were aware of already, and a 
number of assumptions, and that included the assumption Ive outlined above. It also 
highlighted the importance of all the information being correct, including the assumptions, 
and this being the responsibility of Mrs F and Mrs J to check. But this and the assumptions 
werent queried with Gallagher at that time, prior to renewal.
The policy was then renewed, and renewal confirmation documentation was provided. The 
renewal documents also included the same information and the same assumptions present 
in the quote. Along with outlining the importance of checking everything was correct and 
confirming that this was Mrs F and Mrs Js responsibility. This documentation then prompted 
a call to Gallagher by Mrs F and Mrs Js representative after renewal had taken place to 
question those assumptions.
Mrs F and Mrs J had an opportunity to query the assumptions prior to renewal. Those same 
assumptions caused Mrs F and Mrs Js representative to contact Gallagher, after theyd 
renewed cover, despite the assumptions being the same on pre-renewal documents. The 
fact they queried these assumptions shows they understood the importance of this 
information to the insurer. 
The change in insurers, and renewal invite, are what generated the new assumptions, which 
were important for the new insurer. The assumptions were highlighted before and after 
renewal and it was Mrs F and Mrs Js responsibility to check them. The information (and 
assumptions) differ to those which were important to the previous insurer. The previous 
insurer was satisfied with the information they obtained from Gallagher for that policy without 
needing specifics about the leaseholder/freeholder arrangement. That insurer wouldve had 
their own conditions, acceptable requirements and assumptions. So, I cant hold Gallagher 
responsible for the new insurer including or introducing different assumptions or considering 
them important. Nor can I reasonably hold Gallagher responsible for the sequence of events 
which followed  Mrs F and Mrs J querying the new assumptions, post renewal, and 
providing further information which ultimately resulted in the new insurer cancelling the 
policy. 
Mrs F and Mrs J also say that when they then contacted Gallagher about those assumptions 
after renewal and provided additional information, Gallagher misled the insurer that the 
insured property was sublet, rather than a lease being held by the housing association. 
However, Ive considered the information Gallagher provided to the insurer after clarification 
from Mrs F and Mrs Js representative. Im satisfied they accurately relayed the information 
they had been provided about the arrangement. And the insurer took this information as 
presented into account in determining whether it was able to offer cover. So, I cant say that 
Gallagher misrepresented the information provided to the insurer, as it relayed the details 
Mrs F and Mrs J had confirmed after clarification. 
Here, Im not specifically commenting on the insurers decision to cancel the policy, but Im 
satisfied Gallagher passed on accurate information to the insurer to allow them to consider 
the circumstances and whether the policy was acceptable.
The refund from Gallagher after the policy was cancelledMrs F and Mrs J are unhappy that the original refund after cancellation had deductions and 
wasnt for the full amount. They say Gallagher deducted fees and retained commission.
Gallagher explained that they werent retaining commission and clarified the breakdown of 
the policy and refund. And the difference in amounts was due to the administration fee 
charged by Gallagher.
The policy terms Mrs F and Mrs J were provided with do outline that Gallagher has the right 
to retain any commission and administration fees if the policy is cancelled. And I dont think 
that in principle is unusual or would be unfair.
But Gallagher did ultimately refund the commission and administration fee in any event, 
even though the terms outlined they were entitled to retain this. So, I dont think Gallagher 
has acted unfairly.
Mrs F and Mrs J were left without cover for a period time
The policy was cancelled in November 2020 as it was unacceptable to the new insurer.
Gallagher says Mrs F and Mrs J were made aware at that time. But Gallagher accept that it 
should have done more. Gallagher said they would look to find a new alternative policy that 
would meet Mrs F and Mrs Js needs. They say they attempted to call Mrs F and Mrs Js 
representative shortly after cancellation to discuss this but werent able to reach them. Ive 
seen internal notes which do support that.
But Gallagher accept that they couldve done more after this time in sourcing an alternative 
policy, which was later completed in February 2021. And they accept the cancellation 
documents werent sent at the time, as they should have been. But Mrs F and Mrs Js 
representative had already been told the policy wouldnt be acceptable with that insurer, so 
wouldve been on notice from that point in any event.
Fortunately, a claim didnt arise within that period, so Mrs F and Mrs J havent suffered a 
financial loss as a result of the gap in cover. But I can see why theyd be concerned when 
they found out they still didnt have cover in place.
Gallagher recognised this, and the delay in processing a refund, and offered £250 
compensation. I think that amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances so Im not 
going to ask Gallagher to increase it.
Mrs F and Mrs J are unhappy the new policy they have is more expensive
The new policy obtained and offered by Gallagher is with a different insurer to that which 
offered a policy at renewal (which was then subsequently cancelled) and the previous 
insurer.Each different insurer is entitled to charge an amount based on their own pricing strategies 
and assessment of risk. So, I cant hold Gallagher responsible if the new insurer charges 
more than the insurer which they were renewed with. And I also need to take into account 
that the renewed policy Mrs F and Mrs J werent entitled to, as the risk wasnt acceptable to 
that insurer. So, they never wouldve been entitled to that policy at that price.
Gallagher offered the best price it could for a policy with an insurer which was willing to 
accept the risk. Mrs F and Mrs J couldve obtained cover elsewhere if they werent satisfied 
with that policy offered or the price of it, as they arent obliged to remain with Gallagher if 
they dont wish to.
My final decision
Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited has already offered to pay £250 
compensation to settle the complaint and I think that offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Arthur J. Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited should pay the £250 
compensation, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman