DRN-3103263
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the way Hastings Insurance Services Limited handled the 
renewal of their home insurance policy.
What happened
In 2019 Mr and Mrs W took out a home insurance policy through Hastings.
In March 2020 Hastings wrote to Mr and Mrs W telling them the policy was due to renew on 
14 April 2020 but they needed to pay the premium. Mr and Mrs W paid the premium on the 
renewal date.
In September Mr and Mrs W tried to make a claim under the policy. They complained to 
Hastings that they werent able to log into their online account, when they contacted 
customer service Hastings couldnt trace their policy and they were told by the insurer that 
the policy had lapsed in April 2020, so they were uninsured.
Hastings explained that as Mr and Mrs Ws broker it was responsible for administering and 
managing their insurance policy. It said claims should be notified to the insurers claims 
handler whose telephone number was given in the policy documentation. Hastings said 
according to the claims handler Mr and Mrs W had contacted it to register a claim for 
vandalism but decided not to proceed with this because the excess payable under the policy 
was more than the cost of the repair.
Hastings said it could see that Mr and Mrs W had tried to log in to their online account 
several times unsuccessfully on the day of the loss. It said they tried again the following day 
and were able to reset their password and log in. 
Lastly it said it couldnt trace any calls from Mr and Mrs W on the relevant date but it had 
asked the insurer to check as well. It confirmed to the insurer that the policy was in place 
until 13 April 2021. It offered to review the costs of any calls made by Mr and Mrs W to it if 
they could provide an itemised bill or other evidence of costs incurred.
The insurer has now accepted that Mr and Mrs W had a policy in place with it from 14 April 
2020.
Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She 
didnt think Hastings had done anything wrong.
As Mr and Mrs W didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Im only looking at how Hastings treated Mr and Mrs W as an administrator of 
their policy. Theyve made a separate complaint against the insurer.
I know Mr W feels strongly that he and Mrs W entered into a contract with Hastings for a 
home insurance policy and if they didnt have such cover, then Hastings should refund the 
premium. The fact is though that they were covered as the insurer has since confirmed. The 
legal position is more complicated than a single contract between Mr and Mrs W and 
Hastings as Hastings explained in the policy document. It said:
Information about your contract of insurance
When you take out a home insurance policy through us you enter into two separate 
contracts; The first contract is with your insurer, named on your policy schedule. Your 
insurer agrees to insure you according to the terms, conditions and exclusions in this 
policy, under Parts 2, 3, 4 and 5,and will handle any claims. Your insurer charges a 
premium for this, which includes insurance premium tax.
The second contract is with us, acting on your behalf as your agent by arranging and 
administering your insurance policy and we'll charge fees for this service. Our terms and 
conditions are set out in part 6 of this policy wording.
It gave more information about its role in part 6 of the policy. In this section it said:
What's the service we provide?
Our services include arranging your insurance cover. We'll also help you make any changes 
you need, such as amendments to the sums insured, use of your property and personal 
details. We'll arrange the renewal or cancellation of your policy. If your original Insurer 
doesn't accept a change you've made to your policy, we'll arrange cover with an alternative 
insurer from our panel, wherever possible. We can also arrange optional extras such as 
legal protection and home emergency cover if required .
It was very unfortunate that somehow Mr and Mrs W were led to understand that their policy 
hadnt been renewed. But I cant hold Hastings responsible for that. Theres no evidence that 
it did anything wrong in the way it handled the renewal because Mr and Mrs W were in fact 
insured. So I dont think theres any justification for Hastings to refund the premium.
I havent seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs W contacted Hastings at the time they said 
theyd been told by Hastings that it couldnt trace their policy. I think the most likely 
explanation is that they were speaking instead to the insurer or its claim handler whose 
number was given in the policy and I cant hold Hastings liable for any mistakes on the part 
of those third parties.
It would no doubt have been very frustrating for Mr and Mrs W if they couldnt log into their 
online account to check their policy details at the very time when they needed to make a 
claim. I dont know the reason for this but the fact they were able to log in successfully the 
next day after resetting their password suggests to me that it wasnt Hastings fault.
Its clear there was some confusion about Mr and Mrs Ws policy cover. But unfortunately for 
them Im not persuaded that this was caused by any failing on the part of Hastings.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman