DRN-3395238
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Lloyd & Whyte Ltd (L&W) mis-sold her business interruption 
insurance policy. 
Mr P has helped Mrs P in bringing this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
actions and comments as being those of Mrs P.
What happened
Mrs P bought a business protection policy through L&W in 2014 and the policy renewed 
each year. In 2020 Mrs P claimed on her policy after her business was impacted by Covid-
19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. The insurer turned down Mrs Ps claim 
as it said the policy didnt cover the circumstances of her claim. 
Mrs P complained to L&W. She said other insurers in the industry had paid claims in the 
same circumstances as hers and thought L&W had mis-sold the policy by not offering a 
policy that provided cover. Mrs P said that L&W only offered a policy from one insurer and 
shed never been informed of this. Mrs P asked for details of the relationship between the 
insurer and L&W. She didnt feel that as a specialist broker who was in partnership with the 
industry association, that L&W had acted in her best interests.  
L&W provided a detailed response. It said it wasnt required to use a range of insurers 
although it was required to be clear and transparent and to advise if it was using a panel of 
insurers or a sole provider. L&W said as a Schemes Broker it works with the industry 
association and develops a scheme which provides cover which that industry reasonably 
requires. 
L&W explained to Mrs P how it selected the insurer and said the documents provided to her 
each year had been clear in stating that it uses a sole provider. L&W said the policy it sold 
was consistent with her demands and needs and it couldnt have been expected to have 
known that cover would be required for a pandemic. 
Unhappy with L&Ws response, Mrs P brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ps complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he 
didnt think L&W had mis-sold her policy. He also didnt think Mrs P would have bought a 
different policy if shed known in September 2019 that the policy didnt cover business 
interruption as a result of pandemics. 
Mrs P asked for an ombudsmans decision as she still thought it was unfair that her insurer 
hadnt paid her claim. She said her business had been forced to close due to Government 
policy rather than because the disease was at her premises. Mrs P didnt think information 
about her policy had been provided in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading and said 
it hadnt been made clear that business interruption cover was subject to restrictions or 
exclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact of the pandemic on Mrs Ps business. However, Im not 
going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why. 
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook says that when selling a policy a firm 
should specify its customers demands and needs and propose a policy thats consistent 
with them. As this was an advised sale, L&W has to take reasonable care to ensure the 
suitability of its advice, as well as a general duty to provide information thats clear, fair and 
not misleading. 
With regard to business interruption insurance the Statement of Demands and Needs 
provided in 2014 says:
This policy meets your underlying need for cover to replace loss of income as a 
result of total or partial inability to trade following an insured claim  
L&W provided Mrs P with a copy of the policy documents which clearly set out what it was 
covered. 
Im not going to comment on each years renewal and will instead focus on the renewal in 
September 2019 as that is the relevant policy for Mrs Ps claim. 
In August 2019 L&W sent a letter to Mrs P about her policy renewal. Under the heading of 
Important information regarding your policy the letter says that L&W are recommending the 
insurer who they use as their sole provider. I think its clear that L&W was only using one 
provider and it communicated this to Mrs P.
Different policies cover different risks and Im satisfied that L&W sold Mrs P a policy that was 
consistent with her demands and needs. While ultimately Mrs Ps policy didnt provide cover 
for the interruption to her business, I cant reasonably expect L&W to have anticipated in 
August 2019 that the industry would require cover for a national pandemic. I also cant fairly 
conclude that L&W sold Mrs P an inferior policy because it didnt provide cover for her claim. 
I dont find it unusual for a policy to not cover every eventuality or to contain exclusions. Id 
expect L&W to highlight anything significant within the policy, but I dont think the lack of 
cover for a pandemic or Government lockdown was significant at the time the policy 
renewed. 
I understand Mrs P was frustrated to find that her policy didnt provide cover for the 
circumstances of her claim but I think L&W proposed a policy that was consistent with her 
demands and needs and provided information that was clear, fair and not misleading. L&W 
let Mrs P know it was working with the insurer as a sole provider and, overall, I think it took 
reasonable steps to ensure the suitability of its advice. It follows that I dont think L&W mis-
sold Mrs Ps policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman