DRN-3538796
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M as trustees of the S M Trust {the trustees} complain that Bank of Scotland 
plc, trading as Halifax {Halifax} provided incorrect information about a potential inheritance 
tax liability {IHT} on a unit linked investment bond held within a Gift Trust. 
What happened
Mrs M took out an investment bond with Halifax in 2004 with Mr M as a joint life assured. 
The intention of the investment was to mitigate any IHT that may be payable on the estate of 
Mr and Mrs M. The investment was written under a Gift Trust with Mrs JM as a trustee, and 
upon the second death of the lives assured the value would be paid to the potential 
beneficiaries listed. Mr M was added as an additional trustee in 2005.
The trustees spoke with Halifax by telephone in 2012 and discussed a number of 
investments they held under trust at the time. In this call Halifax told the trustees that they 
could withdraw up to 5% of the original investment per year from the Gift Trust, and that it 
was possible to take this from the first year the investment was made. And, shortly after this 
the trustees arranged for annual withdrawals to be paid to them and these continued for 
several years but have now stopped.
Several years later, after meeting with another financial adviser several years later, the 
trustees complained to Halifax that the advice to withdrawal 5% per year meant that the IHT 
mitigation the Gift Trust provided had been compromised. Halifax agreed there had been 
some discussion about withdrawals from Loan Trusts held by the trustees separately but 
thought these had been conflated when a similar discussion took place about the Gift Trust. 
Halifax said the trustees provided no reason why the withdrawals were being considered and 
who was to benefit from the withdrawals and that any discussions were generic and not 
advice. Halifax said the trustees were responsible for ensuring the withdrawals were in line 
with the Gift Trust terms and didnt uphold the complaint. However, Halifax did offer to cover 
the cost of specialist tax planning advice the trustees seek, as this would likely help them 
understand what can now be done from an IHT planning perspective as the terms of the Gift 
Trust had been breached by the trustees.
The trustees didnt agree with Halifax and brought their complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into things and recognised there were 
understandable concerns about a potential inheritance tax liability, but thought it was the 
responsibility of the trustees to ensure the terms of the trust were followed.
The trustees didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides the 
complaint. It has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the trustees will be disappointed, but Ive decided Halifax didnt do anything 
significantly wrong and that their offer to cover the reasonable cost of the settlor for of 
specialist financial is a reasonable one that they may wish to consider further. I will now 
explain why.
The point of sale literature from 2004 confirms Mrs Ms intention as the settlor was to gift the 
funds outside of the estate and create a potentially exempt transfer for IHT purposes. The 
Gift Trust was recommended as Mrs M didnt want or need access to the amount invested. 
The terms of the trust made it reasonably clear that any funds within the trust are held for the 
beneficiaries, and not the settlor or trustees. 
By the time of the telephone call in December 2012 the full value of the investment bond 
would have fallen outside of the estate if Mr M and Mrs M had died. This isnt disputed. And, 
during the telephone call there were also discussions about individual Loan Trusts held by 
each of the trustees and the withdrawals that had been taken to date. Ive reviewed the 
telephone call and Im satisfied the trustee who spoke with Halifax understood the 
investment made in 2004 was a Gift Trust and not a Loan Trust.
I can appreciate there may have been some confusion about what trust type was being 
discussed, but its reasonably clear to me that after the trustee provided the investment bond 
reference number, Halifax and the trustee seem more likely to be discussing the tax 
implications of the Gift Trust. Halifax explained to the trustee that funds can be withdrawn 
and that this can be set-up to happen on a regular basis. I dont consider what Halifax told 
the trustee during this call was advice. In my opinion it was generic information as Im not 
persuaded the trustees told Halifax they were looking withdraw funds from the investment for 
the benefit of the settlor. This is important because withdrawals or surrender of the 
investment by the trustees isnt something thats prohibited. But the Gift Trust makes it clear 
that the settlor cant derive any benefit from the investment if the trust is to keep its 
potentially exempt transfer status. 
In this case, after the telephone call took place, Halifax sent the trustees a withdrawal form. 
This form warned the trustees, Its the responsibility of the trustees to ensure that any tax 
planning benefits arent affected and that the interests of the beneficiaries and the positions 
of the trustees are protected. The same form said, Before requesting payments from plans 
under trust the trustees may wish to seek specialist professional advice if they have 
concerns over the possible tax implications. So, regardless of the content of the telephone 
call, Im satisfied Halifax provided the trustees with sufficient guidance to remind them of 
their responsibilities as trustees and to seek specialist advice about the possible tax 
implications on any withdrawals.
I think its also important to note that although the trustees say theyve gifted significant 
amount of money to the potential beneficiaries of the Gift Trust since the withdrawals started, 
the withdrawal form they completed dated January 2013 explained the purpose for the first 
withdrawal was, To fund holidays and installation of double glazing. Ive seen details of the 
payments the trustees have made to the potential beneficiaries, but I cant comment any 
further on the tax implications here or whether these could be set against the regular 
withdrawals from the investment bond. I consider this is a matter best considered by an 
expert who can take into account all of the circumstances for each event. And, because the 
terms of the Gift Trust make it clear the settlor could derive no benefit from the investment, I 
consider it would be prudent for the trustees to seek specialist professional advice in this 
regard. It seems to me that the offer made by Halifax that they would consider covering the 
cost of the trustees in obtaining this advice is a reasonable one under the circumstances. 
The trustees may want to contact Halifax if they now wish to accept this offer.
Ive seen that Halifax offered to pay the trustees £300 for the delays in providing them with 
information they requested when they first raised their concerns, and for the delays in giving an answer to the complaint. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity so I dont have the 
jurisdiction to comment on how the complaint was handled, but the trustees may want to 
contact Halifax if they now wish to accept it.
My final decision
Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax havent done anything significantly 
wrong and dont need to do anything to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M as 
trustees of the S M Trust to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman