DRN-3129789
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C complain about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) settlement of their travel 
insurance claim and its service.  
What happened
Mrs and Mr C had travel insurance through a bank account, insured by UKI. On 11 March 
2020 they travelled to India and were due to return on 27 March 2020.
On 13 March 2020 the Indian Government suspended all visas granted to foreign nationals 
due to Covid-19. Indian state governments restricted travel between states, which Mrs and 
Mr C say made continuing their trip impossible. On 14 March 2020 following the Indian 
Governments advice the Indian Association of Tour Operators said foreign tourists should 
return to their home country immediately.
Mrs and Mr C rearranged their return flight to 16 March 2020 incurring additional costs of 
£640. They claimed for those costs and the accommodation, travel and excursions costs 
they hadnt used due to the holiday being cut short (curtailed), which totalled about £4,000.  
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all 
nonessential travel abroad, including India.
UKI assessed the claim under the natural disaster curtailment terms of the policy. Those 
provided cover for necessary extra travel and accommodation expenses to return to the UK 
if the area Mrs and Mr C was in was adversely affected by a natural disaster. UKI paid the 
additional flight costs.
UKI wouldnt pay all the lost costs Mrs and Mr C had on the basis that they cut short their 
holiday before the FCO advised against non-essential travel to India. UKI accepted it had 
handled the claim poorly and paid Mrs and Mr C £200 compensation for their distress and 
inconvenience.
Mrs and Mr C complained to us. Their main points are:
UKIs refusal to cover their lost costs was unfair. It couldnt reasonably expect them 
to have waited until the FCO advised against all non-essential travel to India when 
they were already there, the Indian government had advised they should leave and 
they had acted on that advice.
UKIs service was very poor. In summary: it took too long to decide the claim; when 
they called UKI they had to wait on the phone on hold for sometimes over an hour; 
when their claim was turned down UKI was still asking for documents it already had; 
UKI took too long to answer their queries.
Our investigator said UKIs settlement of the claim was fair and its payment of £200 
compensation payment for Mrs and Mr Cs distress and inconvenience caused by its poor 
service was reasonable.
Mrs and Mr C disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
Industry rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority say an insurer must handle claims 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs and Mr Cs 
complaint.
The policy terms
The policy says it will cover:
unused accommodation costs and travel costs (including car hire, excursions and 
activities);
reasonable additional accommodation costs to allow you to return home early; and
reasonable additional travel costs to allow you to return home early if you cannot use 
your return ticket
that you have paid or legally have to pay if you unavoidably need to abandon your 
trip while you are away for one of the following reasons:

The Foreign & Commonwealth Office advising against All Travel or All but 
essential travel to your destination, providing the advice came into force after your 
departure on your trip;
You are forced to move from your pre-booked and pre-paid accommodation because 
the accommodation or immediately surrounding area are adversely affected by 
natural disaster, in which event we will cover the necessary extra travel and 
accommodation expenses to allow you to continue with your trip or return to your 
home area if you are unable to continue with your trip.
The policy definition of natural disaster includes pandemic. The World Health Organisation 
had declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic on 11 March 2020.
Under the curtailment section theres a policy limit of £5,000 for each insured person of 
£5,000, which includes £500 for each insured person for natural disaster.
Was UKIs settlement of the claim fair and reasonable?
The claim met the natural disaster policy term which only covers the extra travel and 
accommodation costs, not lost costs. UKI has agreed to cover the additional costs in line 
with the policy terms, which I think is fair. So the key point for me to decide is whether UKI 
fairly declined to cover Mrs and Mr Cs unused costs.
The FCOs advice against non-essential travel abroad came into force after Mrs and Mr Cs 
departure on their trip (as required by the policy term) but the advice came into force a day 
after Mrs and Mr C had returned home. They didnt abandon the trip due to the FCO advice 
so on a strict reading of the policy terms UKI could say the claim wasnt covered under that policy term. However I need to decide whether UKIs settlement was fair and reasonable, 
and I dont think it was. Ill explain why.
UKI hasnt disputed that Mrs and Mr C unavoidably needed to abandon their trip and hasnt 
disputed that they acted reasonably leaving when they did. From the evidence Mrs and Mr C 
has provided from the Indian Ministry of Tourism and Indian Association of Tour Operators 
Im satisfied it was reasonable for them to leave when they did. If Mrs and Mr C had stayed 
in India then the FCO would have issued its advice the next day and there would have been 
an insured event under the policy. That means their curtailment claim for lost costs would 
have been covered under the policy terms as they would have been entitled to abandon their 
trip due to the change in FCO advice. I dont think thats a fair position for Mrs and Mr C to 
be in, particularly given that availability of flights to and from India was becoming 
increasingly difficult following the suspension of visas. So I dont think Mrs C and Mr Cs 
decision to return a day before the FCO advice means that UKI can fairly reject their claim.
In these particular circumstances I think the fair outcome would be for UKI to pay Mrs and 
Mr Cs unused accommodation, travel and excursions costs as well as their additional travel 
costs its already paid. The costs claimed by Mrs and Mr C are within the policy limits. 
Interest should be added as Ive detailed below. I think Mrs and Mr C would have paid any 
excess under the policy when UKI paid its settlement but if not then any excess would be 
payable in line with the policy terms.
Service
UKI accepts it gave poor service when handling the claim. UKI, and most insurers, were 
experiencing an unexpected and unprecedented demand on its service due to Covid-19 and 
was unable to provide its usual service which I think explains some of the delays Mrs and 
Mr C experienced. Mrs and Mr C have detailed the issues they experienced with UKIs 
service and I think UKIs £200 compensation payment is a reasonable amount for their 
distress and inconvenience due to its poor service.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs and Mr C agreed my provisional decision. UKI also agreed but said it had some queries 
about the amount Mrs and Mr C were claiming and asked to contact them direct.
I asked our investigator to explain on my behalf to both parties that as UKI had now agreed 
to cover the claim I would do a final decision. It would be best for the parties to directly 
discuss UKIs queries as to the costs Mrs and Mr C claimed. If the parties couldnt agree on 
the amount that UKI needed to pay then Mrs and Mr C would need to make a separate 
complaint to us about the amount in dispute.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As UKI and Mrs and Mr C agreed my provisional decision Ive no reason to change my mind 
and for the reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision UKI should pay the claim. UKI 
reasonably wants to check with Mrs and Mr C that the amount they claimed is correct. Ive 
explained to both parties that if they cant agree the amount UKI has to pay then Mrs and 
Mr C will need to make a separate complaint to us about the amount in dispute.
Mrs and Mr C havent commented on my reasoning in the provisional findings as to why 
I think UKIs £200 compensation payment was a reasonable amount for their distress and inconvenience due to its poor service. So Ive no reason to change my mind on that matter.
Putting things right
UKI must pay Mrs and Mr Cs unused accommodation, travel and excursions costs, less any 
excess payable, plus interest as detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mrs and Mr Cs unused accommodation, travel and 
excursions costs, less any excess payable. Interest* should be added at 8% simple a year 
from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
*If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs and Mr C how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs and Mr C a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman