DRN-4484149
The complaint
Mr L complains that London & Colonial Services Limited (L&C) shouldnt have allowed him 
to invest in its Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and that it failed to carry out sufficient 
due diligence on the investment made within it. He says L&C should compensate him for his 
loss. 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (Options) has been dealing with the complaint on 
behalf of L&C. Options is part of the same group of companies as L&C. For ease of 
reference I have referred to L&C throughout this decision.
For simplicity, I refer to Mr L throughout, even where the submissions Im referring to were 
made by his representative.
What happened
I've outlined the key parties involved in Mr L's complaint below.
Involved parties
L&C
L&C is a regulated pension provider and administrator. Its authorised to arrange deals in
investments, deal in investments as principal, establish, operate or wind up a personal
pension scheme and to make arrangements with a view to transactions in investments.
C.I.B (Life & Pensions) Limited (CIB)
At the time of the events in this complaint, CIB was authorised by the then regulator, the 
Financial Services Authority (FSA)  which later became the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and which Ill refer to throughout for ease of reference  to advise on regulated 
products and services including giving investment advice and arranging deals in investments 
such as pensions. In May 2015, CIB went into liquidation, and has since been dissolved.
Real SIPP LLP (RealSIPP)
RealSIPP was an appointed representative of CIB from April 2010 to June 2015. 
Sustainable Agroenergy plc (SA)
SA offered investments based on trees grown in Cambodia. The investments involved 
leasing plots of land from SA, along with the trees planted on them, and renting them out to 
a Cambodian company connected to SA and receiving a return either as annual income 
payments or additional land plots. 
In November 2011, the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) opened a criminal investigation into SA. 
In February 2012, it obtained company and freezing orders against SA. And, in March 2012, 
the company entered receivership. 
The SFO investigation focused on the sale and promotion of SAs products, including the 
one Mr L invested in. The SFO found that investors had been deliberately misled about the 
nature of the investment and that a person responsible for sales had obtained commission 
rates of 65% of the amounts invested. It also noted that SA was effectively insolvent by   
mid-2011. The SFO later brought charges and three men were found guilty and given prison 
sentences in or around 2014. 
The transaction
On 29 September 2011, Mr L signed a SIPP application form to transfer his existing SIPP 
into one with L&C and to invest the funds in an Agroforestry Lease offered by SA. Mr Ls 
application listed his financial advisers as RealSIPP and CIB. It provided FCA authorisation 
numbers for both and contact details for RealSIPP. And it said Mr L would manage the 
investment himself, as opposed to having a financial adviser manage it or appointing an 
investment manager. It also said fees of £1,000 upfront plus £200 per year would be paid to 
RealSIPP.
RealSIPP submitted Mr Ls SIPP application form to L&C on 11 October 2011, which it 
received the next day. On 24 October 2011, just under £32,000 was transferred into Mr Ls 
SIPP with L&C. And L&C said it formally opened this on 27 October 2011. 
On 28 October 2011, L&C sent SA signed lease and rental agreements for the investment. 
These said that Mr L would purchase the lease of 4.4 plots for £26,400. That the plots were 
held in trust for SA. And after L&C had paid for the plots, the trustee would hold them in trust 
for the benefit of L&C. The trustee would issue a Certificate of Leasehold which would 
evidence L&Cs beneficial ownership of the land. The terms said L&C could sell the plots 
back to SA for the original purchase price during years five to ten of the lease. And L&C 
could offer the lease for sale to a third party at any time. According to agreements, Mr L was 
to receive 50% of the gross value of the extracted reserves the Cambodian company would 
generate by harvesting seeds from the trees on his plots. And, on 16 November 2011, 
£26,400 of the value of Mr Ls SIPP was invested into SA.
As mentioned above, in November 2011, the SFO opened a criminal investigation into SA. In 
February 2012 a court froze SAs assets and, in March 2012, SA entered receivership. Im 
also aware that, in April 2012, the administrator for SA wrote to investors saying SA had no 
title to the land being invested in and no way its business model could work, and most of the 
land was unsuitable for jatropha trees. The administrator said investors had been promised 
returns of 5% in the first year, 12% in the second year, and 20% in the third and subsequent 
years.
Additional background information
The evidence Ive considered in reaching this decision also includes information provided to 
this Service by L&C as part of our investigation of another complaint (which was the subject 
of published decision reference DRN-3587366) in which RealSIPP introduced a consumer to 
L&C. Ive summarised this evidence below.
L&C told us that by applying to be an intermediary, RealSIPP agreed to be bound by the 
terms of The Intermediary Agreement for Non-Insured Contracts. Ive seen copies of the 
L&C intermediary applications that CIB and RealSIPP signed on 13 September 2010 to 
confirm this, and Ive also seen a copy of the agreement.Ive also seen a copy of L&Cs checklist for the Vetting of Intermediary Applications which 
confirmed it had, for example, checked the FCA register, along with a copy of the register 
dated 20 September 2010 which showed that CIB was authorised by the FCA. 
L&C also gave us copies of print outs from the FCA register showing that, on 11 October 
2011, RealSIPP was an appointed representative of CIB. And CIBs permissions included 
advising on pension transfers and pension opt outs.
Ive also seen L&Cs Open Pension Brochure which relates to the SIPP Mr L opened. 
Amongst other things, the document says, The L&C Open Pension is not appropriate for 
everybody and it is essential that you obtain financial advice before entering into one. The 
document also says L&C has no responsibility for investment decisions. But that itll ensure 
assets are correctly registered and comply with HM Revenue & Customs rules and 
regulations.
And Ive seen archived versions of RealSIPPs website (www.realsipp.com) from 3 February 
2011, 3 December 2011 and 3 January 2012, which said RealSIPP didnt provide advice on 
investments and instead only provided generic information on the considerations and risks 
associated with property investment. It said:
If you are in any doubt over your chosen investment and its suitability to your needs 
and circumstances you should seek professional advice from a suitably qualified 
Independent Financial Adviser.
Mr Ls complaint
Mr L made a claim about CIB to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
Mr L said he made this claim in May 2019, after approaching his representative in 
September 2018 when he realised people were losing their money in the SA investment. 
The FSCS wrote to Mr L on 10 January 2020 and said it agreed he had a valid claim against 
CIB. The FSCS provided a calculation in which it calculated Mr Ls losses to be just over 
£58,000. And it paid Mr L £50,000 which, as I understand it, was its compensation limit at 
that time. On request, the FSCS later reassigned legal rights against L&C back to Mr L.
Mr L first complained, via his representatives, to L&C on 28 February 2020 that it shouldnt 
have allowed him to invest in his SIPP and that L&C didnt do enough due diligence on the 
SA investment which was unregulated, high-risk and didnt suit his risk profile. 
L&C replied in June 2020. It said, in summary, that:
It was an execution-only SIPP provider and this was clearly explained to Mr L in the 
documentation, including the application form, member declarations, terms and 
conditions and key features, which he signed confirming hed understood this. 
It had to execute Mr Ls execution only instruction to comply with the Conduct of 
Business (COBS) rules in the FCAs Handbook, including COBS 11.2.19, which said:
Whenever there is a specific instruction from the client, the firm must execute 
the order following the specific instruction.
A firm satisfies its obligation under this section to take all reasonable steps to 
obtain the best possible result for a client to the extent that it executes an 
order, or a specific aspect of an order, following specific instructions from the 
client relating to the order or the specific aspect of the orderL&C didnt provide advice and wasnt permitted to do so. It didnt consider the 
appropriateness/suitability of the switch and underlying investment for Mr L.
It provided numerous risk warnings about the SA investment being high risk and/or 
speculative, recommended he seek financial advice and took steps to ensure he 
understood his instructions were on an execution only basis. 
L&Cs role was to satisfy itself that the investment was capable of being held in the 
SIPP in accordance with HMRC regulations, which was the full extent of its due 
diligence duty. And to do that it reviewed the legal paperwork, product information, 
company background checks and it obtained an independent report from an external 
compliance entity. 
In June 2020, unhappy with this response, Mr L referred his complaint to our Service. 
L&C said Mr Ls complaint was out of time because it had opened his SIPP and made the 
investment more than six years before he complained. And that Mr L wouldve known more 
than three years before he complained that something had gone wrong, as statements and 
letters L&C sent Mr L between October 2012 and July 2016 said his investment had no 
value. 
One of our Investigators reviewed Mr Ls complaint and said it was made in time, as there 
was no reason to think Mr L became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, he 
had cause for complaint against L&C about the due diligence it had carried out until late 
2018. And Mr L raised his complaint with L&C within three years of that. 
Our Investigator also said Mr Ls complaint should be upheld because, in summary, L&C 
shouldnt have accepted his application from RealSIPP in light of the volume of business and 
proportion of customers being introduced to it who werent receiving advice on high-risk 
unregulated investments. She said that while L&C had told us that Mr Ls application in 
October 2011 was the first introduction it received from RealSIPP, information provided on 
other cases showed that by the time of Mr Ls referral to it L&C is likely to have already 
received around 43 introductions from RealSIPP. 
In response, L&C disagreed that Mr Ls complaint had been made in time. It said, in 
summary, that:
Mr Ls complaint is that SA investment shouldnt have been accepted into the SIPP. 
And theres no clearer indication of this than when the investment was valued at nil 
in his annual statements from 2012. 
Theres no requirement in the DISP rules for a complainant to be aware of the 
specifics of the complaint or exactly what this entails. The purpose of the three-year 
rule is to allow time to investigate once concerned something had gone wrong. 
Mr Ls awareness of issues with his investment from his statements ought to have led 
him to question the holding of this within his SIPP. 
In addition, it understands the receiver wrote to all investors on April 2012 and 
explained that neither the SA companies or its group had any title to the Cambodian 
land, yet it purported to effect the sale of leases to investors on the basis they did. 
And nor was there any way in which the business model on which the project was 
built could operate, as most of the site was unsuitable for products and very 
considerable work was needed, such that the guaranteed returns were illusory. 
A brief search of the SFOs website reveals that, by the end of 2014, SAs directors 
had been convicted. So Mr L ought to have been aware the investment was a sham. 
L&C wrote to Mr L in July 2016 and explained his SA investment had encountered 
serious trading difficulties, it was regarded as having no value with no realistic 
prospects for sale in the foreseeable future. So Mr Ls SIPP cant be considered to have any value. 
If it is correct that L&C shouldnt have accepted the SA investment  which it denies 
 then the correspondence Mr L received, including concerns about title and returns 
and the investment being valued at nil and a sham, should have been sufficient to 
give him concern to investigate if this should have been accepted into his SIPP and 
to question the due diligence process. 
While L&C didnt comment on the Investigators view of the merits of Mr Ls complaint, Im 
aware that in submissions on other cases with our Service involving the same introducer it 
has said, amongst other things, that:
Our Service is imposing a duty on L&C beyond that envisaged by the parties, which 
imposes additional duties on it to those provided for under the COBS.
L&C didnt manage the SIPP or the assets in it. On the application form the customer 
confirmed theyd manage the investment themselves.
L&C was aware of references to suitability reports in a 2009 review by the FSA, but 
SIPP operators werent required to view suitability reports. Suitability, advice and 
recommendations were a matter between client and adviser.
Clients were introduced by a reputable company and, where appropriate, were 
warned to take further investment advice before proceeding.
FCA guidance in 2013 said SIPP operators werent responsible for advice from third 
parties. 
L&C had controls in place to monitor business introduced, and the source and 
volume of business. And that was under constant review. L&C said that where it saw 
anomalies it took appropriate action, such as ceasing to accept business.
L&C had limited powers to veto an investment and it didnt provide advice or 
comment on the merits of an investment. It added that:
Our responsibilities in connection with SIPP investments are to satisfy 
ourselves, in our capacity as Trustee and hence the potential owner of the 
investment, that they are allowed within the Trust rules and do not breach 
HMRC regulations. We also establish what liabilities and responsibilities we 
would be required to take on as the owner of the asset such as any ongoing 
financial liabilities which would need to be met from the SIPP fund. On an 
ongoing basis we maintain records of the pension arrangement including all 
transactions, monitoring receipt of income due from investments and make 
appropriate reports to HMRC and the FCA.
The customer had decided to switch before contacting L&C, and theres nothing to 
indicate they wouldnt have still gone ahead if L&C had refused the business.
Other SIPP providers were accepting such investments at the time, and its most 
likely the transactions would have been effected with another provider.
L&C said that it ensured investment entities existed and where practical it obtained a 
legal opinion on an investment, and as far as possible it verified claims made about 
the investment and would not proceed if the adviser was not authorised.
Appropriate and relevant due diligence was undertaken both to ensure that title to the 
asset would be obtained and that the SA investment proposition could be held in the 
SIPP.
The investment was a legitimate business and not impaired.
The investment could be valued and was capable of being purchased and sold.
The introduction was from a FCA regulated entity and COBS 2.4.4 provides for 
division of responsibility in such circumstances. Insufficient weight has been given to 
contractual arrangements and the demarcation of roles and responsibilities. 
As RealSIPP/CIB are no longer extant, weve concluded that L&C is responsible.The Principles fall to be construed in light of the COBS rules applicable to L&C, its 
regulatory permissions, contractual arrangements and the statutory objective that 
consumers should take responsibility for their decisions.
Publications issued after the transactions shouldnt have a bearing on this complaint. 
And these cant alter the meaning, or the scope, of the obligations imposed by the 
Principles.
Many of the matters which The 2009 Thematic Review Report invites firms to 
consider are directed at firms providing advisory services.
By linking findings to good practice instead of the interpretation of the COBS rules as 
set out in case law, L&C is held to an unreasonable standard. The standard it should 
be held to is that of a reasonably competent SIPP provider. 
L&C wasnt required to request information or copies of advice. It couldnt comment 
on advice without potentially being in breach of its permissions. 
Making a value judgment on advice wasnt within L&Cs role. And L&C couldnt reject 
business without making a value judgment on suitability for each individual client, 
which fell outside of its expertise and the terms of the contract.
L&C hasnt ever had permission to advise on investments.
The relationships in this case are similar to those in Adams, the distinguishing factor 
is that RealSIPP wasnt an unauthorised introducer.
In Adams the FCA agreed that the function of a firm, as determined by contract, 
would govern what it had to do to comply with its duties under the FCA Handbook.
L&C acted in accordance with the contract and in full satisfaction of its duty.
There was no restriction on L&C accepting business from RealSIPP without advice 
having been given.
L&C wasnt in breach of any rule, guidance or law in accepting the investment.
Insisting advice be offered would have made no practical difference, as the decision 
to transfer was made before the SIPP/investment applications were signed.
A consumer who requested (and received) an execution-only service, after signing 
disclaimers should be responsible for the consequences of their actions.
It was common practice for SIPP providers to accept such investments in 2011. If 
L&C had rejected the application, it would have proceeded with a different SIPP 
provider.
Had L&C rejected the investment it wouldnt have been able to give reasons for this 
without breaching its permissions.
Because no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me for a decision.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint on 7 November 2023. Mr L
responded confirming he had no further comments to make. 
L&C didnt provide any further comments or information in respect of Mr Ls complaint, 
despite being allowed further time to do so beyond the response deadline. And while L&C 
did go on to tell our Service it was considering making an offer to Mr L, I let it know that         
I intended to go ahead and give my decision in order to bring matters to a conclusion for    
Mr L given the length of time this has been ongoing for. And because Id already set out that 
L&C should put things right for him and how it should do this in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I remain of the view that Mr Ls complaint is one that our Service can 
consider and that it should be upheld for the reasons previously set out in my provisional 
decision, which Ive largely repeated below.
Jurisdiction
Before considering the merits of Mr Ls complaint, Ive considered whether he complained 
within the time limits allowed for making complaints. The rules our Service is bound by, 
known as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules  found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) handbook  say in DISP 2.8.2R that, unless the business consents (L&C hasnt), we 
cant consider a complaint if its referred to us:
More than six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
more than three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or
ought reasonably to have become aware) they had cause for complaint.
That is, unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of 
the complaint having been received.
The event complained of  that L&C shouldnt have accepted Mr Ls SIPP and investment 
applications, causing him a loss  took place in 2011. And, as he didnt raise this with L&C 
and then our Service until 2020, it has been referred to us more than six years after the 
event occurred. 
So, Ive gone on to consider whether Mr L referred his complaint more than three years from 
the date on which he either was aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, he had 
cause for complaint. And when I say here cause for complaint, I mean cause to make this 
complaint about this respondent firm, L&C, not just knowledge of cause to complain about 
anyone at all.
The time limits for bringing a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service are set out in 
the DISP section of the FCA Handbook. In The Official Receiver v Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited [EWCA] Civ 367 Singh LJ said:
44. The FCA Handbook is similar in its drafting style to the Financial Services 
Authority's Client Assets Sourcebook (CASS), which was considered by this Court 
in Re Lehman Brothers International (Europe) (No 2) [2010] EWCA Civ 917; [2011] 2 
BCLC 184 

46. For present purposes I derive the following propositions from the judgments in Re 
Lehman Brothers:
 
(1)  Ultimately it is the actual wording of a provision that must govern any decision as 
to its effect.
(2)  The Handbook should be read as a whole, taking an holistic and iterative 
approach, so that a preliminary view on one provision can be tested by reference to 
the rest of the relevant provisions.
(3)  The provision should be construed in the light of its overall purpose.
(4)  It should be construed on the basis that it is intended to produce a practical and 
commercially sensible result. The rules should be taken to be grounded in reality. 
The court should keep in proportion any drafting infelicities.And Nugee LJ said the following in relation to DISP2.8.2R
155.  The resemblance to the ordinary limitation periods for claims in negligence 
where there is also a primary period of 6 years (under s.2 of the Limitation Act 1980 
("LA 1980")) and a secondary period of 3 years from the date of the claimant's actual 
or constructive knowledge (under s.14A LA 1980) is striking. We have in fact been 
shown evidence that this is not a coincidence, but even without this material (which is 
of doubtful admissibility) it would have been a reasonable assumption that the 
general structure was modelled on the LA 1980 provisions and was designed to do 
the same thing in general terms.
156.  What then is the purpose of having these two time-limits? The purpose of an 
ordinary limitation period is to prevent stale claims from being litigated, the period of 
6 years being fixed as a generally reasonable period to bring a claim. This explains 
the primary period. But as is well-known that could and did lead to some claimants 
who had suffered latent injury or damage finding that they had lost their rights to sue 
before they even knew, or could reasonably be expected to know, that they had been 
injured or suffered loss. Provision was therefore made, first in ss.11 and 14 LA 
1980 (applicable to claims for personal injury) and subsequently in s.14A LA 1980 
(applicable to other claims in negligence), for the claimant to have 3 years from his 
date of knowledge to bring a claim. The purpose of this is obvious. It was to remedy 
the injustice of a claimant's claim being time-barred before they knew, or could 
reasonably be expected to know, that they had a claim. On the other hand the 
selection of a (relatively short) 3 year time period shows that another purpose was to 
provide that once they did, or should, have that knowledge they should get on with 
the claim and bring proceedings reasonably promptly. Precisely the same in my view 
applies to the secondary time-limit in DISP 2.8.2R(2)(b). The purpose of the rule is to 
prevent a complainant from losing the right to complain before they are, or ought 
reasonably to be, aware that they have cause for complaint, but to require them to 
pursue the complaint with reasonable promptness once they are, or should be, so 
aware.
The term cause for complaint is not defined in the Handbook. The term complaint (in italics) 
is defined, and it is reasonable to infer in light of the above guidance on interpreting the 
Handbook (and guidance in GEN 2.2.1R in the Handbook: Every provision in the Handbook 
must be interpreted in the light of its purpose.) that the definition of the word complaint, was 
intended to apply to the phrase cause for complaint.
The term complaint is defined for the purposes of DISP in the FCA handbook as:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on 
behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial 
servicewhich:
(a) Alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material 
distress or material inconvenience; and
(b) Relates to an activity of that respondent, or any other respondent with whom that 
respondent has some connection in marketing or providing financial services or 
products which comes under the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
So the Glossary definition of complaint requires that the act or omission complained of must 
relate to an activity of that respondent or firm (my emphasis). Accordingly, the material points required for Mr L to have awareness of a cause for 
complaint include:
awareness of a problem
awareness that the problem had or may have caused her material loss, and
awareness that the problem was or may have been caused by an act or omission of 
L&C (the respondent in this complaint).
It is therefore my view that it is necessary for Mr L to have an awareness (within the meaning 
of the rule) that related to L&C, not just awareness of a problem that had caused a 
loss. Knowledge of a loss alone is not enough. It cannot be assumed that upon obtaining 
knowledge of a loss that a consumer had knowledge of its cause. And I dont accept that the 
three-year time limit necessarily means that knowledge of a loss means that the consumer 
has three years to make enquiries to discover all parties who might be responsible, failing 
which they run out of time to make a complaint. As Nugee LJ said in The Official Receiver 
case the purpose of the rule is to prevent a complainant from losing the right to complain 
before they are, or ought reasonably to be, aware that they have cause for complaint, but to 
require them to pursue the complaint with reasonable promptness once they are, or should 
be, so aware.
So, there are a number of points that I think are relevant here:
In order to be aware of cause for complaint the complainant should reasonably know 
there is a problem, that they have or may suffer loss or damage, and that someone 
else is responsible for the problem  and who that someone is, as the respondent to 
the complaint. Knowledge of a loss or damage alone is not enough. It cant be 
assumed that upon obtaining knowledge of a loss a consumer had knowledge of its 
cause. So to have knowledge of his cause for complaint about L&C, Mr L had to be 
aware, or be in a position where he ought reasonably to have become aware, that 
there was a problem which had or may have caused him loss or damage and that 
L&C was or might be responsible for this.
Ive taken into account that Mr L was sent information about the problems with the 
SA investment  including those about the lack of title and returns being illusory, as 
well as statements and other correspondence which showed this had a nil value 
from 2012. But, even if Mr L was aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, 
there was a problem with his investment that had caused him some loss or damage, 
Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr L was aware, or ought reasonably to have become 
aware, that L&C had responsibility for the position he was in more than three years 
before he complained to it in 2020.  
L&C has said, amongst other things, that the information Mr L was sent about the 
problems with the SA investment ought to have been sufficient to give him concern to 
investigate if this should have been accepted into his SIPP and to question its due 
diligence process. But Ive seen no evidence that Mr L was sent or told anything 
more than three years before his complaint was referred to L&C in 2020, that made 
him aware or ought to have indicated to him, or a reasonable retail investor in his 
position, that L&C might have done something wrong and caused him to think it had 
responsibility either wholly or in part for the position he was in  the position of having 
a SIPP with investments in it that had suffered losses. 
I think its worth highlighting that the relationship between L&C and Mr L is different to 
an adviser/client relationship. Mr L wasnt advised by L&C about setting up the SIPP 
or the suitability of the investments. So if the investment was disappointing the obvious first thought when losses were suffered would have been that his financial 
adviser might have given poor advice and Mr L would reasonably have considered 
RealSIPP to have been responsible. 
Mr L has said that he approached his representative in September 2018, concerned 
about his investment and that people were losing money and this resulted in his 
complaint being made against CIB via the FSCS in May 2019. Mr L received the 
outcome for this in January 2020 and made his complaint to L&C the following 
month, seemingly as he had a balance of loss outstanding. 
As Ive said, Ive seen no evidence that Mr L was aware or had been told by any 
party, and more than three years prior to his representative raising a complaint with 
L&C in February 2020, that it may have done something wrong and might be wholly 
or partly responsible for the position he was in. It seems likely that Mr L was made 
aware of this at some point by representative, given he also later made his complaint 
to L&C via it. And Mr L made his complaint to L&C in 2020, which was within three 
years of when hes said he first approached his representative in September 2018. 
As set out below, the FCA published reports on the results of two thematic reviews 
on SIPP operators in 2009 and 2012, issued guidance for SIPP operators in 2013 
and wrote to the CEOs of SIPP operators in 2014. A common theme of those 
communications is that the FCA considered that SIPP operators had obligations in 
relation to their customers even where they dont give advice, and that many SIPP 
operators had a poor understanding of those obligations.  
I dont think Mr L would need to have understood the details of a SIPP providers 
obligations to have been aware (or in a position whereby she ought reasonably to 
have been aware) of her cause for complaint. But I think Mr L would have needed to 
have actual or constructive awareness that an act or omission of L&C had a 
causative role in the loss. And I dont think there was any information available to    
Mr L more than three years before his complaint was made to L&C that ought 
reasonably to have made him aware that he could attribute her problem to acts or 
omissions by L&C.
Ive carefully considered all the evidence weve been provided and, on balance, I dont think 
Mr Ls circumstances were such that a reasonable investor in his position ought to have 
concluded that L&C had done something wrong more than three years before his complaint 
was raised with it. 
And, I dont think that Mr L was aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, that he 
had cause for complaint against L&C more than three years before his complaint was 
referred to it. So Im satisfied this complaint has been brought in time and that its one we 
can consider.
The due diligence L&C carried out
When deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I need 
to take account of relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I think was good industry practice at the 
relevant time. 
While Ive considered the entirety of the detailed submissions the parties have provided, my 
decision focuses on what I consider to be the central issues. The purpose of my decision isnt to comment on every point or question made, rather its to set out my decision and 
reasons for reaching it. 
Relevant considerations
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G  at the relevant 
date). Principles 2, 3 and 6 provide: 
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence. 
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems. 
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162: 
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirements they cover. The 
general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said: 
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules. 
In BBSAL, Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the decision of an 
Ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The Ombudsman 
considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. He concluded 
that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due diligence in 
respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it had done so, 
it would have refused to accept the investment. The Ombudsman found Berkeley Burke had 
therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and hadnt treated its client fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL): 
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of the FSMA and the approach an 
Ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the Ombudsman in that complaint, which 
Ive described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a decision on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments when making this decision on Mr Ls case. 
I note that the Principles for Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the Principles to 
SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither judgment says anything about 
how the Principles apply to an Ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be clear,  
I dont say this means Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive taken 
account of both judgments when making my decision on Mr Ls case. 
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim, on the basis he was seeking to advance a case that was radically different to that 
found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal didnt so 
much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS 
claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
I think there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by    
Mr Adams (summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment) and the issues in 
Mr Ls complaint. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual relationship between 
the parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 2.1.1R that happened 
after the contract was entered into. And he wasnt asked to consider the question of due 
diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the investment into its SIPP.
And in Mr Ls complaint, amongst other things, Im considering whether L&C ought to have 
identified that the SA investment involved a significant risk of consumer detriment and, if so, 
whether it ought to have declined to accept applications from RealSIPP and/or applications 
to invest in SA before it accepted Mr Ls application. 
The facts of Mr Adams and Mr Ls cases are also different. And I need to construe the 
duties L&C owed to Mr L under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific facts of his case. So Ive 
considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and 
within the factual context of Mr Ls case, including L&Cs role in the transaction.
However, its important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference to 
what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in doing that, Im 
required to take into account relevant considerations which include: law and regulations; 
regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what   
I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is a clear and 
relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in Adams v Options 
SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in Mr Adams 
statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise that I dont say that L&C was under any obligation to advise Mr L 
on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an application because it 
came about as a result of advice given by a firm which didnt have the required permissions 
to be giving that advice, and had been introduced by that same firm, isnt the same thing as 
advising Mr L on the merits of investing and/or transferring to the SIPP. 
So, Im satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to be 
considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Mr Ls case.   
The regulatory publications 
The FCA issued a number of publications which reminded SIPP operators of their 
obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes envisaged by the 
Principles, namely: 
The 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review reports. 
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance. 
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter. 
Ive considered the relevance of these publications. And Ive set out material parts of the
publications here, although Ive considered them in their entirety.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged 
to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member 
of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of 
Principle 6 includes clients. 
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes. 
 
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect 
them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the members to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients. 
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP 
operators who do not safeguard their customers interests in this respect, with 
reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems). 
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to 
firms: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning 
notices. 
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business. 
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified. 
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would 
enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their 
adviser, if it is concerned about the suitability of what was recommended. 
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the 
reasons for this.
Ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are 
correctly drawn-up and legally enforceable).
Ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently.
Ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous 
investors have received income if expected, or that any investment providers 
are credit worthy etc).
The later publications 
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA stated: 
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007. 
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 
6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a 
SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF 
consumer outcomes. 
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following: 
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, 
nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear 
on the FCA website listings for unauthorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of 
the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, 
the levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of 
investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small 
or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares 
which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it 
has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP 
business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm 
with, is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to 
launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern 
relationships and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other 
professional bodies such as solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP 
operators have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business 
from nonregulated introducers 
In relation to due diligence, the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, 
or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed 
and the tax charge paid periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications 
and skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected parties and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm 
to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been 
approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. 
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by: 
correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment 
ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation 
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable) 
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of 
purchase and subsequently, and 
ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors 
have received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit 
worthy etc.) 
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications to illustrate the relevance, Ive 
considered these in their entirety.
These publications provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it treats its customers fairly and produces the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The publications indicated that the regulatory obligations of SIPP operators include doing 
due diligence checks on parties who introduce clients to SIPP operators and on the 
investments that SIPP operators allow to be held in SIPPs.
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter arent formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean the importance of these 
should be underestimated. These provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses 
apply and are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure its 
treating its customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, the publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators 
should be doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry 
practice, and Im therefore satisfied its appropriate to take these into account. 
Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to good industry practice in the BBSAL case, 
the Ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a long way to 
clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the judge in 
BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the Ombudsman. 
At its introduction the 2009 Thematic Review Report says:
In this report, we describe the findings of this thematic review, and make clear what
we expect of SIPP operator firms in the areas we reviewed. It also provides 
examples of good practices we found.
And, as referenced above, the report goes on to provide examples of measures that
SIPP operators could consider, taken from examples of good practice that we observed and
suggestions we have made to firms.
So, Im satisfied that the 2009 Report is a reminder that the Principles apply and it gives an 
indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. The Report set out 
the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be doing and therefore indicates 
what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant time. So I remain satisfied 
its relevant and therefore appropriate to take it into account.
To be clear, I think the Report is also directed at firms like L&C acting purely as SIPP 
operators. The Report says that We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of 
whether they provide advice, are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses 
And its noted prior to the good practice examples quoted above that We agree that firms 
acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice given by third 
parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot absolve 
themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs.
The remainder of the publications also provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses 
apply and are an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is 
treating its customers fairly and to produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that 
respect, these publications also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good 
industry practice at the relevant time. I therefore remain satisfied its appropriate to take 
these into account too.Like the Ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact the publications, (other than 
the 2009 Thematic Review Report), post-date the events that took place in relation to Mr Ls 
complaint, mean that the examples of good practice they provide werent good practice at 
the time of the relevant events. Although the later publications were published after the 
events subject to this complaint, the Principles that underpin these existed throughout, as did 
the obligation to act in accordance with the Principles. 
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review Reports (and the Dear 
CEO letter in 2014) that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the 
recommended good practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the 
regulators comments suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good 
practice standards shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its 
clear the standards themselves hadnt changed.
I note that the judge in Adams didnt consider the 2012 Thematic Review Report, 2013 SIPP 
operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of relevance to his consideration of    
Mr Adams claim. But it doesnt follow that those publications are irrelevant to my 
consideration of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im 
required to take into account good industry practice at the relevant time. And, as mentioned, 
the publications indicate what I consider to amount to good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider L&Cs 
actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave 
non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They didnt say the suggestions given were the 
limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what 
should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances. 
The regulator also issued an alert in 2013 about advisers giving advice to consumers on 
SIPPs without consideration of the underlying investment to be held in the SIPP. The alert 
(Advising on pension transfers with a view to investing pension monies into unregulated 
products through a SIPP) set out that this type of restricted advice didnt meet regulatory 
requirements. It said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving 
advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new 
pension. In particular, we have seen financial advisers moving customers retirement 
savings to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in 
high risk, often highly illiquid unregulated investments (some which may be in 
Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes).
 
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that 
this process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part 
of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability 
of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given 
on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and 
other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the 
wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. 
The alert post-dates the events in this complaint  but, again, it didnt set new standards. It highlighted that advisers using the restricted advice model discussed in the alert generally 
werent meeting existing regulatory requirements and set out the regulators concerns about 
industry practices at the time.
To be clear, I dont say the Principles or the publications obliged L&C to ensure the 
transactions were suitable for Mr L. Its accepted L&C wasnt required to and couldnt give 
advice to Mr L. And I accept the publications dont alter the meaning of, or the scope of, the 
Principles. But as Ive said above these are evidence of what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the outcomes envisaged by 
the Principles. And so its fair and reasonable for me to take them into account when 
deciding this complaint.
Id also add that, even I took the view  which I dont  that any publications or guidance that 
post-dated the events subject of this complaint dont help to clarify the type of good industry 
practice that existed at the relevant time (which I dont), that doesnt alter my view on what    
I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Thats because I find that the 
2009 Report together with the Principles provide a very clear indication of what L&C could 
and should have done to comply with its regulatory obligations that existed at the relevant 
time before accepting Mr Ls application and allowing the SA investment into the SIPP.
Its important to keep in mind the judge in Adams didnt consider the regulatory publications 
in the context of considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, bearing in 
mind various matters including the Principles (as part of the regulators rules) or good 
industry practice.
And in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr Ls 
application to establish a SIPP and to invest in SA, L&C complied with its regulatory 
obligations: to act with due skill, care and diligence; to take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively; to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly; and to act honestly, fairly and professionally. In doing that, 
Im looking to the Principles and the publications listed above to provide an indication of what 
L&C should have done to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
Im deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and for all 
the reasons Ive set out above Im satisfied that the Principles and the publications listed 
above are relevant considerations to this decision. So taking account of the factual context of 
this case, I think that in order for L&C to meet its regulatory obligations, (under the Principles 
and COBS 2.1.1R), amongst other things it should have undertaken sufficient due diligence 
into RealSIPP/the business RealSIPP was introducing and the SA investment before 
deciding to accept Mr Ls applications. 
Ultimately, Ill be looking whether L&C took reasonable care, acted with due diligence and 
treated Mr L fairly, in accordance with his best interests. And what I think is fair and 
reasonable in light of that. And I think the key issue in Mr Ls complaint is whether it was fair 
and reasonable for L&C to have accepted his SIPP application and/or his application to 
invest his SIPP monies into SA in the first place. So, I need to consider whether L&C carried 
out appropriate due diligence checks on RealSIPP and SA before deciding to do so.
And the questions I need to consider include whether L&C ought to, acting fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, have identified that
consumers introduced by RealSIPP and/or investing in SA were being put at significant 
risk of detriment. And, if so, whether L&C should therefore not have accepted Mr Ls 
application from RealSIPP and/or permitted Mr Ls SIPP monies to be invested into SA. 
The contract between L&C and Mr L My decision is made on the understanding that L&C acted purely as a SIPP operator. I dont 
say L&C should (or could) have given advice to Mr L or otherwise have ensured the 
suitability of the SIPP or SA investment for him. I accept that L&C made it clear to Mr L that it 
wasnt giving, nor was it able to give, advice and that it played an execution-only role in his 
SIPP investments. And that forms Mr L signed confirmed, amongst other things, that losses 
arising as a result of L&C acting on his instructions were his responsibility.
Ive not overlooked or discounted the basis on which L&C was appointed. And my decision 
on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ls case is made with all of this in 
mind. So, Ive proceeded on the understanding that L&C wasnt obliged  and wasnt able  
to give advice to Mr L on the suitability of the SIPP or SA investment. But I remain satisfied 
that, to meet its regulatory obligations when conducting its operation of SIPPs business, L&C 
had to decide whether to accept introductions of business and/or investments with the 
Principles in mind. And I dont agree that it couldnt have rejected introductions or 
applications without contravening its regulatory permissions by giving investment advice.
What did L&Cs obligations mean in practice?
The business L&C was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. The regulatory publications 
provided some examples of good industry practice observed by the FCA during its work with 
SIPP operators, including being satisfied that it should accept applications from a particular 
introducer, and being satisfied that a particular investment is an appropriate one to accept. 
So Im satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, when 
conducting its business, L&C was required to consider whether to accept or reject particular 
referrals of business and particular applications for investment in its SIPPs.
L&C was under a regulatory obligation to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence, organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, and pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers (including Mr L) and treat them fairly. Its obligations and duties 
in this respect werent prescriptive and depended on the nature of the circumstances, 
information and events on an ongoing basis.
And I think L&C understood this at the time too, as Ive seen on the complaint which was the 
subject of published decision reference DRN-3587366 that it did more than just check the 
FCA entries for RealSIPP and CIB to ensure they were regulated to give advice. It also 
entered into intermediary agreements with those firms. And its apparent that L&C had 
access to some information about the type and volume of introductions it was receiving from 
RealSIPP, as it has previously been able to provide us with information about this when 
requested.
So, I think L&C ought to have understood before it received Mr Ls application that its 
obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out appropriate checks on 
RealSIPP/CIB to ensure the quality of the business it was introducing. And I think L&C also 
ought to have understood that its obligations meant that it had a responsibility to carry out 
appropriate due diligence on investments, like the SA investment, before accepting them into 
its SIPPs.
So Im satisfied that, to meet its regulatory obligations when conducting its business, L&C 
was also required to consider whether to accept or reject a particular investment (here SA), 
with the Principles in mind.
L&Cs due diligence on RealSIPPIve looked at evidence L&C has provided to show what due diligence checks it did on 
RealSIPP and what conclusions it drew from any checks it did. Including the evidence it 
gave us on the complaint that was the subject of published decision reference DRN3587366, 
which was about L&C accepting an introduction from RealSIPP in November 2011. The 
evidence L&C gave us shows that, by the time it accepted Mr Ls application, L&C had:
checked the FCA register to ensure RealSIPP and its principal were regulated and 
authorised to give financial advice.
entered into intermediary agreements with RealSIPP and its principal.
And, prior to accepting Mr Ls application, L&C also had access to some information about 
the type and volume of introductions it was receiving from RealSIPP.
These steps go some way towards meeting L&Cs regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice. But I think L&C failed to conduct sufficient due diligence on RealSIPP before 
accepting business from it, or L&C failed to draw fair and reasonable conclusions from what 
it did know about RealSIPP. I think L&C ought reasonably to have concluded it shouldnt 
accept business from RealSIPP, and it should have ended its relationship with RealSIPP 
before Mr L made his application. I say this because:
L&C was aware or should have been aware of potential risks of consumer detriment 
associated with business introduced by RealSIPP by the time of Mr Ls application, 
as: 
oConsumers were being introduced to L&C by RealSIPP without having been 
given full regulated advice (that is advice on the transfer or switch to the SIPP 
and advice on the intended investment).
oThe introductions had anomalous features  high-risk business, in relatively 
high volumes, for unregulated overseas property developments and other 
esoteric investments. And, even though RealSIPP had the necessary 
permissions to give full advice on the business it was introducing, it wasnt 
giving any advice on a large proportion of that business. 
L&C shouldve taken steps to address these risks (or, given these risks, have simply 
declined to deal further with RealSIPP).
Such steps should have involved getting a fuller understanding of RealSIPPs 
business model  through requesting information from RealSIPP and through 
independent checks.
Such understanding wouldve revealed there was a significant risk of consumer 
detriment associated with introductions of business from RealSIPP.
In the alternative RealSIPP would have been unwilling to answer or fully answer the 
questions about its business model.
In either event L&C shouldve concluded it shouldnt accept introductions from 
RealSIPP.
Ive set out below some more detail on the potential risks of consumer detriment L&C either 
knew about or ought to have known about at the time of Mr Ls application. These points 
overlap, to a degree, and should have been considered by L&C cumulatively.Volume of business
Its clear that L&C had access to information about the number and nature of introductions 
that RealSIPP made, as its been able to provide us with details about this when requested. 
An example of good practice identified in the FSAs 2009 review was: 
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) and size 
of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and introduce clients to the 
firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified. 
Given all that Ive said above, I dont think simply keeping records without scrutinising the 
information would be consistent with good industry practice and L&Cs regulatory 
obligations. As highlighted in the 2009 review, the reason why the records are important is 
so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified. 
During our investigation of the complaint that was the subject of the published decision, L&C 
said 153 members were introduced by RealSIPP, 44 of whom were introduced in the nine 
months before the consumer in that decision established their L&C SIPP in November 2011, 
which I note was only weeks after Mr Ls business was introduced to it in mid-October 2011. 
L&C also said that 44 of the total introductions involved members with an Occupational 
Pension Scheme. 
And, on another previous complaint, back in January 2018, L&C said that RealSIPPs 
introductions were made between February 2011 and May 2013. Further, that RealSIPP was 
involved with a number of investments across members SIPPs and that all of these 
investments would be considered Non- standard by FCA definition. L&C provided a list of 
the investments concerned and confirmed that in 77 cases RealSIPP received fees but didnt 
advise on the SIPP.
L&C confirmed in information provided in respect of Mr Ls complaint that a total of 160 
clients were introduced by RealSIPP. And that following a sample of 20% of the total number 
of these, 99.94% were from occupational pension schemes. L&C also said all investors 
invested in overseas commercial properties. And that, during the course of the agreement 
with RealSIPP, 23% of L&Cs total new business came from its (RealSIPPs) introductions. 
L&C has clarified that by the time of Mr Ls application, RealSIPP had already introduced 32 
applications to it. So I think its clear that by that point L&C had received a number of 
introductions from RealSIPP over a period of around eight months.
I think L&C shouldve been concerned that such a volume of introductions, relating 
exclusively to consumers investing in higher-risk esoteric investments, was unusual  
particularly from a small IFA business like RealSIPP. And it should have considered how a 
small IFA business introducing this volume of higher-risk business was able to meet 
regulatory standards. This was a clear and obvious potential risk of consumer detriment.
RealSIPP was introducing consumers who were investing in high-risk non-standard assets
RealSIPP was introducing consumers who were all investing in high-risk non-standard 
esoteric holdings, such as the unregulated overseas property development and the 
unregulated overseas forestry scheme that Mr L invested in. As mentioned, I think its fair to 
say that such investments are highly unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of retail 
clients. They will generally only be suitable for a small proportion of the population  
sophisticated and/or high net worth investors. 
So, I think L&C either was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, that the type of 
business RealSIPP was introducing was high-risk and therefore carried a potential risk of consumer detriment on this basis too.
High proportion of execution-only business
The available evidence shows that before L&C accepted Mr Ls application it was, or should 
have been, aware that not offering or giving advice was something RealSIPP was doing 
routinely. 
Its clear that L&C had access to information about the number and nature of introductions 
that RealSIPP made, as its been able to provide us with details about this when requested 
in relation to the other complaint Ive mentioned. An example of good practice identified in 
the FCAs 2009 Thematic Review Report was:
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
So I dont think simply keeping records without scrutinising that information would be 
consistent with good industry practice and L&Cs regulatory obligations. As highlighted in the 
2009 Thematic Review Report, the reason why the records are important is so that 
potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
From the figures L&C provided, a little under half the introductions from RealSIPP were 
transacted as execution-only business (i.e. with no advice being given by RealSIPP). Thats 
a large proportion of the total business RealSIPP introduced. And, bearing in mind what Ive 
said about the timing of Mr Ls introduction to L&C, I think its likely that RealSIPP had 
introduced business to L&C without providing advice on a number of occasions before his 
application was received. 
So I think that, from very early on, L&C ought to have been on notice that RealSIPP, 
although the appointed representative of a regulated business that had permissions to 
advise on all the business being introduced, wasnt a firm that was doing things in a 
conventional way. And I think L&C ought to have recognised that there was a risk here that 
RealSIPP might be choosing to introduce some consumers not only without them being 
given full regulated advice but also without them having been offered full regulated advice.
I think this ought to have been a red flag for L&C in its dealings with RealSIPP, as its highly 
unusual for regulated advice firms to be involved in execution-only transactions involving 
pension transfers to invest in high-risk esoteric investments, such as unregulated overseas 
forestry schemes. Thats because the risks involved in such transactions are unlikely to be 
fully understood by most people, without obtaining regulated advice. I think its fair to say 
that most advice firms decline to be involved in such transactions and certainly dont transact 
this kind of business in significant volumes. 
I think L&C ought to have viewed this as a serious cause for concern  this was a further 
clear and obvious potential risk of consumer detriment.
The availability of advice to Mr L
Ive seen from evidence provided on the complaint that was the subject of the published 
decision that L&C entered into intermediary agreements with RealSIPP and its principal, 
CIB. As part of this process, it was open to L&C to enquire whether full regulated advice 
would be made available to applicants introduced to L&C by RealSIPP/CIB. No 
correspondence Ive seen between L&C and RealSIPP mentioned this.Mr Ls SIPP application didnt say whether or not he had been given advice at the point of 
sale. Ive seen no evidence that Mr L was offered full regulated advice on his switch to and 
investment in the SIPP. And RealSIPPs website from around the time of Mr Ls investment 
said it didnt provide individual financial advice on any of the developments in which clients 
may wish to invest.
Having carefully considered the available evidence I think its most likely that Mr L wasnt 
offered full regulated advice by RealSIPP or its principal (or any other regulated advisory 
firm) on the transactions this complaint concerns.
So based on the available evidence I think there was insufficient basis for L&C to reasonably 
assume that advice had been given or offered to Mr L at the point it received and reviewed 
his application, or had been made available to Mr L and declined. The details L&C has 
provided to us about the type of introductions it recieved from RealSIPP demonstrates that 
L&C was, or should have been, aware that not offering or giving advice was something 
RealSIPP was doing routinely. And, based on the available evidence and on what L&C 
ought to have identified from the pattern of business introduced to it by RealSIPP from 
outset, I dont think there would have been sufficient basis for L&C to reasonably assume at 
the point it recieved and reviewed Mr Ls application that full regulated advice had been 
given or offered to Mr L by RealSIPP.
The possibility no regulated advice had been given or made available was a clear and 
obvious potential risk of consumer detriment here. Mr L was switching his pension to invest 
entirely in an esoteric overseas unregulated forestry scheme  a move which was highly 
unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of retail clients. 
What fair and reasonable steps should L&C have taken in the circumstances?
L&C could simply have concluded that, given the potential risks of consumer detriment  
which I think were clear and obvious at the time  it shouldnt have continued to accept 
applications from RealSIPP and before it received Mr Ls application. That would have been 
a fair and reasonable step to take in the circumstances. Alternatively, L&C could have taken 
fair and reasonable steps to address the potential risks of consumer detriment. Ive set these 
out below.
Requesting information directly from RealSIPP
Given the significant potential risk of consumer detriment I think that, as part of its due 
diligence on RealSIPP, L&C ought to have found out more about how RealSIPP was 
operating before it accepted Mr Ls application. And mindful of the type of introductions 
it was receiving from RealSIPP at the outset, I think its fair and reasonable to expect L&C, in 
line with its regulatory obligations, to have made some specific enquiries and obtained 
information about RealSIPPs business model.
As set out above, the 2009 Thematic Review explained that the regulator would expect SIPP 
operators to have procedures and controls, and for management information to be gathered 
and analysed, so as to enable the identification of, amongst other things, consumer 
detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Further, that this could then be addressed in an 
appropriate manner for example by contacting the members to confirm the position, or by 
contacting the firm giving advice and asking for clarification.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP guidance gave an example of good practice as:
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm,
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels ofbusiness they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with.
And I think that L&C, prior to accepting Mr Ls application, shouldve checked with RealSIPP 
about: how it came into contact with potential clients, what agreements it had in place with its 
clients, whether all of the clients it was introducing were being offered full regulated advice, 
what its arrangements with any unregulated businesses promoting investments were, how 
and why retail clients were interested in making these esoteric investments, whether it was 
aware of anyone else providing information to clients, how it was able to meet with or speak 
with all its clients, and what material was being provided to clients by it. 
I think its more likely than not that if L&C had asked RealSIPP for this type of information 
that RealSIPP wouldve then provided a full response to the information sought. And I think 
its most likely that the position suggested on RealSIPPs website wouldve been confirmed  
i.e. that it didnt provide full advice and only provided generic information on the 
considerations and risks associated with property investment.
L&C might say it didnt have to obtain this information from RealSIPP. But I think this was a 
fair and reasonable step to take, in the circumstances, to meet its regulatory obligations and 
good industry practice.
Making independent checks
I think, in light of what Ive said above, it would also have been fair and reasonable for L&C 
to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry practice, to have taken independent 
steps to satisfy itself that full regulated advice was being offered to applicants like Mr L. For 
example, it couldve asked for copies of correspondence in which applicants were being 
offered advice.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report said:
we would expect [SIPP operators] to have procedures and controls, and to be 
gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to identify possible 
instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such 
instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm 
giving advice and asking for clarification. (bold my emphasis)
The 2009 Thematic Review Report also said that an example of good practice was:
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
So I think it wouldve been fair and reasonable for L&C to speak to some applicants, like 
Mr L, directly and to ask whether theyd been offered full regulated advice on their 
transactions and/or seek copies of the suitability reports. 
L&C might say it couldnt comment on advice without potentially being in breach of its 
permissions. Again, I confirm that I accept L&C couldnt give advice. But it had to take 
reasonable steps to meet its regulatory obligations. And in my view such steps included 
addressing a potential risk of consumer detriment by speaking to applicants and/or having 
sight of advice letters, as this could have provided L&C with further insight into RealSIPPs business model, and helped to clarify to L&C whether full regulated advice on the overall 
proposition was being offered/given. This was a fair and reasonable step to take in reaction 
to the clear and obvious risks of consumer detriment Ive mentioned.
Had it taken these fair and reasonable steps, what should L&C have concluded?
If L&C had undertaken these steps I think it ought to have identified, amongst others, the 
following risks before it received Mr Ls application:
RealSIPP was presenting itself publicly (on its website) as providing only generic 
information on the considerations and risks and not providing advice about any of 
the developments in which clients may wish to invest.
Consumers were being introduced to L&C without having been offered full regulated 
advice.
The other anomalous features Ive mentioned did carry a significant risk of consumer 
detriment.
Each of these in isolation is very serious, but cumulatively I think they demonstrate that there 
was a significant risk of consumer detriment associated with introductions from RealSIPP. 
L&C ought to have concluded RealSIPP had a disregard for its consumers best interests, 
and wasnt meeting many of its regulatory obligations.
Had L&C carried out the type of due diligence Ive mentioned above, I think it should have 
identified that consumers like Mr L introduced by RealSIPP hadnt been offered, or received, 
full regulated advice from RealSIPP on their transactions.
As previously stated, RealSIPP said it provided generic information about investments, 
rather than advice. And Ive seen no evidence suggesting it ever offered full regulated advice 
to Mr L. This raises significant questions about the motivations and competency of 
RealSIPP. 
I think that if L&C had made enquiries with some applicants introduced by RealSIPP at the 
time, their responses wouldve been consistent with what RealSIPP had disclosed on its 
website in relation to the extent of its role.
I therefore think L&C ought to have concluded that RealSIPP clients like Mr L, didnt have 
full regulated advice made available to them by RealSIPP. And have viewed this as a 
significant point of concern. As retail consumers were transferring their existing pension 
monies to L&C to invest entirely in higher-risk esoteric investments, including unregulated 
overseas property developments, and an unregulated overseas forestry scheme, without the 
benefit of having been offered full regulated advice, by a business which appeared to be 
actively avoiding any responsibility to give advice.
With the above in mind, L&C should also have concluded that the overall volume of business 
and the proportion of consumers who werent apparently receiving any advice raised further 
serious questions about the motivation and competency of RealSIPP.
As such, I think L&C should have concluded  certainly by the time of Mr Ls application  
that it wasnt in accordance with its obligations to accept introductions from RealSIPP.           
I therefore conclude that its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to say that L&C 
shouldnt have accepted Mr Ls application from RealSIPP.
L&C didnt act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and control its affairs responsibly, or treat Mr L fairly by accepting his application from RealSIPP. To my mind, L&C didnt meet 
its regulatory obligations or good industry practice at the relevant time, and allowed Mr L to 
be put at significant risk of detriment as a result.
L&Cs due diligence on the SA investment
As Ive set out above, I think that if L&C had carried out due diligence on RealSIPP which 
was consistent with its regulatory obligations and the standards of good practice at the time 
then it ought to have concluded that it shouldnt accept applications from RealSIPP at all and 
before it received Mr Ls application. So I dont necessarily need to consider the due 
diligence on the SA investment. But I have, for completeness, considered what L&C did and 
ought to have done and concluded in relation to the SA investment.
L&C had a duty to conduct due diligence and give thought to whether an investment itself is 
acceptable for inclusion in a SIPP. Thats consistent with the Principles and the regulators 
publications as set out earlier in this decision. Its also consistent with HMRC rules that 
govern what investments can be held in a SIPP.
Taking into account the available evidence and the relevant considerations Ive described, 
and whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case my view is that L&C should, 
at least, have done the following:
Identified SA as a high-risk, speculative and non-standard investment, so it should 
have carried out sufficient due diligence
Considered whether SA was appropriate for a pension scheme
Ensured the investment was genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent activity
Independently verified that SAs assets were real and secure, and the investment 
operated as claimed
Ensured the investment could be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently
Ensured Mr Ls SIPP wouldnt become a vehicle for a high-risk and speculative 
investment that wasnt a secure asset and could be a scam.
L&C has said that it did a range of due diligence activities on the SA investment. But had 
L&C carried out due diligence checks on these points it would have been aware of concerns 
regarding the SA investment which indicated a significant risk of consumer detriment. I say 
that because, for example:
SA purported to offer a very high return through oil produced by jatropha trees. There 
appears to have been no basis for the high projected return. I dont expect L&C to 
have been able to say the investment would be successful. But a high projected 
return without any apparent basis should have given L&C cause to question the 
investments credibility.
There was information available which called into question the viability of the 
proposed business model (particularly in light of the very high projected returns).
There was negative commentary in the public domain about investments that 
purported to offer high returns through investment in jatropha plants. Some of these articles warned investors against being seduced by high returns that might not be 
achievable, and questioned whether it was possible to make money from growing 
jatropha at all.
SA had no track record.
SAs first accounts which had been published on 6 October 2011 were subject to a 
qualified opinion from the auditors, which means there was some limitation or 
exception to accounting standards. The auditor said, we have not obtained all the 
information and explanations that we consider necessary for the purpose of our audit 
and adequate accounting records have not been kept by [SA] as required by the 
Companies Act 2006.
Its not clear how the lease of a parcel of land in Cambodia could be valued or 
realised.
The investment was based overseas and would be subject to the domestic laws and 
regulations that apply to the ownership of land and matters governing investments. 
That created additional risk.
The lease and rental agreements L&C signed for the investment didnt specify the 
location of the plots L&C would lease on behalf of Mr L. They said beneficial 
ownership of the plots would be evidenced by a Certificate of Leasehold and didnt 
offer any evidence of title held by the lessor.
SA didnt have title to the land, so if L&C had done the check it said it did on title to 
the asset it ought to have concluded that title wouldnt be obtained.
The information that was available to L&C, and which would have come to light had it 
undertaken adequate checks, ought to have led L&C to the following conclusions: 
SA didnt have title to the land.
There was a risk the investment might be fraudulent  it wasnt clear how such high 
returns could be offered.
The land leases, if they existed, might have been difficult to independently value, 
both at point of purchase and subsequently. It was also possible that there might be 
no market for them. So an investor might not have been able to take benefits from 
their pension, or make changes to it, if they wanted to.
The investment in SA would allow L&Cs clients SIPPs to become a vehicle for a 
high-risk and speculative investment that wasnt a secure asset and could have been 
a scam.
Im satisfied L&C shouldve identified a number of the concerns Ive mentioned, and 
ought to have drawn the conclusion Ive set out, based on what was known at the time. L&C 
ought to have identified significant points of concern, which ought to have led it to conclude it 
should not accept the SA investment. It ought to have identified that there was a high risk of 
consumer detriment here. And its the failure of L&Cs due diligence thats resulted in Mr L 
being treated unfairly and unreasonably.
To my mind, L&C didnt meet its regulatory obligations or good industry practice at the 
relevant time. I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that L&C didnt act with due skill, care and diligence, and it didnt treat Mr L fairly, by accepting the SA investment in his SIPP. 
Theres a difference between accepting or rejecting a particular investment for a SIPP and 
advising on its suitability for the individual investor. I accept that L&C wasnt expected to, nor 
was it able to, give advice to Mr L on the suitability of the SIPP and/or SA investment for him 
personally. To be clear, Im not making a finding that L&C should have assessed the 
suitability of the SA investment for Mr L. I accept L&C had no obligation to give advice to 
Mr L, or to ensure otherwise the suitability of an investment for him.
So my finding isnt that L&C should have concluded that Mr L wasnt a candidate for high 
risk investments. Its that L&C should have concluded the SA investment wasnt acceptable 
for its SIPPs and it thereby failed to treat Mr L fairly or act with due skill, care and diligence 
when accepting the SA investment into his SIPP.
I think its important I emphasise here that Im not saying that L&C should necessarily have 
discovered everything that later became known had it undertaken sufficient due diligence 
before accepting the SA investment into its SIPP. But I do think that appropriate checks 
would have revealed some fundamental issues which were, in and of themselves, sufficient 
basis for L&C to have declined to accept the SA investment in its SIPPs.
Summary of what Ive decided and why
For the reasons given above, L&C shouldnt have accepted Mr Ls application to invest in 
SA. And, to be clear, even if I thought L&C had undertaken adequate due diligence on 
RealSIPP and acted appropriately in accepting Mr Ls business from RealSIPP (which, as 
Ive explained earlier, I dont), Id still consider it fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ls 
complaint on the basis that L&C didnt act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and 
control its affairs responsibly, or treat Mr L fairly, by accepting the SA investment into his 
SIPP. 
I make this point here to emphasise that while Ive concluded both that L&C shouldnt have 
accepted Mr Ls business from RealSIPP and also that it shouldnt have accepted his 
application to invest in SA, had I only reached the conclusions Ive set out above on one of 
those aspects and not also gone on to reach findings on the other aspect for completeness, 
I'd still consider it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to uphold this complaint. 
Thats because L&C didnt act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and control its 
affairs responsibly, or treat Mr L fairly by accepting his business from RealSIPP. And 
because, separately, L&C also didnt act with due skill, care and diligence, organise and 
control its affairs responsibly, or treat Mr L fairly, by accepting the SA investment into his 
SIPP. And to my mind, L&C didnt meet its regulatory obligations or good industry practice at 
the relevant times, and allowed Mr L to be put at significant risk of detriment as a result.
Was it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for L&C to proceed with Mr Ls 
application?
For the reasons previously given above, I think L&C should have refused to accept Mr Ls 
application from RealSIPP. So things shouldnt have got beyond that.
L&C has referred to forms Mr L signed. In my view its fair and reasonable to say that just 
having Mr L sign indemnity declarations wasnt an effective way for L&C to meet its 
regulatory obligations to treat him fairly, given the concerns L&C ought to have had about his 
introduction.
L&C knew that Mr L had signed forms intended to indemnify it against losses that arose from 
acting on his instructions. And, in my opinion, relying on such indemnities when L&C knew, or ought to have known, Mr Ls dealings with RealSIPP were putting him at significant risk 
wasnt the fair and reasonable thing to do. 
Having identified the risks Ive mentioned above, its my view that the fair and reasonable 
thing to do would have been to refuse to accept Mr Ls application.
The Principles exist to ensure regulated firms treat their clients fairly. And I dont think the 
paperwork Mr L signed meant that L&C could ignore its duty to treat him fairly. Im satisfied 
that indemnities contained within the contractual documents dont absolve, nor do they 
attempt to absolve, L&C of its regulatory obligations to treat customers fairly when deciding 
whether to accept or reject business.
Im satisfied that Mr Ls SIPP shouldnt have been established and the opportunity to 
execute investment instructions or proceed in reliance on an indemnity shouldnt have arisen 
at all. And Im firmly of the view that it wasnt fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for 
L&C to proceed with Mr Ls application
L&C said in its response to Mr Ls complaint that it was obliged to proceed in accordance 
with COBS 11.2.19R which obliged it to execute investment instructions. It effectively said 
that once the SIPP had been established, it was required to execute the specific instructions 
of its client.
On this point I think its important for me to reiterate that it wasnt fair and reasonable, for 
L&C to have accepted Mr Ls applications in the first place. So in my opinion, Mr Ls SIPP 
shouldnt have been established and the opportunity to execute investment instructions 
shouldnt have arisen at all.
An argument about having to execute the transaction as a result of COBS 11.2.19R was 
considered and rejected by the judge in BBSAL. In that case Jacobs J said:
The heading to COBS 11.2.1R shows that it is concerned with the manner in which 
orders are to be executed: i.e. on terms most favourable to the client. This is 
consistent with the heading to COBS 11.2 as a whole, namely: Best execution. The 
text of COBS 11.2.1R is to the same effect. The expression when executing orders 
indicates that it is looking at the moment when the firm comes to execute the order, 
and the way in which the firm must then conduct itself. It is concerned with the 
mechanics of execution; a conclusion reached, albeit in a different context, in Bailey 
& Anr v Barclays Bank [2014] EWHC 2882 (QB), paras [34]  [35]. It is not 
addressing an anterior question, namely whether a particular order should be 
executed at all. I agree with the FCAs submission that COBS 11.2 is a section of the 
Handbook concerned with the method of execution of client orders, and is designed 
to achieve a high quality of execution. It presupposes that there is an order being 
executed, and refers to the factors that must be taken into account when deciding 
how best to execute the order. It has nothing to do with the question of whether or 
not the order should be accepted in the first place.
And I dont think that L&Cs argument on this point is relevant to its obligations under the 
Principles to decide whether to accept an application to open a SIPP in the first place or to 
make the SA investment.
Is it fair to ask L&C to pay Mr L compensation in the circumstances?
The involvement of other partiesIve considered the involvement of other parties in Mr Ls loss. L&C might say that RealSIPP 
and its principal, CIB, were responsible for the loss. In this decision Im considering Mr Ls 
complaint about L&C. But I accept that RealSIPP and CIB were involved in the transaction 
complained about. CIB would be the respondent for complaints about activities RealSIPP 
undertook as an appointed representative of CIB. But CIB has been dissolved and no longer 
exists as a regulated business.
The DISP rules set out that when an Ombudsmans determination includes a money award,
then that money award may be such amount as the Ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a Court would award compensation (DISP
3.7.2R).
As I set out above, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case to hold 
L&C accountable for its own failure to comply with its regulatory obligations, good industry 
practice and to treat Mr L fairly. The starting point therefore, is that it would be fair to require 
L&C to pay Mr L compensation for the loss hes suffered as a result of its failings. Ive 
carefully considered if theres any reason why it wouldnt be fair to ask L&C to compensate 
Mr L for his loss, including whether it would be fair to hold another party liable in full or in 
part. And, in the circumstances, I consider it appropriate and fair in the circumstances for 
L&C to compensate Mr L to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to L&Cs 
failings.
I accept that it may be the case that SA, RealSIPP or CIB might have some responsibility for 
initiating the course of action that led to Mr Ls loss. However, Im satisfied that its also 
the case that if L&C had complied with its own distinct regulatory obligations as a SIPP 
operator, the arrangement for Mr L wouldnt have come about in the first place, and the 
loss hes suffered could have been avoided. And, taking into account the combination of 
factors Ive set out, Im not persuaded that it would be appropriate or fair in the 
circumstances to reduce the compensation amount that L&Cs liable to pay to Mr L.
To be clear, Im not making a finding that L&C should have assessed the suitability of the 
SIPP or SA investment for Mr L. I accept that L&C wasnt obligated to give advice to Mr L, or 
otherwise to ensure the suitability of the pension wrapper or investments for him. Rather, Im 
looking at L&Cs separate role and responsibilities  and for the reasons Ive explained,         
I think it failed in meeting those responsibilities.
Mr L taking responsibility for his own investment decisions
Section 5(2)(d) of the FSMA (now section 1C) requires the FCA, in securing an appropriate 
degree of protection for consumers, to have regard to, amongst other things, the general 
principle that consumers should take responsibility for their own investment decisions.
Ive considered this point carefully and Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to 
say Mr Ls actions mean he should bear the loss arising as a result of L&Cs failings.
For the reasons given above, I think that if L&C had acted in accordance with its regulatory 
obligations and good industry practice it shouldnt have accepted the SA investment into its 
SIPPs at all and it shouldnt have accepted Mr Ls introduction from RealSIPP. That should 
have been the end of the matter  if that had happened, Im satisfied the arrangement for   
Mr L wouldnt have come about in the first place, and the loss hes suffered could have been 
avoided.
As Ive made clear, L&C needed to carry out appropriate due diligence on the SA 
investment, and the business being referred to it from RealSIPP, and reach the right 
conclusions. I think it failed to do this. And merely having Mr L sign forms containing declarations wasnt an effective way of L&C meeting its obligations, or of escaping liability 
where it failed to meet these. 
CIB was a regulated firm with the necessary permissions to advise on the transactions this 
complaint concerns. And RealSIPP was an appointed representative of CIB. Im satisfied 
that in his dealings with it, Mr L trusted RealSIPP to act in his best interests. Mr L also then 
used the services of a regulated personal pension provider in L&C. So, overall, Im satisfied 
that in the circumstances, for all the reasons given, its fair to say L&C should compensate 
Mr L for the loss hes suffered. I dont think it would be fair to say in the circumstances that 
Mr L should suffer the loss because he ultimately instructed the transactions to be effected.
Would Mr Hs application have gone ahead elsewhere if L&C had declined it?
Ive considered whether, in the circumstances, Mr L would have gone ahead with the 
transfer and the investment if L&C had refused his application from RealSIPP and/or not 
accepted the SA investment. In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams 
wouldve proceeded with the transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but 
nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive.
Mr L has said he recalls being told the investment would yield a decent return, but Ive 
seen no evidence that he was warned it was high risk and speculative. And Im not 
satisfied that he was determined to move forward with the transactions in order to take 
advantage of a cash incentive.
Ive not seen any evidence to show Mr L was paid a cash incentive. It therefore cannot be 
said he was incentivised to enter into the transaction. And, on balance, Im satisfied that 
Mr L, unlike Mr Adams, wasnt eager to complete the transaction for reasons other than 
securing the best pension for himself. So, in my opinion, this case is very different from 
that of Mr Adams. 
Ive considered whether its fair and reasonable to conclude that another SIPP operator 
wouldve accepted Mr Ls application had L&C declined it. But I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to say that L&C shouldnt compensate Mr L for his loss on the basis of 
speculation that another SIPP operator wouldve made the same mistakes as Ive found L&C 
did. I think its fair instead to assume that another SIPP provider wouldve complied with its 
regulatory obligations and acted according to good industry practice, and therefore wouldnt 
have accepted Mr Ls application from RealSIPP.
On balance, I think its fair and reasonable to direct L&C to pay Mr L compensation in the 
circumstances. While I accept that other parties might have some responsibility for initiating 
the course of action thats led to Mr Ls loss, I consider that L&C failed to comply with its 
own regulatory obligations and didnt put a stop to the transactions proceeding when it had 
the opportunity to do so by declining to accept Mr Ls business from RealSIPP or the SA 
investment in Mr Ls SIPP.
Having carefully considered all of the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that if L&C had refused to accept Mr Ls application from RealSIPP, the 
transactions this complaint concerns wouldnt still have gone ahead. So, overall, I do think 
its fair and reasonable to direct L&C to pay Mr L compensation in the circumstances.
In making these findings, Ive taken into account the potential contribution made by other 
parties to the losses suffered by Mr L. In my view, in considering what fair compensation 
looks like in this case, its reasonable to make an award against L&C that requires it to compensate Mr L for the full measure of his loss. RealSIPP was reliant on L&C to facilitate 
access to Mr Ls pension. L&C accepted Mr Ls business from RealSIPP and it accepted the 
SA investment into Mr Ls SIPP and, but for L&Cs failings, Im satisfied that Mr Ls pension 
monies wouldnt have been transferred to L&C or invested in the SA investment. 
As such, Im not asking L&C to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its 
failings. Im satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That 
other parties might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter. However, that 
fact shouldnt impact on Mr Ls right to fair compensation from L&C for the full amount of his 
loss. The key point here is that but for L&Cs failings, Mr L wouldnt have suffered the loss 
hes suffered. As such, Im of the opinion that its appropriate and fair in the circumstances 
for L&C to compensate Mr L to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to its 
failings, and notwithstanding any failings by other firms involved in the transactions.
I acknowledge that Mr L has received a sum of compensation from the FSCS. However, the 
terms of his reassignment of rights require him to return any compensation paid by the 
FSCS in the event this complaint is successful, and I understand that the FSCS will 
ordinarily enforce the terms of the assignment if required. So I will make no allowance for 
what hes been paid by the FSCS. It will be for Mr L to make the arrangements to make any 
repayments he needs to make to the FSCS.
In conclusion
Taking everything into account, I think that in the circumstances of this case its fair and 
reasonable for me to conclude that L&C should have decided not to accept business 
from RealSIPP and/or to accept the SA investment to be held in its SIPPs before it had 
received Mr Ls application from RealSIPP. I conclude that if L&C hadnt accepted Mr Ls 
introduction from RealSIPP and/or the SA investment to be held in its SIPPs, Mr L wouldnt
have established a L&C SIPP, transferred his personal pension monies into it or invested in 
the SA investment. 
I say this having given careful consideration to the Adams v Options judgment, but also 
bearing in mind that my role is to reach a decision thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case having taken account of all relevant considerations.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr L to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
L&Cs due diligence failings. 
Mr L transferred from his existing SIPP to the L&C SIPP to make the SA investment. Ive got 
no way of determining definitively in what funds, and in what proportions, Mr Ls monies 
would have been invested to date though had they not been transferred away from the 
existing SIPP to the L&C SIPP and invested in SA. As such, having carefully considered this, 
for the purposes of quantifying redress in this case I think the fair and reasonable approach 
is to assume that the monies in question would have experienced a return from the date they 
were transferred into the L&C SIPP equivalent to the FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total 
Return Index). Im satisfied thats a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have 
been achieved over the period in question.
In light of the above, I think that L&C should calculate fair compensation by comparing Mr Ls 
current position to the position he would be in if he hasnt invested in SA.  
In summary, L&C should:1. Calculate a current notional value, as at the date of this decision, of the monies 
that were transferred into the L&C SIPP if theyd not been transferred into the L&C 
SIPP.
2. Obtain the actual current value of Mr Ls L&C SIPP, as at the date of this decision, 
less any outstanding charges.
3. Deduct the sum arrived at in step 2) from the sum arrived at in step 1).
4. Pay a commercial value to buy any illiquid investments (or treat 
them as having a zero value).
5. Pay an amount into Mr Ls L&C SIPP, so that the transfer value of this is increased 
by an amount equal to the loss calculated in step 3). This payment should take 
account of any available tax relief and the effect of charges. The payment should 
also take account of interest as set out below.
6. Pay Mr L £500 for the distress and inconvenience the problems with his pension
have caused him.
Ive explained how L&C should carry out the calculation, set out in steps 1 - 6 above, in
further detail below:
1. Calculate a current notional value, as at the date of this decision, of the monies 
that were transferred into the L&C SIPP if theyd not been transferred into the L&C 
SIPP.
L&C should calculate what the monies transferred into the L&C SIPP would now be 
worth had they instead achieved a return equivalent to that of the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index from the date they were first transferred into the 
L&C SIPP through until the date of my final decision.
Im satisfied thats a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been 
achieved over the period in question. 
L&C must also make a notional allowance in this calculation for any additional sums 
Mr L has contributed to, or withdrawn from, his L&C SIPP since outset. To be clear 
this doesnt include SIPP charges or fees paid to third parties like an adviser.
Any notional contributions or notional withdrawals to be allowed for in the calculation 
should be deemed to have occurred on the date on which monies were actually 
credited to, or withdrawn from, the L&C SIPP by Mr L.
2. Obtain the actual current value of Mr Ls L&C SIPP, as at the date of this decision, 
less any outstanding charges.
This should be the current value as at the date of this decision.
3. Deduct the sum arrived at in step 2) from the sum arrived at in step 1).
The total sum calculated in step 1) minus the sum arrived at in step 2), is the loss to 
Mr Ls pension provisions.4. Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Ls share in any investments that cannot currently 
be redeemed.
Im satisfied that Mr Ls L&C SIPP only still exists because of the illiquid investments 
that are held within it. And that but for these investments Mr Ls monies could have 
been transferred away from L&C. In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP 
fees to be prevented, any remaining investments need to be removed from the SIPP.
To do this L&C should reach an amount its willing to accept as a commercial value 
for the investments, and pay this sum into the SIPP and take ownership of the 
relevant investments.
If L&C is unwilling or unable to purchase the investments, then the actual value of 
any investments it doesnt purchase should be assumed to be nil for the purposes of 
the redress calculation. To be clear, this would include their being given a nil value 
for the purposes of ascertaining the current value of Mr Ls SIPP in step 2).
If L&C doesnt purchase the investments, it may ask Mr L to provide an undertaking 
to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from these 
investments. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on 
the amount Mr L may receive from the investments, and any eventual sums he would 
be able to access from the SIPP. L&C will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
5. Pay an amount into Mr Ls L&C SIPP, so that the transfer value of this is increased 
by an amount equal to the loss calculated in step 3). This payment should take 
account of any available tax relief and the effect of charges. The payment should 
also take account of interest as set out below.
The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Compensation shouldnt be paid into a pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protections or allowances.
If L&C is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ls SIPP, or if doing so would give 
rise to protection or allowance issues, it should instead pay that amount direct to him. 
But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ls actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax in retirement at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr L would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Neither Mr L nor L&C disputed that this is a reasonable assumption when they were 
given the opportunity to, despite being told that it wont be possible for us to amend 
this assumption once any final decision has been issued on the complaint.
6. Pay Mr L £500 for the distress and inconvenience the problems with his pension 
have caused him.In addition to the financial loss that Mr L has suffered as a result of the problems with 
his pension, I think that the loss suffered to Mr Ls pension provisions has caused   
Mr L distress. And I think that its fair for L&C to compensate him for this as well.
SIPP fees
If the investments cant be removed from the SIPP, and it hence cannot be closed after
compensation has been paid, then it wouldnt be fair for Mr L to have to continue to pay
annual SIPP fees to keep the SIPP open. As such, L&C should pay an amount into Mr Ls 
SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees that will be payable on the SIPP (based
on the most recent years fees). Five years should allow enough time for the issues with the
investments to be dealt with, and for them to be removed from the SIPP. As an alternative to 
this, L&C can agree to waive any future fees which might be payable by Mr Ls SIPP.
Interest
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr L or into his
SIPP within 28 days of the date L&C receives notification of Mr Ls acceptance of my final 
decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation isnt
paid within 28 days.
My final decision
For the reasons given. Its my final decision that this complaint is upheld and London & 
Colonial Services Limited must calculate and pay fair compensation to Mr L as
set out above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make an award requiring a financial business to pay
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate.
If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that London & 
Colonial Services Limited pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation
should be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that London & Colonial Services 
Limited must pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of
£160,000 (including distress and/or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest
set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds
£160,000, I recommend that London & Colonial Services Limited pay Mr L the balance plus 
any interest on the balance as set out above.
The recommendation isnt part of my determination or award London & Colonial Services 
Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr L could accept a
decision and go to court to ask for the balance and Mr L may want to get independent legal
advice before deciding whether to accept a decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman