DRN-3420529
The complaint
Mr C has complained that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) has unfairly 
turned down his claim made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In December 2006, Mr C purchased a timeshare contract with a company Ill call Business 
M. He paid a total of £19,900 using his Amex credit card, save for a payment of £100 on a 
different card. The payments were made in three tranches in December 2006 and then 
January and February 2007.
Mr Cs agreement meant he was able to book a week every year at a specific resort in what 
was described as a gold season, which was a period of weeks prior to the main UK school 
holidays. But Mr C said that he was told he would be able to exchange this to book a three 
bedroom apartment for his and his familys use every year in the school holidays. However, 
since 2009 that wasnt possible and he was only able to book two bedroom apartments. 
Mr C first raised his concerns directly with Business M, but in February 2015 he also made a 
claim to Amex under the CCA. The basis of that claim was that Mr C was told at the time of 
purchase that he would be able to exchange the holiday week he had bought for one in the 
school holidays. This claim was further expanded on in July 2017, when Mr C set out a 
number of representations he says were made to him by Business Ms sales representatives 
that turned out to be untrue. In summary, Mr C says he was told that he would have full 
control of his timeshare and be able to holiday at the resorts he wanted to at the times he 
wanted. But in reality there were times when Mr C wasnt able to visit the resorts he wanted 
or get the accommodation he needed.
Amex considered Mr Cs claim, but thought he raised it too late. It argued that the timeframe 
in which he needed to raise his claim was set out in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA)  which it 
said was within six years of the event this claim related to (the timeshare being 
misrepresented to him). As Mr C raised his claim outside of that time limit, Amex argued it 
didnt need to consider it further. 
Mr C didnt agree with Amexs decision to decline his claim. In particular, he felt it was unfair 
to say he hadnt claimed in time because he wasnt aware something had gone wrong until 
later. As Mr C was unhappy with Amexs response, he referred a complaint about its 
decision to decline his claim to our service.
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Cs claim and thought that there were two possible 
claims that could have been made under the CCA. There was a claim for misrepresentation 
under s.75 CCA  which they thought that had been made too late under the LA. And they 
thought there was a possible claim for an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under s.140A 
CCA. But having considered the facts of the case, they didnt think Amex should have 
accepted such a claim. Mr C disagreed and asked for the matter to be looked at again by an 
ombudsman. 
Before that happened a second investigator reviewed the complaint. They agreed that any 
claim under s.75 CCA had been brought too late, but they also thought that was the case for 
any claim under s.140A CCA too. Mr C again asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman, so it has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim for misrepresentation under s.75 CCA
Under s.75 CCA, in some circumstances, the provider of credit (in this case Amex) can be 
jointly liable with the supplier of goods or services paid for with that credit (in this case 
Business M) for the suppliers misrepresentations and breaches of contract.
Here Mr C says that he didnt get what he was told he would when he took out the timeshare 
agreement. Having looked at what he has complained about, I cant see that hes saying 
there was a term in the agreement that was breached. Instead hes saying that he wasnt 
able to find the suitable alternatives he was told he could get when he tried to exchange his 
holiday week. Mr C made a misrepresentation claim, which I think was the right sort of claim 
to make.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 
that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action brought for 
a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a claimant has a 
period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Here Mr C brought a like claim against Amex under s.75 CCA. That claim was brought under 
the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mr C had six years from the date 
on which the case of action accrued to being a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr Cs case, thats when he could have brought a claim 
for misrepresentation against Business M or the like claim against Amex. I think that was the 
date he entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in December 2006. It was at 
that time that he entered into an agreement based, he says, on the misrepresentations of 
Business M. He says, had the misrepresentations not been made, he wouldnt have bought 
the timeshare. And it was on that day that he suffered a loss, as he borrowed money from 
Amex to pay for it.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in December 2006, so Mr C had 
six years from then to bring a claim against either Business M or Amex. But he didnt try to 
contact Amex about his claim until February 2015, which was outside of the time limits set 
out in the LA.
Mr C has said that as the contract was an annual commitment (with annual maintenance 
fees paid to access the timeshare), he didnt realise something had gone wrong inside of the 
normal timescales. Ive considered other parts of the LA, but I cant see that the limitation 
period would be extended for Mr Cs claim due to his lack of knowledge that something had 
gone wrong at the time of the alleged misrepresentation. So although I understand his 
frustration, I dont think Amex did anything wrong in turning down the s.75 CCA claim for the 
reason it did.
Claim for unfair debtor-creditor relationship under s.140A CCAUnder s.140A CCA, the courts have the power to determine whether the relationship 
between a debtor and creditor could be unfair for a wide variety of reasons. And if a court 
found such an unfairness, it has a wide discretion to remedy that through the powers in 
s.140B CCA. Although this provision grants powers to a court and not directly to our service, 
it is relevant law that I must consider when deciding if Amex properly considered the claim 
brought against it.
There is case law that indicated that a misrepresentation made by a supplier, such as 
Business M, could be considered when determining the fairness of a debtor-creditor 
relationship under s.140A CCA (Scotland and Reast v. British Credit Trust Limited [2014] 
EWCA Civ 790). When the complaint was first considered, our adjudicator thought there 
wasnt enough evidence to conclude the relationship was unfair, but a second investigator 
thought any claim had been brought too late.
Having considered everything, I agree that the claim made to Amex was brought too late to 
be considered under s.140A CCA, so I dont propose to comment on the likely outcome of 
any potential claim. Ill explain why.
It was held in Smith v. The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2021] EWCA Civ 1832 that a debtor-
creditor relationship, in this case under a credit card, can become unfair due to a related 
agreement funded by the credit card. But once a consumer had repaid the debt arising from 
the related agreement, any unfairness due to that agreement came to an end. And, crucially, 
time started to run for the purposes of limitation from the date repayment was made. As with 
a claim under s.75 CCA, the relevant limitation period is six years under s.9 LA.
Ive seen Mr Cs Amex statement from July 2008 showing that at that point he didnt owe 
anything to Amex  in fact his account was in credit of £1.74. So any money borrowed due to 
his membership with Business M had been paid in full by that point and, following the above 
authority, any unfairness caused by that purchase would have ended.1 But Mr C didnt 
approach Amex about his concerns until February 2015, which was more than six years after 
the borrowing had been repaid. So it follows, I dont think Amex needs to consider any claim 
under s.140A CCA.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against American Express 
Services Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman
1 For the avoidance of doubt, I make no finding on whether there could have been an unfair 
relationship under s.140A CCA. Rather I have considered whether it was too late to make any claim.