DRN-3826180
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L were sold the PPI at the same time as arranging their mortgage in 2001.
I wrote a provisional decision last month in which I explained why I wasnt thinking of 
upholding the complaint. Nationwide has confirmed that it had nothing more to add. Mr and 
Mrs L did make some additional comments that I will address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L were originally sold PPI in November 2001 at the same time as arranging their 
mortgage. They say they didnt know they had PPI, meaning that it was added without their 
knowledge or consent.
In response to my provisional decision Mr and Mrs L have reiterated very strongly that they 
didnt know that PPI had been applied to their mortgage account. They say that the number 
of phone calls they received from Nationwide during their complaint shows that Nationwide 
knew it was in the wrong.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs L have said but it hasnt persuaded me to 
change my view.
From what we know of Nationwides sales processes at the time, the PPI would usually be 
presented as optional. Mortgage interviews tend to be quite long with options for insurance 
being discussed alongside the borrowing options. I havent seen anything that would lead 
me to conclude that something different happened in this case.
I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs L have provided their genuine recollection of events. But the 
sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if their memories have faded.
Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up to cover only Mr L. This suggests that 
there was some discussion about the policy, with Mr and Mrs L tailoring it to best meet their 
needs. If the policy had been added without any discussion I might have expected it to cover 
Mr and Mrs L equally.
Also, Ive seen that Mr L signed a new PPI form in October 2002 to amend the existing cover 
to increase the benefit amount. So it seems clear that Mr and Mrs were aware of having PPI 
at that time and were actively managing it. In response to my provisional decision, they say 
that if they did sign anything they didnt know what they were signing for. But the form very 
clearly relates to PPI and I find it unlikely that Mr L would put his signature to something 
without having any idea what it was about.
The policy was a standalone policy. That means it provided cover for any mortgage, not just 
Nationwide mortgages. In 2004 Mr and Mrs L redeemed their Nationwide mortgage and 
changed lender but they kept the PPI policy. At that point, Nationwide altered the policy 
number for administrative purposes to reflect the changes that had been made. Ive seen 
that Mr and Mrs L were receiving annual insurance renewal letters, so they would have 
known that the policy was still running. And of course Ive already mentioned that they 
amended the level of cover at that time to take account of their additional borrowing. In 
response to my provisional decision Mr and Mrs L say they never received any information in 
the post. But I find it unlikely that they wouldnt have received a single one of the annual 
renewal letters that were correctly addressed.
Based on the available evidence, I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L knew 
they had a choice about buying the PPI. It seems to me that they decided to buy it, knowing 
that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
This wasnt an advised sale, so Nationwide didnt need to ensure that the policy was suitable 
for Mr and Mrs L. But it did need to provide them with enough information for them to make 
an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for them.
I think that Mr and Mrs L would have known something about the policy  that it would cover 
their mortgage repayments if Mr L was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I dont think theyd have decided to buy it without knowing 
anything at all about it.
Mrs L says she had secure public sector employment and so didnt need PPI. However, the 
policy was set up just to cover Mr L. It seems likely that they took their employment 
circumstances into account when decided to set the policy up just to cover Mr L.
Mr L would have received sick pay from his job. However, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr L would have received full pay for. 
Mr and Mrs L say they had some savings. But having the policy would have allowed them to 
retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult 
time. So I think that they had a need for the cover and could have benefitted from it if 
necessary.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about what it didnt cover. But Mr L wasnt affected by any of those things. 
For example, he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have been excluded 
under the policy terms. As I consider that Mr and Mrs L had an interest in the policy and 
decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to change 
their minds. So they are no worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done 
wrong, so theres nothing that Nationwide needs to do to put things right. It follows that I do 
not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman