DRN-3205789
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 10 February 2020, Miss R was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. The agreement was for £4,147 over 60 months; with monthly 
repayments of £141.36. At the time the car was almost five years old and had done 43,499 
miles.
Miss R said that the car used an abnormal amount of oil and, in December 2020, the 
exhaust needed replacing. She complained to Moneybarn as she believed the issues with 
the car were present when it was supplied to her. And she wanted to reject the car.
Moneybarn arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. And this inspection said 
that the issues with the car werent present or developing when the car was supplied. So, 
Moneybarn rejected her complaint. Miss R wasnt happy with Moneybarns response and 
brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that Miss R first raised issues with the car, with the supplying 
dealership, on 22 July 2020, when the car had travelled 47,000 miles. And the dealership 
changed the oil and oil filter. And, on 25 August 2020, when the car had done 48,338 miles, 
the spark plugs were replaced. Miss R then had the exhaust replaced by an independent 
garage in December 2020, when the car had done around 50,000 miles.
The investigator said that, just because there were some issues with the car, this doesnt 
necessarily mean that the car was of an unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. And the 
independent engineers report didnt say that there were faults with the car when it was 
supplied. So, the investigator thought the issues Miss R had experienced were caused by 
general wear and tear, given the age and mileage of the car and the nature of the faults. And 
he didnt think that Moneybarn needed to do anything more.
Miss R didnt agree with the investigator. She said that the problems with the car happened 
immediately after supply, but she only became aware of them some time after the purchase 
because of the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic and the associated lockdowns.
Miss R also said that the dealership changing the oil and spark plugs were a clear 
acknowledgement of the problem. And, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), 
Moneybarn are allowed one chance at repair before shes entitled to reject the car. Shes 
said that, while she accepts the replacement of the exhaust was as a result of wear and tear, 
she doesnt think that the high oil consumption is  she has to top up the car with around five 
litres of oil a month. And shes had an independent report done which confirms that the fuel 
consumption is very high.
Because Miss R didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss R was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Moneybarn are responsible. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale; and the vehicles 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Moneybarn can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, its for Miss R to show that it was present when the car was 
supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss R took possession of it, and this made 
the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this 
right.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report dated 2 March 2021. At the point of 
inspection, the car had done 53,962 miles. The engineer conducted a 171-mile road test, 
during which the oil was topped up. The engineer said that in our opinion based on the 
visible evidence we would conclude that the vehicle is not showing any faults in regards to 
excessive oil consumption, oil warning lights or vehicle being in limp mode  we would 
conclude that the vehicle has suffered from in use wear and deterioration. 
The engineer also said that taking into consideration the time and mileage since the point of 
finance inception  we do not consider any faults to have been present since purchase  
there were no faults we consider to be unsuccessful repairs  we do consider the faults to 
be wear and tear maintenance, which have developed since purchase.
The engineer has confirmed that his duty is to the courts. And that this duty over-rides any 
obligation to any person who instructed and/or paid for the report. Given this, Im satisfied 
that the independent engineers comments are reasonable to rely on.
Ive seen that Miss R has said the independent engineer told her that the car was using an 
extortionate amount of oil. But these comments arent reflected in the report the engineer 
produced. Shes also said that she has independent evidence that the car has high fuel/oil 
consumption. But I havent seen anything to show me that this is as a result of a fault with 
the car that was either present or developing in February 2020  when the car was supplied 
to Miss R.Given the above, Im satisfied that, under the CRA, the car was of a satisfactory quality when 
it was supplied to Miss R. And, while shes had issues with the car since supply, these are 
more likely than not as a result of ongoing wear and tear, given the age and mileage of the 
car. Because of this, the change of oil, oil filter, spark plugs and the new exhaust in 2020 
dont class as failed repairs under the CRA, and Miss R doesnt have the right to reject.
So, and while I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Miss R, I wont be 
asking Moneybarn to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint about Moneybarn No.1 Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman