DRN-3339940
The complaint
Miss Z complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) is refusing to refund her 
transactions she didnt authorise. And that it blocked and withheld the funds in her account 
before closing it - and provided her with poor customer service.  
What happened
From around the middle of July 2020 up until the beginning of August 2020 several 
transactions, largely carried out online, were made from Miss Zs account. A few days after 
the last transaction, Miss Z contacted Nationwide to report her card stolen and make a fraud 
claim against the transactions. Miss Z also explained she had lost her mobile phone. 
Miss Z isnt clear exactly what transactions she didnt authorise given the passage of time. 
Nationwide dont have the call recording for the first call Miss Z made when the transactions 
were reported to it as fraud. 
The transactions made over the period Miss Z broadly says the fraud occurred are well 
known to both parties. So, I dont need to list them expressly here. 
Later in August 2020, Nationwide sent Miss Z a letter in which it explained it was giving her 
60 days notice of closing the account. Nationwide also decided to block Miss Zs access to 
the money held in it. Miss Z was permitted to withdraw any wages from the account during 
this period but was told she would need to provide evidence of her salary. 
Unhappy with Nationwides actions Miss Z complained. Nationwide did not uphold Miss Zs 
complaint  some of the key points it made were:  
- Miss Z had confirmed some payments, which she disputes, were genuine through its 
fraud detector system
- Miss Z had made similar claims with the same merchants within the last 12 months  
this being her third such claim  
- When it believes a false claim has been made it can review its customer relationship. 
Nationwide has closed Miss Zs account in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account 
- It had caused undue delay with dealing with the fraud claim and promises to call 
Miss Z were not kept. Nationwide sent a cheque of £50 to Miss Z as compensation 
for its poor service
Miss Z referred her complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into her 
complaint. In summary, they made the following findings: 
- Nationwide had shown the transactions were authenticated  
- Nationwides records show transactions flagged by its fraud systems had been 
confirmed as genuine by Miss Z or someone using her phone
- Miss Z is unable to remember exactly which transactions were made fraudulently. 
And Nationwide dont have the initial call recording where this was reported by her. 
But Nationwide has provided the dataset which shows which transactions were 
disputed. As this is headed total approved fraud, they were persuaded the 
transactions listed were those which Miss Z disputed
- The confirmed as genuine payments would form part of the disputed transactions as 
Miss Z has said she didnt have possession of her card throughout the period of the 
spend
- Miss Z said shed lost her phone at the time and reported the loss of the SIM card to 
the operator and requested a replacement. But the mobile phone operator told us 
Miss Z had not ordered a new SIM. This casts doubt on Miss Zs version of events. 
Because of this, and the other reasons, its most likely Miss Z authorised the 
transactions
- Nationwide has legal and regulatory obligations it must adhere to. And to do that it 
may choose to review its customers accounts, which may also mean restricting them. 
Nationwides terms of account also permit it to do this
- Nationwide say it caused a delay over around two and a half months from when it 
should have released all of Miss Zs funds to when it did
- Apart from the delay in the funds being released, there wasnt any evidence to 
support Miss Zs argument she had received poor customer service 
- Nationwides terms allow it to close Miss Zs account in the way it did, and those 
terms have been applied fairly 
- To put things right, Nationwide should pay Miss Z 8% interest on the funds it withheld 
from 28 August 2020 till when they were released. And it should pay an additional 
£200 for the upset and trouble it caused
Nationwide accepted our Investigators recommendations. Miss Z did not. It follows the 
complaint has now been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to part uphold Miss Z complaint. Ill explain why. 
Disputed transactions 
In short, Nationwide is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). 
Miss Z says she didnt make several payments between July 2020 and August 2020 and is 
seeking a refund of them. Nationwide have given me copies of its technical records. Having 
carefully reviewed them, I am satisfied the genuine card details were used in order for the 
disputed transaction to take place. 
So Im satisfied the payments were authenticated in line with what the PSRs say.But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable 
Nationwide to hold Miss Z liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not Miss Z consented to the transactions being made. 
Miss Z cant remember exactly what transactions are disputed. And Nationwide doesnt have 
the call recording in which she first reported these. But Nationwide has given us its records 
which shows which transactions it recorded as disputed by Miss Z. In light of no other 
information being available, Im persuaded this is likely to be an accurate record of what 
transactions Miss Z disputes.  
Nationwide have given me further technical records which show either Miss Z, or someone 
who had her phone, confirmed payments flagged by Nationwides fraud systems as genuine. 
This process would have been carried out by a user positively confirming the payments as 
genuine when prompted through Miss Zs mobile phone.   
These affirmations of the payments being genuine happened around the beginning and 
middle of the period in which Miss Z says the fraudulent transactions were carried out. Ive 
listened to a call between Miss Z and Nationwide in which she says shes just reported her 
mobile phone as lost and requested a new SIM. 
Given the fraud transactions started a couple of weeks before this, and the phone was used 
to confirm payments as genuine around that time, I do question why Miss Z hadnt reported 
her phone and SIM as lost or stolen much sooner. Its unlikely a phone isnt identified as 
missing within moments, or at worst, a few days of it disappearing. Because of this I further 
question the plausibility of what Miss Z says happened. 
Miss Z is clear both in her interaction with our Investigator, and on a call with Nationwide, 
that she had ordered a new SIM card with the mobile phone operator. But the operator has 
told this service it never received any such request from Miss Z. This therefore adds further 
doubt to the plausibility and credibility of Mis Zs testimony. 
Given what Ive said above about the veracity and plausibility of Miss Zs testimony, Im 
persuaded its most likely she consented, and so authorised the payments she disputes. 
Nationwide say this is the third claim of this type, made within a calendar year, by Miss Z. It 
also says a previously backlisted device has been used again to make some of the 
transactions. Nationwide hasnt given me conclusive proof about this device. But when I take 
these submissions into account along with what Ive already said, Im further persuaded 
Miss Z authorised the payments. 
This means Nationwide does not need to make any refunds to Miss Z for transactions she 
disputes to having made.     
Account review and closure
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having looked at the information Ive been given by Nationwide, Im satisfied it had genuine 
concerns, and so reason enough, to review and then block Miss Zs account. By doing so Nationwide blocked substantive funds held in the account. But Miss Z was 
permitted to withdraw her salary from the account by going into a Nationwide branch with the 
required proof of identity and address. She also had to show proof of the authenticity of her 
salary. Im satisfied Nationwide acted fairly by asking her to do this, though I can sympathise 
this step may have caused some delay in Miss Z accessing essential funds. 
Nationwide say it should have given all of Miss Zs funds to her at the end of August 2020 
and not blocked them until November 2020. As Nationwide accept it got things wrong here, 
Im satisfied it needs to take steps to put things right to compensate Miss Z for the delay and 
any trouble and upset this may have caused. 
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Nationwide and Miss Z had to comply with, 
say it could close the account by giving her at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by Nationwide, Im satisfied it was entitled to 
close the account in the way that it has done. As I said above, Nationwide had written to 
Miss Z to explain its actions, and in doing so signposted her to the relevant part of its terms 
and conditions that it was exercising this action under. 
In any event, Nationwide didnt close the account for a while longer than it said it would, 
thereby giving Miss Z more time to make alternative banking arrangements. 
Customer service 
Its clear Nationwide failed to release Miss Zs funds sooner than it should have. Nationwide 
has also accepted it failed to return calls promised to Miss Z and caused some delay with 
the fraud investigation. Because of that it awarded Miss Z £50 compensation.
I havent seen anything else which shows Nationwide provided poor service. But Nationwide 
does need to award Miss Z more compensation for the delay it caused to her accessing her 
funds.  
 
Having given this some thought, Im satisfied Nationwide should compensate Miss Z for any 
lost interest from when the funds should have been released up until when they were. And 
that it should pay her £200, which is in addition to the £50 its already paid, for the trouble 
and upset this delay likely caused Miss Z. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Nationwide must: 
- Pay Miss Z 8% simple interest from when the funds held in her account should have 
been released to when they were 
- And, it should pay her a further £200 as compensation for the trouble and upset the 
delay caused her 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I now direct Nationwide Building Society to put things right as above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman