DRN-4447737
The complaint
Mr C complains about the satisfactory quality of a car supplied to him by MotoNovo Finance 
Limited (MotoNovo) using a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mr C acquired a used car in October 2020, funded in part with a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. The cash price of the car was £14,386.99 and a £1,000 deposit was paid. 
The duration of the agreement was 60 months. The car was around five years old and Mr C 
said he was told the mileage of the car at the point of supply was around 20,000 miles. 
He said he later noticed the mileage of the car when he got it was around 29,000 miles. Mr C 
also purchased an extended warranty service at the point of supply, which he said had a 
maximum claim limit of £2,000 for each authorised repair.
A pre-delivery inspection checklist completed in October 2020 showed, among other things, 
that the brake pads and discs were checked.
Mr C said soon after acquiring the car, in November 2020, he had the rear brake pads 
replaced by a third-party at a cost of £73. But he says they continued to squeak.
Mr C later noticed a problem with jerkiness while driving at higher speeds on a motorway. He 
said he contacted the supplying dealership in April 2021 about this issue, alongside the 
squeaking of the brakes.
Mr C said the supplying dealership wouldnt reimburse him the cost of the replacement brake 
pads, as incorrect ones were fitted by the third-party. Mr C then had the front and rear pads 
and discs replaced by the supplying dealership which cost Mr C around £231. 
Mr C said they also told him the jerkiness he experienced at high speed was due to a sport 
driving mode the car might have been placed in. Mr C said he hadnt used this function or 
mode.
In June 2021, Mr C said he still experienced jerkiness when driving on motorways, so he 
contacted the supplying dealership again. Mr C said they identified an oil leak within the 
engine and it was repaired under warranty. The invoice showed Mr C had to pay around £50 
for sealant.
Within a day or so of collecting the car after it was repaired, the car broke down and it had to 
be recovered. Job sheets for the repairs showed the car had travelled around 36,000 miles 
in total at this point and both the timing chain and coolant fan had to be replaced.
Mr C said between July 2021 and December 2021, the car still had performance issues. But, 
he said the supplying dealership couldnt find any faults with it when they inspected it and 
during a service they completed in October 2021.
In December 2021. Mr C said he noticed an engine management light appear on the car 
dashboard, so contacted the supplying dealership about it. He said he was told it was likely 
to do with a faulty sensor and that the car could still be driven.
In around January and February 2022, Mr C said the car started making a clicking noise, so 
he took it to a third-party to be checked and he said he was told the engine oil was low. Mr C 
contacted the supplying dealership as he was surprised the oil needed refilling as the car 
had just had a service in October 2021. The supplying dealership then inspected the car. 
The invoice in February 2022 showed the fuel pump was replaced. In March 2022, another 
invoice showed the fuel pressure control software was also updated.
A few months later, Mr C said he took an engineer from the supplying dealership for a drive 
on the motorway to replicate the issues he noticed with the car when it was driven at higher 
speeds. He said he was told the engine was misfiring. Mr C had the car inspected by the 
manufacturers dealership and he said he was told that spark plugs needed to be changed 
and the oil needed to be refilled again.
In July 2022 a diagnostic was carried out on the car for poor running on the motorway by the 
manufacturers dealership. It was noted that the CVT fluctuated between gears randomly 
and that the car wasnt controlling gear changes correctly. Mr C was quoted £6,621.90 for 
the cost of repairs.
Mr C, frustrated with all the ongoing issues with the car, complained to the supplying 
dealership.
In September 2022, the supplying dealership told Mr C that the issue with the car was in fact 
an engine issue and that it would need to be replaced. Mr C was quoted £3,290 to replace 
the engine with a used one; £2,000 of which would be covered by his warranty.
 
Mr C agreed to the repairs. The invoice showed the engine was replaced in October 2022, 
along with its spark plugs, and an oil and filter change. The mileage of the car recorded on 
the invoice was around 52,800.
Mr C has since collected the car and has said there are no further issues with it, other than 
general wear and tear issues.
Mr C complained to MotoNovo and they provided their final response. They said, as Mr C 
had already carried out the repairs, they did not have the opportunity to assess the condition 
of the car for the faults described or agree to the repairs and of any payment. So, MotoNovo 
wouldnt offer a contribution to the costs Mr C incurred. MotoNovo explained that as Mr C 
had acquired the car for more than six months, he would have needed to evidence the faults 
were present at the point of supply.
Mr C, unhappy with MotoNovos response, referred his complaint to our service.
During our involvement, MotoNovo provided further information which they received from the 
supplying dealership. The dealership acknowledged the mileage discrepancy at the point of 
supply and accepted they made a mistake. For their error, an offer of £475 was made to Mr 
C.
Our investigator explained in his view that he reviewed each repair that had been carried out 
on the car since it was acquired, and didnt consider those repairs showed the car had a fault 
at the point of supply. He concluded that some of the repairs were due to regular wear and 
tear which would be expected on a used car of this age. And he explained that there wasnt 
information to confirm whether the fault with the engine was present or developing at the point of supply. The investigator also explained the offer the supplying dealership had made 
of £475 to Mr C due to the discrepancy in the mileage the car had travelled at the point it 
was acquired.
Mr C disagreed with the outcome the investigator reached. In summary, he said an MOT 
was completed on the car shortly before he acquired it. But, he said he had to replace the 
brakes within 30 days and he said he was told by the supplying dealership that he would be 
reimbursed this cost. Mr C also said the issue with the spark plugs suggested the car hadnt 
been inspected properly at the point of supply. Mr C also said he experienced jerkiness in 
the car within the first six months of acquiring it, and he believed this was ultimately why the 
engine had to be replaced.
Mr C also said the timing chain for the car should only need to be replaced every 180,000 
miles, but this had to be replaced within 36,000 miles. He believed this was another 
indication the car hadnt been properly maintained.
Mr C then provided details of the service history of the car, which showed it had been 
serviced first in 2016, and then each year from 2020 to 2023.
As Mr C disagreed with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 October 2023 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint. In that decision I said:
Mr C complains about the quality of a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. 
Entering into regulated consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity, 
so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Cs complaint against MotoNovo.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  MotoNovo here  has a 
responsibility to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a 
reasonable person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. Its important to 
note in this case that the CRA specifically says that the durability of goods should be 
considered as part of satisfactory quality.
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. Its important to note that Mr Cs car was used. So, I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect it to be in the same condition as a new one. But, that being 
said, Mr Cs car was around five years old, cost around £14,400 and I think its fair to say 
had an average mileage for its age. 
MotoNovo have since confirmed the mileage of the car at the time it was acquired by Mr C 
was around 29,000 miles. I will make comments about this later on in my findings. But, 
considering all the relevant factors above, I think a reasonable person wouldve expected the 
car to be in good condition, free from anything other than minor issues and would expect 
trouble free motoring for some time.
What I need to decide in this case is whether the car was of satisfactory quality or not. The 
first thing to consider is whether the car developed a fault.
Brakes and brake discsIve noted the pre-delivery checklist said the brakes and discs were checked in October 
2020, around the time the car was acquired by Mr C. The pre-delivery checklist also says:
Whilst our pre-delivery inspection is intended to make sure your vehicle is fault free, it is 
impossible to check every component on the product, therefore in the unlikely event a fault 
should arise within the next 30 days it will be covered by your guarantee, at our expense and 
your convenience.
Mr C has also provided an invoice that shows the rear brakes were replaced within 30 days 
and he said he was told by the supplying dealership this cost would be reimbursed. I cant be 
sure what Mr C was told, but in any event, Im not satisfied the brakes were checked 
correctly during the pre-delivery inspection. If they had been, I dont think Mr C would have 
incurred costs to have the rear brakes replaced shortly after acquiring it. So, I think it is fair 
and reasonable Mr C is reimbursed the cost of the replacement brakes. I appreciate Mr C 
had the wrong brakes fitted, but Im also mindful that he was acting in good faith here, and 
so I still think he should be reimbursed for them.
Mr C also explained that he incurred further costs in April 2021 and had the replacement 
brakes replaced again as well as brake discs. Ive noted that by April 2021, the car had 
travelled around a further 5,000 miles since it was acquired. And the job sheet for the 
replacements say that both pads and discs needed to be replaced  on both the front and 
rear wheels. 
Considering everything here, I think it was fair for Mr C to incur this cost himself. Brake pads 
and discs are general items on a car that would need to be replaced after use and after wear 
and tear. And Im mindful that the third-party Mr C took his car to didnt need to replace all 
the brakes and discs, but rather only the rear brake shortly after Mr C acquired the car. So, I 
dont think these are costs MotoNovo need to reimburse, and Im satisfied there were no 
issues with them at the point of supply, other than with the pads which were previously 
replaced as above.
Timing belt, coolant fan, fuel pump, fuel pressure control software update and engine 
replacement
Turning my attention now to the other various and significant repairs that have occurred. 
Ive noted that there seems to be overarching issues with the car, which have ranged from 
issues with its timing belt, coolant fan, fuel pump system as well as issues with its engine.
Ive thought about all of these issues separately and reviewed the relevant job sheets that 
have been provided to understand fully the diagnostics and repairs that have been carried 
out to the car. Ive also thought carefully about Mr Cs comments where he suggests parts of 
the car had failed sooner than they had ought to.
In broad terms, I also think all these parts have broken down sooner than I would have 
expected them to. Normally, I would consider each repair in turn. However, I dont think I 
need to do this to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
I say this because I think the reason why the parts named above broke down sooner than I 
would have expected all stems from the same issue. So, I think it would be simpler to 
consider all these repairs collectively.
Im mindful about the service history of the car before it was acquired by Mr C. In particular, I 
can see the car was first serviced in September 2016, when it had travelled around 4,700 
miles. The next service was in October 2020, just before the car was acquired, which was around four years after the first service. By then, the details recorded on the service history 
suggest the car had travelled around 29,000 miles.
Having looked at the manufacturers guidelines, Ive noted the car hasnt been serviced in 
line with recommended guidelines  which is for it to be serviced every 15,000 miles or 12 
months, whichever comes first.
Considering all of this, and all the issues with the car, I think it is likely the car had been 
poorly maintained before it was acquired. The car had likely been used for several years 
without any maintenance completed on it, such as changes to its engine oil, filters or other 
parts. Without these checks and maintenance being completed, it is likely significant 
degradation occurred to the car, such as to its engine, timing belt, coolant fan and fuel pump 
system, before the car was acquired. 
I cant see anything to suggest the car was sold to Mr C with a full-service history. And I cant 
see anything else that suggests Mr C was misled about the condition of the car before he 
acquired it. And so, I cant say MotoNovo acted unfairly here. 
Its worth noting that whatever happened, the majority of the repairs have been completed at 
no cost to Mr C. But it follows the above that I dont think MotoNovo need to reimburse Mr C 
for any costs that he did incur for these repairs to be completed.
Mileage discrepancy
The supplying dealership has accepted incorrect information was given to Mr C about the 
cars mileage at the point of supply. They say they gave the incorrect mileage to Mr C on his 
invoice and offered £475 for their error. They say this figure is based on a market valuation 
they completed by calculating the difference in value of cars at the two different mileages if 
they were to be sold now.
Its unclear whether this offer has come directly from MotoNovo or whether it has already 
been paid. But in any event, I think the offer made here is fair in the circumstances and Im 
also mindful that MotoNovo had sent our service the email they received from the supplying 
dealership as part of their submissions. So I think a fair thing for MotoNovo to do here is pay 
Mr C £475, if the supplying dealership hasnt already done so.
I set out what I intended to instruct MotoNovo to do to put things right. And I gave both 
parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to 
consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr C responded and said, among other things, that he felt the issue with the engine had 
been overlooked and brushed aside by saying the car is missing three years of service 
history.
Mr C also said that he would have expected a car sold at the price it was, to have been well 
maintained and followed all recommended guidelines. 
Mr C went on to say that he didnt realise the car didnt have a full-service history until our 
service brought this to his attention.
MotoNovo responded and said they had no further points to raise.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to change my opinion from the provisional decision I 
made.
As I said in my provisional decision, the car had likely been used for several years without 
any maintenance completed on it, such as changes to its engine oil, filters or other parts. 
Without these checks and maintenance being completed, it is likely significant degradation 
occurred to the cars engine before it was acquired. The car was not sold to Mr C with a full 
service-history and the supplying dealership was not obliged to sell it with one either.
I appreciate Mr Cs further comments he made, being a first-time buyer of a car, but I cant 
see anything to suggest Mr C was misled into acquiring a car with a full-service history. It 
was in Mr Cs interest to have checked whether the car was sold with a full-service history if 
this was important to him when acquiring it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and instruct MotoNovo Finance 
Limited to put things right by doing the following:
Reimburse Mr C the costs he incurred for replacing the rear brake pads shortly after 
acquiring the car - £73. *
Pay Mr C £475 for the mileage discrepancy of the car at the point it was acquired. **
* These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If MotoNovo considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
** If the supplying dealership has already paid this, then MotoNovo doesnt need to do 
anything further in respect of making a payment for the mileage discrepancy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman