Complaint
Mrs O complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
her alongside a store card in July 2000.
Although the PPI was sold by another business AXA France IARD has taken 
responsibility for this complaint. For ease of reference, I will refer to AXA throughout this 
decision.
Background
In May 2020, I issued my provisional decision. In it I explained why I wasn't intending to 
uphold this complaint. I said that following receipt of further information, I didn't think Mrs O 
would likely have thought her medical condition would have been a reason not to take out 
the policy. And I also explained that I still thought the policy would have been useful.
An extract of my provisional decision is set out below:
Mrs O took out the PPI in store in 2000. This policy covered her if she lost her job or was 
off work because she was sick or if she had an accident. The policy cost £1.00 for 
every £100.00 of the outstanding balance owed on Mrs O's card. On a successful claim, it 
would have covered her for 15% of that balance until the end date of her cover, the 
outstanding balance on the card was repaid, or she returned to work.
Our adjudicator said she thought this was a case that should be upheld. As Mrs O 
suffered with a pre-existing medical condition which the policy didn't cover, she said AXA 
hadn't done enough to make the policy exclusion clear. If it had been clearer, she didn't think 
Mrs O would have bought the cover.
AXA disagreed with this view. It said the pre-existing medical condition Mrs O had, was 
usually manageable and wouldn't have affected her lifestyle or her ability to work. It 
requested further evidence to show the condition was ongoing, how it affected Mrs Os 
ability to work and the impact on her daily life. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in 
deciding this case.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs O, but I intend to reach a different conclusion to the 
adjudicator and not uphold her complaint. Ill explain why below.
DRN-1911735This was a non-advised sale. As such AXA didnt have to take reasonable steps to 
make sure the policy was suitable for Mrs Os needs. But it still had to give clear 
enough information so that Mrs O could decide for herself whether she wanted the cover.
Its possible that not all the information was as clear as it should have been. But even if 
the information could have been clearer, I still think Mrs O would have bought the cover. I 
say this as it appears Mrs O was eligible for the policy. Mrs O has told us that she was 
only working for her employer at the time of the sale for around two months. Mrs O has 
also explained that before working for this employer she had never been unemployed or had 
a long gap between her jobs. So, I dont think she would have been affected by any of 
the terms and conditions set out in the policy in relation to her employment circumstances 
which might have made it more difficult to make a claim if shed needed to.
As our adjudicator explained, Mrs O had a medical condition. Our adjudicator looked at this 
matter and thought it was one which should be upheld because of this. Following 
further information however, I dont think Mrs O would likely have thought her medical 
condition would have been a reason not to take out the policy. Mrs O has clarified that her 
medical condition was a condition which was managed and although I accept Mrs O has to 
see the doctor for regular check-ups, she has clarified that this condition doesn't affect her 
day to day life, and she has said she never had to take time off work for the condition. So I 
dont think its likely a reason for Mrs O to not want the policy. Taking into account 
everything Mrs O has told us, I dont intend to uphold her complaint because of her medical 
condition.
Even if the information given had been clearer, on balance, I dont think its likely Mrs 
O would have changed her mind about buying the cover for this reason.
Mrs O said she didn't need the policy as she would have received sick pay from 
her employer of at least six months full pay and that her partner could have supported her if 
she had needed help. But I have considered that this policy would have paid out in addition 
to and for longer than her sick pay would have lasted. And I dont doubt that it would have 
been the intention of those close to her to help. But circumstances can change and 
sometimes help isn't always available as and when it is needed, particularly for an extended 
time. If Mrs O had lost her job or was unable to work her household income would have 
reduced and as she was responsible for the payments, I still think the policy was useful.
Ive also considered whether Mrs O had a choice about buying the PPI. This policy was 
taken out in store. AXA has provided a copy of the credit agreement Mrs O saw and 
signed when she took out her store card. On it theres a section about the PPI. Its headed 
Account cover and Mrs O was asked to sign the box only if she wanted the cover. Mrs O 
has signed this section. She could have left it blank if she didn't want it. So, I think its likely 
Mrs O knew she had a choice about buying the PPI or leaving it. I also think the PPI would 
have appeared on Mrs Os statements so if she didn't want the policy or didn't know she had 
it she could have questioned it at the time - I havent seen evidence she did so.
Taking everything into account, on balance, I think its more likely that she agreed to take 
it out at the time knowing she could refuse it if she didn't want it even if its understandable 
if she cant remember that now after such a long time.
So, for the reasons Ive given above I still think the PPI could have been useful if Mrs O 
lost her job or couldn't work. And it seems as though she chose to buy the insurance  so it 
looks like she wanted that type of cover at the time. I havent seen anything to suggest 
the premiums were unaffordable. With that in mind, I dont think Mrs O would have 
acted differently even if AXA had given her more or better information about the policy.I am sorry to disappoint Mrs O, but after taking everything into account, it follows that Im 
not intending to uphold her complaint.
I asked that both parties to come back to me with any further information they wished me to 
consider before I made my final decision.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in 
deciding this case.
I sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties. Neither party has come back with 
any further comments or any other information which they wanted me to consider before 
making my final decision. In these circumstances I see no reason to depart from the findings 
I made in my provisional decision.
Overall, I cant say Miss O lost out because of anything AXA did wrong and I dont uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reason set out above and explained in the extract of my provisional decision, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman