DRN-4384078
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Amtrust Europe Limited rejected a claim on their legal 
expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had a dispute with a builder about work carried out on their property. They 
made a claim on their legal expenses policy to cover the costs of taking legal action against 
the builder.
Amtrust said the claim wasnt covered, because of an exclusion in the policy which meant it 
only covered this type of case where the amount in dispute is less than £5,000. Amtrust said 
the amount in dispute was more than this.
Mr and Mrs W complained. They said the exclusion amounted to an unfair term and should 
not be applied but Amtrust didnt agree. 
When they referred the complaint to this Service our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said Amtrust had applied the policy terms fairly. So Mr and Mrs W have 
requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy includes cover for breach of contract claims like the one Mr and Mrs W wish to 
bring but claims relating to construction or building disputes are excluded, unless the amount 
in dispute is less than £5,000. 
The policy only provides cover where the claim meets the requirements set out in the terms 
and conditions, including that it has a reasonable chance of success. Id expect an insurer to 
refer this to a solicitor to assess and thats what Amtrust did. 
In their initial assessment, the solicitors noted the exclusion for claims about construction 
disputes where the amount is above £5,000 and said this appeared to apply.
Mr and Mrs W indicated the amount in dispute was less than £5,000 but in further 
correspondence the solicitors advised that, while it wasnt clear what the value of the claim 
was, the cost of the contracted work was £52,000 and given the nature and extent of 
remedial work needed, the cost of that work was likely to be more than £5,000. The solicitors 
said the exclusion would apply, but if Mr and Mrs W could show the required work would 
cost less than £5,000 then they could continue with the claim. 
Given the explanation by the solicitors, it was reasonable for Amtrust to rely on what they 
said about cover for the claim and ask Mr and Mrs W for information about the amount in 
dispute. Mr and Mrs W havent shown the cost of the outstanding work is less than £5,000. 
(Indeed, on their claim form they had said it was likely to be £70,000). But they argue the 
term is unfair. They have referred to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 in support of this.
Its not for me to determine the law. My role is to decide whether Amtrust acted fairly when 
applying the policy terms. I need to take account of any relevant law when considering this, 
but that doesnt mean I have to apply the law in exactly the same way as a court. Rather, its 
one of the things I take it into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. 
I dont think it is unfair for Amtrust to apply this term. The Consumer Rights Act (and 
accompanying guidance) sets out what could make a contract term unfair  essentially 
where a term creates a significant imbalance in the rights of the parties to the detriment of 
the consumer. But the Act also identifies the need to take into account the subject matter of 
the contract, all the circumstances existing when the term was agreed and all the other 
terms of the contract.
No insurance policy will cover every risk that may result in a policyholder suffering financial 
loss. Its for insurers to decide what risks they want to accept and they will consider this 
when deciding whether to offer a policy  and how much to charge for it. Insurance is always 
subject to terms and conditions that limit the insurers liabilities to its policyholders. If a policy 
covered all foreseeable risks, the premium would be unaffordable for most people. So terms 
like this are not inherently unfair or unreasonable.
In this case, Amtrust is providing cover for a range of legal disputes but wants to limit cover 
for this type of claim. Building disputes can be complex and expensive, often requiring expert 
evidence. Its not unusual for policies to limit cover for building disputes in this way.
Although Mr and Mrs W argue the exclusion unfairly restricts cover and prevents them 
making use of the policy, I dont think thats the case. The term doesnt remove Mr and 
Mrs Ws right to make a claim. The rest of the cover provided by the policy is still available to 
them; its simply that a limit of £5,000 is in place for this particular type of dispute. And this is 
clearly set out in the policy terms.
I know the situation has been very difficult for Mr and Mrs W; they naturally have concerns 
about the building work and the affect this has had on their home. But those issues are 
between them and the builder. 
I can only consider the way the insurance claim has been dealt with and for the reasons set 
out above, Im satisfied Amtrusts decision is in line with the policy terms and is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman