DRN-2743373
The complaint
Mr R complains Skyfire Insurance Company Limited unfairly increased the premium on his 
motor insurance policy when he moved to a new house, and that they took too long to tell 
him why the premium had increased so significantly. 
What happened
Mr R renewed his motor insurance policy with Skyfire in March 2019. The policy was 
administered by another business but Skyfire were the insurer and were named on the 
certificate of insurance. Mr R chose to pay his premium in monthly instalments.
Mr R amended his address on-line and Skyfire issued an updated certificate of insurance 
with an increase in premium for the rest of the year. Skyfire sent an updated certificate of 
insurance to Mr R and an email telling him what his revised monthly instalments would be. 
After a direct debit wasnt paid, Mr R called Skyfire. They agreed to spread the missed 
payment over the remaining year and adjust the direct debit.
Mr R called Skyfire again the following month to tell them the next payment was due, but he 
wouldnt be paid until the following day. Skyfire said they would still attempt the payment but 
if it wasnt paid they would re-apply a few days later and would waive the fee for a failed 
direct debit as a gesture of goodwill. 
No further payments were made on the policy and on 20 September, Skyfire wrote to Mr R 
to tell him the policy would be cancelled if he didnt pay the outstanding premiums. And that 
the premiums due up until the cancellation date would be payable. Skyfire say this letter was 
addressed to Mr R at his new address but was returned.
Mr R called Skyfire on 30 September and told them he hadnt been able to work due to long 
term problems but hoped he would be able to afford payments soon. After further 
discussions between Mr R and Skyfire about the premium, the policy was cancelled on 17 
October. Skyfire passed the case to their collection department at the end of October.
In November, Mr R contacted a third party to act as his representative to help him obtain 
clarification from Skyfire why the premium on his motor insurance policy had increased 
significantly when he only changed address. Mr Rs representative wrote to Skyfire in 
November and chased for a response twice more in December. When no response was 
received, Mr R and his representative raised a complaint with our service in January 2020. 
Skyfire provided a final response to Mr R by email on 16 June. They explained why the 
premium had increased. They added Mr R had been sent a new certificate of insurance to 
reflect the amended premium and was told of the new monthly premium. Skyfire explained 
that because the direct debits were returned unpaid, and the arrears on the policy were 
unpaid, the policy was cancelled on 17 October 2019. They told Mr R the outstanding 
amount on the policy was £679.24 and that when this remained unpaid, they had issued a 
default notice in January 2020. Skyfire said theyd already waived the £50.00 cancellation 
fee and would deduct a further £30.00 default fee from the outstanding balance, leaving Mr 
R with £649.24 to pay. Skyfire said they didnt uphold the complaint and didnt think they had 
done anything wrong because the address was changed by Mr R on line and the price 
accepted at that time.
Mr R was unhappy with the response from Skyfire and brought his complaint to our service. 
He said the increase in premium was excessive, and he had been harassed for payment 
even though Skyfire were aware the case was in dispute and he was vulnerable.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R and thought that as Skyfire had made him aware 
of the increase in premium they didnt do anything wrong. And they were entitled to ask for 
the proportion of the premium due while the policy was in effect. Our investigator thought it 
wasnt unfair for Skyfire to pass the outstanding balance to a debt collection agency as they 
hadnt been able to arrange a repayment plan with Mr R. And our investigator thought 
because Mr R made the amendments to his policy on-line, Skyfire had no opportunity to 
consider Mr Rs vulnerability.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators view and says that Skyfire knew the debt was in dispute 
but still passed the account to debt collectors. And this was at a time when Mr R was 
suffering from mental health issues and Skyfire were aware of this. Mr R said he considered 
the increase in insurance premium was exorbitant.  
As I didnt agree with what our investigator thought I issued a provisional decision and asked 
Mr R and Skyfire for any further comments or evidence. In my provisional decision I said:
I consider there are two distinct aspects to Mr Rs complaint, and I will address each 
in turn.
Increase in premium
Although Im sure Mr R will be disappointed with my decision in this regard, for very 
much the same reasons as our investigator, Ive provisionally decided not to uphold 
this complaint. I will now explain why.
When Mr R changed his address on-line, Skyfire acted quickly in telling him that his 
premium would increase and by how much. Therefore, Mr R was aware of the 
increase in premium and that the monthly direct debit would increase accordingly. 
Ive seen that Mr R went on to have a telephone discussion with Skyfire about a 
missed direct debit payment in June, and he later told them the July payment may 
also be missed. In my view this persuades me Mr R knew of the amended premium 
and terms. Mr R also told Skyfire he couldnt afford the payments in September, and 
Skyfire tried to amend the pricing by lowering the value for his car, but the price of 
the cover didnt change. The policy was then cancelled in October with unpaid 
premiums and charges of £679.24.
I empathise with Mr R that it wouldve been a shock to be told his premium would 
increase significantly because he had moved address. However, we cant tell a 
business what they should charge for motor insurance cover, but we can assess 
whether they treated a consumer fairly when they increased the premium. Ive seen 
how Skyfire calculated the new premium and Ive reviewed their calculations and I 
cant see that they have done anything wrong here. Theyve shown me the factors 
they considered and how the difference in premium was calculated. Im satisfied that 
the significant factor in the increase in premium is related to the change of address. 
Mr R and his representative say Mr R could obtain insurance cheaper from another 
insurer and I accept that may be the case. However, insurers may have different 
factors they take into account, and this may result in a different premium based on similar circumstances, but this doesnt mean Skyfire have done anything wrong. Mr R 
accepted the premium increase at the time and made at least one of the new monthly 
payments, so its reasonable for me to conclude he was aware of the ongoing cost of 
the cover. I understand Mr R later had problems meeting the cost of the cover due to 
health issues, but I will address this later in my decision.
So, Ive provisionally decided Skyfire didnt treat Mr R unfairly when they increased 
the premium on his motor insurance policy after he changed his address.
Communication before and after the policy was cancelled
The policy was cancelled on 17 October 2019 and Ive seen that Skyfires notes say 
they called Mr R the day after and left a voicemail message. There was no further 
contact until Mr Rs representative wrote to Skyfire on 12 November requesting an 
explanation for the premium increase and clarification of the outstanding amount on 
the policy. The representative chased Skyfire for a response twice more in 
December, and in the second letter enclosed a Debt and Mental Health Evidence 
form that highlighted Mr Rs vulnerability. Although our investigator says he couldnt 
be sure these letters were sent, I have a different perspective on this issue. The 
letters are correctly addressed, and Im persuaded its more likely the letters were 
sent by the representative. Its possible a letter may not have arrived at Skyfire, but I 
think its unlikely that all three didnt arrive. 
Ive not been provided with any response to these letters, nor have I seen any 
reference to them in Skyfires notes, but Ive seen Skyfire did write to Mr R on 17 
January 2020 to issue a default notice. Skyfire then passed the account to a debt 
collection agency on 17 March.
It wasnt until Mr Rs representative raised his complaint with our service and we 
contacted Skyfire that they issued a response to his concerns. The final response in 
June 2020 explained why the premium increased and what the outstanding balance 
on the account was. However, Skyfire didnt address the delay in responding, nor 
why the account had been passed to a debt collection agency when it was in dispute. 
It also didnt address the health concerns Mr R had mentioned in his September 
2019 call, and which his representative had also highlighted.
Mr Rs representative says he then had to email the debt collection agency to advise 
them of Mr Rs vulnerability and tell them the matter was being considered by our 
service. The debt collection agency responded and said they had closed the account 
and passed it back to Skyfire in view of the concerns raised.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) defines vulnerable customers as, "someone 
who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially susceptible to detriment, 
particularly when a firm is not acting with appropriate levels of care". And, the FCA 
has told business that when a customer seeks help and support they should treat 
them with sensitivity and flexibility and be responsive to their needs.
As early as 30 September 2019, Skyfire ought to have been aware Mr R had health 
issues that may have already been impacting his ability to pay premiums for a few 
months. Indeed, in their response to Mr Rs telephone call that day, Skyfire said they 
were sorry to hear he had been unwell. I wouldve expected Skyfire to have been 
proactive here and ask Mr R if he needed any support and, if he did, what support 
they may be able to offer him if required. I cant see this happened here. 
Skyfire missed a further opportunity to consider Mr Rs vulnerabilities in December 2019 when his representative sent them the Debt and Mental Health Evidence form. 
Ive reviewed the Debt and Mental Health Evidence form and Im persuaded the 
failure of Skyfire to acknowledge Mr Rs vulnerability wouldve added to his stress 
and affected his mental health issues at this time. Skyfire compounded this further by 
passing Mr Rs account to a debt collection agency who continued to chase him for 
payment. And, although Ive not been provided with specific text messages, emails 
and letters from the debt collection agency, Im persuaded they would have been 
chasing Mr R for payment because Mr Rs representative felt the need to write to 
them separately to ask them to consider their actions. Im persuaded this would have 
had a further negative impact on Mr Rs mental health, and I dont consider referring 
the debt to a third-party demonstrates any degree of sensitivity and flexibility of Mr 
Rs needs.
So, although Ive provisionally decided Skyfire didnt treat Mr R unfairly when they 
increased his premium, I consider their communication before and after the policy 
ended didnt take into account Mr Rs vulnerability. I consider Skyfires delay in 
providing Mr R with a response to the enquiries made by his representative, and their 
subsequent escalation of the account to a debt collection agency after they had 
received evidence of Mr Rs vulnerability, wouldve made this more stressful for Mr R.
Skyfire ought reasonably to have been aware of Mr Rs vulnerability in September 
2019, but their final response to the complaint didnt address this matter. And even 
after responding to the complaint Skyfire didnt take steps to stop the ongoing contact 
from the debt collection agency. Mr Rs representative had to raise the matter with 
this agency directly. This will have had an ongoing impact on Mr Rs mental health. 
So, for almost a year, Skyfire failed to recognise Mr R was vulnerable. They didnt 
take action that was positive or treat him with sensitivity and they showed no 
flexibility by proceeding to instruct a debt collection agency without considering the 
impact on Mr R. 
Im persuaded that Mr Rs representative submission that he was left feeling suicidal 
and depressed is likely to have been the case. Therefore, I intend to tell Skyfire to 
pay Mr R the sum of £500.00 to reflect the impact on him of their failure to take into 
account his vulnerability when they ought to have known he may have been 
susceptible to detriment. The provisional remedy is at this level because Skyfire 
didnt take and positive steps or show any sensitivity to Mr Rs vulnerability even after 
they provided a final response. Mr Rs representative had to make further 
submissions direct to the debt collection agency to ask them to stop contacting Mr R. 
This exacerbated the impact on Mr R for several more months.
My provisional decision
Ive provisionally decided that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited didnt treat Mr R 
unfairly when they increased his motor insurance premium. However, Ive 
provisionally decided that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited failed to positively and 
sensitively support Mr R when they were made aware of his vulnerability, and they 
should pay Mr R £500.00 to reflect the impact this had on him. 
Both Mr R and Skyfire accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As both parties accepted my provisional decision I have decided to adopt this as my final 
decision. Ive therefore decided Skyfire didnt treat Mr R unfairly when they increased his 
motor insurance premium, but they did fail to positively and sensitively support Mr R when 
he told them of his vulnerability. I consider Skyfire is entitled to request the outstanding 
premium from Mr R, but that they should pay him £500 to reflect the impact on him of their 
failure to recognise his vulnerability. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Skyfire Insurance Company Limited 
should pay Mr R the sum of £500 for the reasons I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my final decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman