DRN-2828373
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Capital One (Europe) plc decided that she was liable for disputed 
payments made using her credit card.
What happened
In December 2020, Mrs N contacted Capital One and said she didnt recognise some recent 
payments from her account. The payments were from the following online merchants:
Google Play
Microsoft
Apple
Steam Games
Capital One blocked Mrs Ns card and issued her a new one while it looked into the disputed 
payments. It decided that Mrs N was liable for the disputed payments. In its response, 
Capital One said it had found that Mrs N accessed her mobile banking throughout the 
duration of these transactions and that similar payments were attempted using the new card 
that was issued to her. Capital One identified that it had provided Mrs N with poor customer 
service and paid her £50 compensation to put things right.
Remaining unhappy, Mrs N asked this service to get involved. As part of her complaint, 
Mrs N says:
She doesnt hold a Microsoft or Google Play account and no-one in her family take 
part in gaming or own a console
She lives with her spouse and daughter and her son visits occasionally
No-one else has had access to her home and she has her own letterbox
Her credit card is kept secure in her bag and shes never shared her card or PIN with 
anyone, nor has she recorded this information anywhere
She thinks her card details were compromised via another online retailer 
Mrs N didnt express any further dissatisfaction with the service shed received from Capital 
One  so I wont be commenting on this further. 
Our investigator concluded that Capital One had acted fairly. The investigator was satisfied 
that the payments were authenticated and that the information shed seen lead her to 
conclude that either Mrs N, or someone authorised by her had carried out the disputed 
payments. 
Mrs N didnt agree  she referred to a successful disputed payment claim made by a family 
member and suggested that Capital One had used her card details unlawfully. As she didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, Capital One can hold Mrs N liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that she made or authorised them herself. The relevant
regulations to this effect are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). 
Im satisfied that the genuine card was used for the disputed payments. Mrs N says her 
credit card has remained secure in her bag and that no-one else has access to it. 
Capital One has provided information breaking down each transaction  this shows that the 
disputed payments were all made using Mrs Ns credit card. And following Mrs Ns original 
card being cancelled and Capital One issuing her a new one  the information Ive seen 
shows that the new card was used for the more recent disputed payments. 
Mrs N denies any knowledge of these payments and says shes never used the Microsoft 
store or Google Play. However, its my opinion that Mrs N, or someone she authorised has 
most likely carried out these payments  Ill explain why. 
Ive firstly considered the possibility that an unknown third party could have fraudulently used 
Mrs Ns credit card. Mrs N suggests that her card details were compromised via another 
online retailer and more recently suggested Capital One was responsible for the disputed 
payments. But Ive seen nothing to make me think this is likely to have been the case.
Following Mrs N reporting these payments as unrecognised, Capital One blocked her credit 
card and issued her a new one. The information Ive seen shows that the new card was used 
for the additional disputed payments that took place in January 2021. Mrs N says that no-
one else has access to her card and that she has her own letterbox. Its unlikely an unknown 
third party would be able to access both cards, so I havent seen enough to persuade me 
that her card details may have been compromised. 
The pattern of spending on the credit card also doesnt suggest it was in the hands of an 
opportunistic thief. The disputed payments appear to have been relatively small amounts 
and mostly under £10. Had an unknown third party made these payments, its likely they 
wouldve tried to maximise use of Mrs Ns credit card straight away, rather than carry out 
relatively small transactions. So I think its unlikely that an unknown third party fraudulently 
carried out the disputed payments.
Ive also considered whether someone known to Mrs N couldve carried out the disputed 
payments. Its certainly a possible circumstance here, given that someone known to Mrs N 
could have accessed her credit card details. Its also possible then that this person would 
have the ability to access Mrs Ns new credit card after her original one was blocked. Capital 
Ones records indicate that, for many of the disputed payments, the internet protocol (IP) 
address seems to match the IP address for Mrs Ns mobile banking sessions. So, as our 
investigator set out, its likely the payments were made in close proximity to Mrs Ns home - 
if not within it.
Capital One also says an address verification check was carried out via the Microsoft Store 
in January 2021  indicating that someone was attempting to register Mrs Ns new card. This 
makes me think its possible that someone close to Mrs N may have carried out these 
payments, as they wouldve needed access to her new credit card in order to attempt 
registering it with the merchant. 
Mrs N says that no-one else has access to her credit card and this makes it seem unlikely 
that a known third party used her card without her consent. So, although I cant say for 
certain, I think its unlikely that the disputed payments were made by someone close to 
Mrs N, without her consent. The information Capital One has provided shows that each of the disputed payments were 
authenticated. And each transaction was processed in one of two ways  either the card 
details had to be input manually, or the details were already on the system. Looking at when 
these payments first began, I can see that Mrs Ns credit card details had to be entered on 
most occasions at the start. And throughout the whole period these payments took place, I 
can see her card details needed entering periodically.
Capital One also recently told us that the payments were set up as recurring payments  this 
means the merchant had Mrs Ns card details stored in its records to continue charging the 
card for purchases. But as I said, Mrs Ns credit card details needed entering periodically to 
continue authenticating the disputed payments. So, in order to successfully authenticate 
these payments, someone needed to have regular access to Mrs Ns credit card.
Capital Ones records show that Mrs N regularly accessed her mobile banking account 
throughout the period the disputed payments took place. And, more significantly, shed been 
doing so for around the two months prior to reporting the payments as unrecognised. Mrs N 
says she didnt notice or realise the payments had been made and this why she hadnt 
reported the transactions sooner. 
However, Im not persuaded by this submission given the sheer volume of transactions that 
took place over the period in question. On balance, given Mrs N had been logging on to her 
mobile banking account regularly, I think its likely she did notice the disputed payments and 
didnt report them straight away because she had authorised them. So, in my opinion, its 
likely Mrs N did in fact recognise and authorise the payments she now disputes. 
Taking everything into account, its difficult for me to conclude that somebody other than 
Mrs N, or someone she authorised carried out the payments she is now disputing. So I wont 
be asking Capital One to reimburse her.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman