DRN-1885093
 
The complaint
Company L complained about Unicom Insurance Services Limited. They arent happy that a 
claim was turned down under their commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
L took out commercial motor insurance through their broker Unicom. And when they made a 
claim following the theft of a vehicle under the policy it was turned down. This was because 
the vehicle was imported and hadnt been registered in the United Kingdom. And claims for 
vehicles not registered in the UK were excluded under the policy.
L wasnt happy about this as they thought the policy had been mis-sold. So they complained 
to Unicom and then this service. Unicom felt that the exclusion was clear in the policy 
documentation. And highlighted that it asked L about whether it would have imported 
vehicles under the policy when they first took the policy out and L said no. 
Our investigator looked into things for L but didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that 
Unicom had made it clear that any imported vehicle from Europe had to be registered in the 
UK within 28 days to be covered under the policy. So she thought Unicom had made it clear 
and that the policy hadnt been mis-sold.
As L didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I dont think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I can understand why L is unhappy. They simply want their claim paid after the theft of their 
vehicle. But I have to look at whats fair to both sides and having considered all the 
evidence, including the telephone calls from when the policy was taken, I dont think Unicom 
did anything wrong or the policy was mis-sold.
Having listened to the calls I agree that things couldve been clearer. But L asks Unicom 
about the imported section of the policy. And I think Unicom make it very clear that L was 
free to drive European vehicles but you have 28 days from when they arrive in the UK to be 
registered and Unicom reiterated this to L before the call was finalised.
Furthermore, Ive looked at the policy documentation and I think it is clear that any European 
imported vehicles would have to be registered within 28 days of arrival in the UK. Indeed, the 
key facts document, which highlights any significant issues and exclusions that should be 
brought to a purchasers attention, makes the exclusion clear.
So, although I can understand Ls position, I dont think the policy was mis-sold and I wont be asking Unicom to take any action here. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman