DRN-4121305
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that when they went on holiday their card for their Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds) account was declined on a number of occasions. Mr C says this caused a lot of 
distress and inconvenience and the subsequent advice they were given regarding a Lasting 
Power of Attorney (POA) caused offence and was discriminatory. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C went on holiday abroad and Mr C contacted Lloyds and informed it about this 
prior to leaving. On 14 January 2023 the account was fraud checked due to a suspicious 
transaction attempted with their card while abroad and the card was blocked.
Lloyds tried messaging Mr and Mrs C about the transaction but as their contact details 
werent up to date, they didnt receive the message and they werent able to proceed with 
the transaction. Mr C has confirmed that on return from holiday Lloyds had left messages 
regarding the transaction.
Mr and Mrs C complained about this as it impacted the enjoyment of their holiday and was 
particularly distressing for Mrs C who suffers from dementia. 
Lloyds agreed that the overall service it offered was lacking and paid £100 compensation to 
settle the complaint. Mr C now feels this was insufficient in particular due to the offence 
caused by suggesting they register a POA and so brought their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Cs concerns and reached the conclusion 
that although Mr and Mrs C had been inconvenienced by the security measures Lloyds had 
in place, they thought they were reasonable and Lloyds hadnt made an error applying them.
They thought the £100 compensation for the service Mr and Mrs C had received was a fair 
way to compensate them.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint. 
I hope that Mr and Mrs C wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in 
the way that I have. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our 
rules allow me to do that. And the crux of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is that a block was 
applied to their cards whilst abroad and the subsequent advice they received they felt was 
discriminatory and offensive.  
It might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make the 
bank change its systems or processes  such as how transactions are processed or what 
security measures a bank puts in place. We offer an informal dispute resolution service and 
we have no regulatory or disciplinary role.
My role is to look at the problems Mr and Mrs C have experienced and see if the Lloyds has 
done anything wrong or treated them unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr 
and Mrs C back in the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I 
may award compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
In this case it is not disputed that Mr and Mrs C had trouble using their card abroad and that 
a fraud block was applied. The transaction history supplied by Lloyds shows that there were 
five occasions where Mr and Mrs C had transactions declined over two days, though either 
side of this period Mr and Mrs C were able to transact.
From what I understand this was due to an automatic fraud check that was applied and this 
being the case it wouldve made no difference that Mr C had informed Lloyds of their 
intended destination of travel prior to leaving. 
I also understand that this is a standard security measure applied and what usually happens 
is that the customer would receive a message asking them to confirm the transaction 
following which the card would be unblocked.
So what I need to decide is whether it was fair of Lloyds to apply the block  especially given 
Lloyds had been informed of Mr and Mrs Cs travel plans in advance. And overall, I think it 
was. Lloyds may well have been provided with information about Mr and Mrs C travel plans 
but that doesnt mean that transactions made on their account shouldnt still be subject to 
security measures that Lloyds has in place or that they couldnt be the victims of fraud in 
another country. 
Unfortunately, in Mr and Mrs Cs case the contact details Lloyds had for them werent up to 
date and they didnt receive a text message asking them to confirm the attempted 
transaction. This meant and the block remained on the card longer than usual and resulted 
in them being inconvenienced more than was necessary. 
But Lloyds have provided internal records that show Mr C only provided it with his up to date 
mobile number following his return from travel. So although I appreciate that having the 
block applied to the card caused Mr and Mrs C some distress and inconvenience, I cant say 
that this was through any error made on Lloyds part.
And I also dont think the security measures were unfair. Indeed, while I wouldnt tell Lloyds 
how to run its business or what security measures it needs in place, I would expect it to take 
reasonable measures to protect its customers against theft and fraud.
Mr and Mrs C also took offence by the suggestion a POA was registered for Mrs C and that 
they thought this was discriminatory and that the options provided for unlocking Mrs Cs card 
werent appropriate. I appreciate Mrs Cs condition is a particularly sensitive issue. But 
having reviewed the notes Im satisfied the suggestion to register a POA was because 
Lloyds had been informed of Mrs Cs condition and it believed that this may be something 
that would assist Mrs C in the future and not intended to cause offence. Indeed, I can see 
not long after this the process to register a POA had started. So I dont think Lloyds have 
been discriminatory regarding Mrs Cs condition.
I do however think that some confusing and contradictory information was provided by 
Lloyds when trying to resolve this matter and I think Lloyds couldve done more to prevent this happening in the first place by simply confirming with Mr C that it had their up to date 
contact details when he notified it they were going abroad. 
If Mr C has the forethought to inform Lloyds about his upcoming travel plans, I think Lloyds 
shouldve also been able to reasonably foresee that not ensuring the number it holds for him 
is up to date might cause some issues for security when transacting abroad. 
But I can see that Lloyds has already compensated Mr and Mrs C £100 for the service they 
received and Im not persuaded an uplift on this would make a material difference to their 
circumstances. So I think the £100 already paid is a fair way to settle Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint and Im not going to ask that it do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman