DRN-2534581
The complaint
Mr S complains that 3J Finance Limited wont allow him to stop payments on a loan he took 
out to pay for on-line educational courses he bought for his sons. He says these were 
misrepresented to him. He brings his complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974.
What happened
In November 2018, Mr S was in contact with a supplier of on-line educational courses whom 
Ill call E. He was interested in these for his two sons then aged 12 and 7 respectively. E 
arranged for his sons to take some tests in English and Maths, and based on the results of 
these recommended a number of modules in English and Maths.
Mr S agreed to buy the courses with these modules. The cash price amounted to £5,940. 
Mr S paid £100 in cash, and entered into an interest free loan from 3J Finance for the 
balance, repayable over 5 years by instalments of £97.34 each month.
In 2019, Mr S complained to E and to 3J Finance that one of his sons had already completed 
the English course. So he didnt see why he should continue to pay the full monthly amount 
for the rest of the 5 years. He wanted to stop or reduce the repayments.
He thought the fact his elder son had been able to complete the modules so quickly meant 
they had been mis-sold. He also said his sons hadnt received the support from E that had 
been promised.
E and 3J Finance didnt agree that the terms of the loan should be altered. 3J Finance said 
Es Customer Agreement/Order Form which Mr S signed in 2018 made it clear what he was 
buying, and the terms of purchase. So he knew he was buying a 15 module programme, 
financed by a loan from 3J Finance.
E said the younger son still had 5 modules of the English programme, and 5 modules of the 
maths programme, to complete; the elder son still had 2 maths modules to complete. Both 
still had the GCSE revision programme available to them.
Neither son had reached the Gold status on the majority of the lessons 
attempted/completed, and so hadnt achieved full understanding of the topics covered. They 
hadnt watched the tutorials on many of these lessons. 
In addition, as the programme came with a Lifetime Licence, the family would continue to 
have access to the modules over and over again for revision purposes for 10 years from the 
date of sale. Repetition of the lessons was recommended for full understanding. The family 
would also benefit from the Additional Support Services for 5 years from the date of sale.
E said it continued to be willing to assist the family in the use of the programme, and 
suggested Mr S contacted it to discuss ways it could assist.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr S said his elder 
son hadnt been assessed correctly because he had been able to complete the 
recommended modules quickly. But E said neither son had completed all the modules, or 
made full use of the modules purchased to the highest possible levels.
Mr S said this was because E had failed to provide the support it promised although they 
had contacted E to ask for this. But he couldnt provide the investigator with any evidence 
that they had done so.
The investigator said that in certain circumstances section 75 provided that a finance 
provider like 3J Finance could be equally liable with the supplier of goods and services for 
misrepresentation and breach or contract. But he wasnt satisfied there had been any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by E here for which he could hold 3J Finance liable.
The investigator said it was difficult to argue that following the assessments E carried out it 
had sold Mr S modules that were too simple for his elder son, as his children still hadnt 
completed all of these and most of those that were done werent completed to the highest 
standard.
Mr S said the reason his sons hadnt completed the modules was that they had been unable 
to get help from E on them as had been promised. But Mr S was unable to provide any 
evidence to the investigator that they had tried to contact E for help. E and 3J Finance had 
both said they were willing to provide further support if needed.
So the investigator said, on the information available to him, E had provided the modules 
agreed upon, and hadnt failed to assist with the completion of those modules. So he 
couldnt recommend the termination of Mr Ss agreement with 3J Finance.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators recommendation. He said he was told by E before 
buying the modules that they would take his elder son 3 years to complete, and they would 
last him until he completed his GCSEs. But he hasnt produced any evidence to support this.
He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So it has been passed to me 
to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find that Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.
I think its difficult to argue that, effectively, the modules werent of a high enough standard 
for his elder son when he hasnt completed some, or achieved a top standard in the ones he 
has done. And Im not persuaded, on the evidence Ive seen, that E or 3J Finance have 
failed to provide the assistance promised to his sons to enable them to make full use of the 
modules.
So I dont think there has been any misrepresentation or breach of contract by E in relation 
to the modules sold to Mr S for which I could hold 3J Finance responsible. I cant reasonably 
require 3J Finance to terminate or amend its loan agreement with Mr S.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against 3J Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman