DRN-2640734
The complaint
Mr B complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited and the service he received after 
he made a claim on his gadget insurance policy for the repair of his laptop.
What happened
Mr B held a packaged bank account with Lender B. This account provided him with several 
insurance products. Included within this was gadget insurance, which was provided by 
Assurant.
In November 2020, Mr B contacted Assurant to make a claim for a screen replacement on 
his laptop. This claim was accepted, and the screen was repaired. But when Mr B received 
his repaired laptop, he found scratches on his laptop that he didnt think were there 
originally. He contacted Assurant to make them aware of this.
Assurant said they couldnt say for certain that they didnt cause the scratches Mr B referred 
to. So, they offered Mr B a cash settlement for his laptop so he could replace it. They offered 
Mr B £779.99, which was based on the price of a refurbished laptop of the same make and 
model theyd found online. But Mr B wasnt happy with this offer, so he raised a complaint.
Mr B complained about the cash settlement Assurant offered. He thought he should be 
offered a cash settlement that would allow him to purchase a new laptop, as the laptop 
Assurant repaired and damaged had been new when hed bought it originally. He didnt think 
it was fair that he could only purchased a refurbished laptop when he thought Assurant had 
been the one to make an error. And he also raised concerns about the length of time it had 
taken Assurant to repair his laptop initially and then return it when he refused the cash 
settlement.
Assurant upheld Mr Bs complaint in part. They agreed the repair had taken longer than it 
shouldve done. And they recognised the inconvenience this wouldve caused Mr B being 
without it, and the times hed chased them for updates. But they thought theyd acted fairly 
when offering a cash settlement based on a refurbished model, as this fell within the terms 
and conditions of the policy he held. So, they offered Mr B £75 to compensate him for the 
delays and the inconvenience this caused. Mr B accepted this compensation amount, but he 
didnt think this fairly addressed his concerns about the cash settlement. So, he referred his 
complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold it. He recognised Assurant didnt dispute they may have 
caused the scratches to the laptop. And he recognised the upset this wouldve caused Mr B. 
But he thought Assurants cash settlement offer was a fair one as it fell within the terms and 
conditions of the policy. He explained Mr Bs laptop wasnt new at the time he sent his laptop 
to Assurant to repair it, so he wouldnt expect Assurant to provide Mr B with a cash 
settlement that allow him to buy a new laptop. And because of this, he didnt think Assurant 
needed to increase the cash settlement amount. 
He also thought the £75 Assurant offered was reasonable to recognise the delays and the 
inconvenience this caused Mr B. So, he didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr B 
didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr B. Ive no doubt it wouldve 
been upsetting for Mr B to receive his laptop back in a worse condition than when he sent it. 
And I can appreciate the inconvenience this wouldve caused Mr B as he was without a 
laptop for an extended period of time when he needed this for work purposes. Ive seen 
Assurant have offered £75 to recognise this inconvenience, which Mr B accepted. And Ive 
seen Assurant offered Mr B a cash settlement of £779.99 to replace his laptop with a similar 
make and model. So, I think Assurant took steps to address the mistakes they made.
For me to say Assurant have acted unfairly, Id need to see that they failed to act in line with 
their terms and conditions when offering this cash settlement. And if that wasnt the case, Id 
need to see that Assurants offer failed to place Mr B back in the same position he wouldve 
been, had the damage not been caused to the laptop. And in this situation, I dont think thats 
the case.
As its not in dispute that Mr Bs laptop was sent back with damage that was their previously, 
Ive focused my decision based on the steps Assurant took to address this.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr B held with Assurant. They explain if a 
device is damaged or breaks down Assurant will:
 repair the device, or
 replace it with a device of the same make and model. If we cannot do this you will be given 
a choice of models with an equivalent specification. In the event we are unable to provide a
replacement we will contact you to discuss an alternative claim settlement.
They also explain that:
 Where we replace the device the replacement may be a remanufactured (not brand new)
device.
In this situation, Mr Bs model had been discontinued so a new laptop of the same make and 
model was unavailable. But they were able to source a refurbished one. Ive seen this was 
found on an online retailer, which provided a one-year warranty. The laptop was priced at 
£779.99, so Assurant offered Mr B a cash settlement equivalent to that price. 
I think the terms and conditions allow Assurant to provide Mr B with an alternative settlement 
if a straight forward replacement cant be provided. In this situation, as the model was 
discontinued, they were unable to do so. So, I think theyve acted reasonably when offering 
a cash settlement as the alternative.
And the terms and conditions also explain that theyre able to provide a remanufactured 
replacement. In this situation, I dont think a brand-new laptop of the same make and model 
wouldve been available as it had been discontinued. So, I think a remanufactured laptop 
was the only option available at the time. So again, I think Assurant acted within the terms of the policy by offering a cash settlement based on the price of a refurbished model.
Ive then considered whether I think Assurant were fair to do so. Mr B doesnt think they 
were, as when he bought the damaged laptop he bought it new. So, he feels as though he 
should receive a new laptop in return. But I dont think thats the case.
Although Mr B purchased the laptop new, it wouldnt have been new when he sent it to 
Assurant for repair. Laptops will devalue as they age and are used. So, I dont think Mr Bs 
laptop was of the same value as a brand-new laptop. If Assurant were to offer Mr B a cash 
settlement equivalent to buying a new laptop, I think this would place him in a better position 
than when the error by Assurant occurred. And this isnt something Id expect Assurant to 
do.
Had the error not occurred, Mr B wouldve been left with a functioning laptop of that make 
and model, without the scratches he identified. The cash settlement Assurant offered 
allowed Mr B to purchase a laptop of the same make and model, without the scratches he 
was unhappy about. So, I think the settlement Assurant offered was a fair one, that placed 
Mr B back in the position he wouldve been had his laptop not been scratched. And because 
of this, I dont think it would be fair for me to say that Assurant should do anything more in 
relation to this.
Im aware that Mr B accepted the £75.00 Assurant offered to recognise the inconvenience 
he suffered following delays to the repair and the return of his laptop. And I think this was a 
fair offer that took into consideration the time he was without his laptop unnecessarily, 
considering Mr B wouldve been aware hed be without the laptop for some time due to the 
initial repair needing to be completed.
So, I dont think Assurant need to do anything more. I understand this isnt the outcome Mr B 
was hoping for, but I hope it goes some way to providing a more in-depth explanation about 
why Assurant have acted fairly, and in line with the terms of the policy he holds.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Assurant General 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman