DRN-2146591
The complaint
Mr P is complaining about the way Close Brothers Limited has looked to resolve a complaint 
hes raise about the misrepresentation of a car it supplied him under a conditional sale 
agreement.
What happened
In February 2019 Mr P entered into a conditional sale agreement to acquire a car. The 
agreement was arranged by a supplying dealership, who I shall refer to as G. The cash price 
of the car was around £21,000, it was around seven years old and had travelled around 
13,000 miles. He financed the acquisition through a combination of part-exchanging his old 
car, a cash deposit and the balance financed through the conditional sale agreement. 
Two weeks after he acquired the car, Mr P reported a warning light had appeared on the 
dashboard. He was told this was down to an issue with the nitrous oxide which was topped 
up. However a couple of weeks later, Mr P reported a further issue with the nitrous oxide and 
also an issue with the Adblue. He also said the air conditioning (aircon) wasnt working 
properly.
Mr P says he was told the aircon just needed topping up. But he says he took it to a garage 
and was told there was actually an issue with the aircon system sensors that needed fixing. 
Mr P says he tried to contact G, but he says he didnt get a response. So he then contacted 
Close Brothers as the supplier of the car to say he wanted to hand the car back. He also 
highlighted he was initially told the car would come with a number of features that it later 
turned out it didnt have  notably adaptive cruise control, a different sound system, DAB 
radio and a multi-CD changer. 
Close Brothers didnt think there was a misrepresentation as it highlighted that the online 
advertisement platform said the description of the cars advertised arent necessarily 
accurate and it was Mr Ps responsibility to check he was buying the car he thought he was. 
It also initially said the car just needed to go back to G to have the aircon topped up. 
However, it later accepted the issue with the car was more extensive. So it said it was willing 
to allow Mr P to reject the car and it also agreed to refund the deposit Mr P paid.
Mr P didnt accept Close Brothers offer as he thinks it needed to refund everything hed 
paid. He thinks G acted fraudulently in putting false information on the online advert. So he 
thinks its unfair that Close Brothers profits from this agreement. Mr P also highlighted he 
received two fines from the car he part-exchanged which he said were down to the actions of 
G.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think G had induced Mr P into entering into 
the contract by giving false statements of facts. He thought Mr P should have been aware 
some of the features werent there  notably the DAB digital radio, the different sound 
system and that the car didnt come with adjustable door mirrors. He accepted Mr P wouldnt 
have known the car didnt come with adaptive cruise control. However he thought Mr P 
would have still acquired the car, even if he hadnt been told the car came with these 
features.
However, he said, given Close Brothers had allowed Mr P to reject the car, he didnt need to 
decide whether there was a breach of contract or not. He said the only issue to consider was 
whether Close Brother had fairly compensated Mr P. He didnt think it had.
In particular the investigator didnt think it had considered the impact this has had on Mr Ps 
ability to use the car. He initially thought Close Brothers should refund 20% of the monthly 
payments he made. But Close Brothers thought this was excessive as it didnt think the 
extras Mr P expected to receive with the car would have had much of an impact on the its 
usage. It thought a 10% refund was a better reflection of the loss of usage. The investigator 
agreed with Close Brothers in this respect and thought 10% was a fair price reduction.
The investigator also thought Close Brothers should refund the fines Mr P had incurred in 
respect to the car he part-exchanged. He thought it was likely G told Mr P it would notify the 
DVLA of the change of ownership but it failed to do so. And he thought Close Brothers could 
be held liable for the actions of G. Close Brothers didnt agree with the investigator as it 
didnt think it was liable for the actions of G in this respect.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators opinion. He didnt think it was fair for the investigator to 
say he should have known the car didnt have a number of the features. He said, during the 
test drive, he didnt use the sound system and was focused on the cars performance and 
handling. So he said he didnt know that there wasnt a DAB radio during the test drive. And 
he said he took it as read that all features would be present if they were shown in the 
advertisement. He said the DAB radio was a major part in his decision to acquire the car as 
he said the main stations he listened to were only available on a DAB radio. So he didnt 
think it was fair for the investigator to say he would have still acquired the car had he not 
been given a false statement of facts.
He also didnt think the percentage refund in the monthly payments was fair. He didnt think 
Close Brothers should be allowed to profit from this contract. And he said, at the very least, it 
should refund all the payments hes made since it agreed to allow him to reject the car. 
As neither party agreed with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015  implied a term into the conditional sale agreement that the car 
must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider, Close Brothers is 
responsible for the quality of the car its provided under the agreement.
Further to this, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making G the 
agent of Close Brothers during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Ms F entering 
into the finance agreement, starting from when she first approached G to enquire about the 
car. But essentially, this means Close Brothers is responsible for the acts or omissions of G 
in relation to arranging the finance to Ms F  including any statements made about the car.
Where the car is found to be of unsatisfactory quality or there was a false statement of fact 
the ultimate remedy is to allow Mr P to reject the car and hand it back. However, Close 
Brothers has already agreed to allow Mr P to reject the car. So I dont need to make a finding 
as to whether there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract. The issue for me to 
decide is whether I think Close Brothers has made a fair offer of compensation before Mr P referred his complaint to this service. I dont think it did and Ill now explain why.
Should Close Brothers refund Mr Ps monthly payments?
Mr P says Close Brothers were required to refund all payments hes made on the finance  
particularly highlighting the CRA and the Fraud Act 2006. I should first set out that I dont 
think theres anything to show there wasnt just a simple mistake in putting incorrect 
information on the online advert  i.e. I dont think G was deliberately intending to mislead 
Mr P. So I dont think Mr P was fraudulently induced into acquiring the car by G.
Mr P says the CRA says hes entitled to a full refund of all the payments hes made. While I 
agree it says he may be entitled to a refund of the purchase price following rejection, it also 
sets out Close Brothers can make a deduction from the refund to reflect the usage Mr P has 
had with the car. The issues Mr P has had with the car havent stopped him from being able 
to use the car and hes had full usage of it throughout. Generally speaking, where a 
consumer is able to fully use the car without impairment, wed consider the monthly 
payments Mr P makes to be a fair deduction for the cars usage. But it also needs to be 
remembered that this wasnt an inexpensive car  the cash price was around £21,000. 
Im conscious Mr P hasnt been able to use the aircon in the car. And I think this is likely to 
have impacted his enjoyment of the car. So I dont think he should have to pay the full 
monthly payments. However, Im also conscious that this issue is only likely to have 
impacted him during hot periods  i.e. not all year round. Ive also thought about the impact 
not have a DAB radio has had on Mr P in addition to the loss of other features. But I dont 
think these have had a significant impact on Mr Ps usage of the car. 
Taking all this into account I think a 10% reduction of the monthly payments is a fair 
reflection of the loss of enjoyment Mr P has had with the car. 
Mr P thinks Close Brothers should refund all the payments hes made since it agreed to 
allow him to reject the car. But he has continued to use the car since then, so I think its fair 
that he continues to have to pay for the time he used it. And it was his choice to not hand the 
car back at that time. So, in line with the above, I think Close Brothers should also refund 
10% of each monthly payment made since it agreed to allow Mr P to reject the car.
Should Close Brothers refund the fines Mr P has incurred?
I naturally sympathise that Mr P has incurred these fines due to the actions of G and due to 
no fault of his own. But I need to think whether Close Brothers is liable for the actions of G in 
this respect. I dont think it is. Mr P says he part-exchanged his old car to put money towards 
the cost of acquiring the car Close Brothers supplied him. However, while I accept it was part 
of the process, I dont think this formed part of the contract with Close Brothers. 
The finance agreement sets out how Mr P financed the acquisition of the car. This sets out 
that Mr P paid a cash deposit of £6,000 and the £15,000 balance through the conditional 
sale agreement. I think its also pertinent to note the conditional sale agreement specifically 
says trade in £0. So I dont think the part exchange actually formed part of the finance 
agreement. 
It seems to me that Mr P entered into a separate contract with G where it in effect bought the 
car off Mr P for cash. Mr P then used the cash received from G as a part-payment towards 
the finance agreement with Close Brothers. Given this, I dont think I can reasonably hold 
Close Brothers responsible for anything G did wrong in respect to the part-exchange 
arrangement. So it follows that I dont think Close Brothers needs to refund the fines incurred 
on his old car.I appreciate Mr P says he feels misled into acquiring the car and the assurances G gave that 
it would process all the paperwork on the part-exchange. And I acknowledge G has gone 
into liquidation so Mr P may not have recourse against G any longer. But, for the reasons I 
set out above, I cant hold Close Brothers responsible for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Close Brothers Limited to do the following:
1. Allow Mr P to reject the car and arrange to collect it at no cost to him;
2. Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay  and arrange for details to be 
removed from Mr Ps credit file;
3. Refund the deposit of £6,000. It should add 8% simple interest per year on this from 
when he entered into the finance agreement until he gets it back*; and
4. Refund 10% of each monthly payment hes made on the finance agreement. It should 
add 8% simple interest per year on this from when he paid each payment until he gets 
them back*.
*If Close Brothers thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman