DRN-3355317
Complaint
Mr M has complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) irresponsibly lent to him. 
Background
Avant Credit provided Mr M with a loan for £2,000.00 in February 2015. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of around £170. One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr 
Ms complaint and she thought Avant Credit shouldnt have provided Mr M with this loan. So 
she thought that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Avant Credit didnt agree so the case 
was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mr M could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. The 
information Avant Credit has provided suggested that Avant Credit carried out a credit 
check. The results of which clearly demonstrated that Mr M had recently defaulted on a 
payday loan and was close to his limit on his credit card. The search also showed Mr M had 
taken at lest 20 payday loans in the two years leading up to this application too. 
So Im persuaded by what Mr M has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And while its possible he could have been taking these loans through choice 
rather than because he was struggling, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Avant 
Credit, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Ms version of events. 
As this is the case, I think Mr Ms existing financial position meant that he was unlikely to be 
able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. And as 
reasonable and proportionate checks should have extended into finding out about Mr Ms 
income and expenditure, Im satisfied that they would more like than not have shown Avant 
Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr M. As Avant Credit provided Mr M with 
this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr M has paid and is being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan he 
shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Avant Credit should put things right.
Fair compensation what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Mr M by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr M made, whether to Avant Credit or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £2,000.00 originally lent. If 
Mr M has already repaid more than £2,000.00 then Avant Credit should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr M;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr M to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Avant Credit recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Ms 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Id also remind Avant Credit of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if 
it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should it buy the debt back from any third-
party debt purchaser and one remains, after all adjustments have been made to the account 
and its the case that Mr M is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman