DRN-4524012
The complaint
Mr N complains that he wanted The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to replace his commercial 
loan with a Buy To Let (BTL) mortgage. He said RBS wouldnt, but it delayed in telling him 
that, and delayed the permission he needed to borrow elsewhere, so his costs increased.
What happened
Mr N said he had an existing commercial loan with RBS, which was secured on the freehold 
of a single building which is divided into flats. Mr N lets out these flats, and he wanted to take 
out some further lending to pay for refurbishments. At the same time, he wanted to change 
his existing commercial loan to a BTL mortgage.
Mr N said he first approached RBS about this in September 2022, but it wouldnt offer him
the BTL mortgage that he wanted. It just kept sending him more paperwork for a commercial
loan, which he didnt want.
Mr N also said he then needed to get RBS permission to change the ownership structure of
the flats, so he could mortgage one of them. And he said RBS caused delays with that too.
Mr N said because of RBS delays, staff absence and unavailability, it took two and a half
months to get to the point he should have been at, at the start of September.
Mr N said hed needed to take out a mortgage elsewhere, and the delays RBS caused
meant he wasnt able to do that before interest rates rose. He said his costs increased
significantly, as a result. He was finally able to get lending elsewhere, and Mr N then repaid
all his borrowing with RBS.
Mr N wanted RBS to cover his additional borrowing costs, and to pay compensation for all
the stress that this had caused him.
RBS said it understood there had been issues with the communication with Mr Ns first RBS
contact. Unfortunately that person had to leave their role due to ill health. RBS said it was
sorry about that, and it paid Mr N £100 to apologise.
Aside from that, RBS didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it responded to Mr Ns
request for permission to create a new lease out of the existing secured property within its
stated timescales, and it felt that Mr Ns new RBS contact had been quick, knowledgeable,
and consistent in responding to Mr N and moving his request forward.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said RBS had explained
why the first contact Mr N had there wasnt able to respond fully to his requests. She thought
RBSs offer of £100 for that was fair. She felt the person who then took on responsibility for
dealing with Mr N and progressing his loan request was efficient in requesting information
from Mr N and reactive when responding to his communications. So she didnt think RBS
had to do any more.
Mr N didnt agree. He said the payment RBS made, of £100, was just for the issues hed
experienced trying to contact his first RBS contact, who was unfortunately unwell. That
payment didnt take account of how he was then treated by RBS.
Mr N said hed only wanted a BTL mortgage, but was never offered that by RBS. Instead
RBS asked him for lots of information on his finances and his properties, for a loan product
he didnt want. Mr N said if RBS couldnt offer him the BTL mortgage he wanted, it should
just have said this at the outset.
Mr N said no one looked at an email hed sent, for two weeks, while his main contact at RBS
was on holiday, and he disputed that anyone from RBS had tried to call him during this time.
Mr N said the stress of all of this had caused a previously dormant health condition to flare
up. He still thought RBS should pay compensation.
Our investigator then asked both sides for further information, and she issued a second
view. She set out a timeline of events, and said she thought RBS should pay Mr N an
additional £100, because although she did think RBS had tried to call Mr N while his main
contact was on annual leave, it didnt look as if this person had left a voicemail, or tried to
call back, which was poor service.
But our investigator said, although Mr Ns first RBS contact was initially positive about
obtaining a BTL mortgage for him, he was also clear that further information would be
needed. We knew there were some delays at this point, due to the unexpected illness and
absence of this person. But then Mr N was assigned a new main contact at RBS. Our
investigator thought this person responded reasonably promptly to Mr Ns enquiry about a
BTL mortgage, and had been very clear about the reasons why Mr N wouldnt qualify for that
sort of lending from RBS.
Our investigator also noted that the consent to lease agreement was issued by RBS on 23
November 2022. She didnt think RBS had to pay Mr N for any further financial loss.
RBS said it would pay the additional £100 our investigator suggested. But Mr N didnt want
to accept it. He said whether or not a voicemail had been left for him wasnt the main issue.
Mr N said the issues he wanted us to look at, were that he was initially offered a BTL
mortgage by his first RBS contact (who then became unwell) but after that, he was just sent
down the route of a commercial loan. He repeated that if RBS had said at the outset it
couldnt give him a BTL mortgage, he would have gone elsewhere right away, instead of
months later. He said RBS didnt tell him this until the end of October. He said he could have
secured a much more favourable interest rate for a BTL mortgage at the start of September
2022 than he ended up getting at the end of November 2022.
Mr N also said he wasnt able to go ahead with other lending until the consent to lease was
issued by RBS. Although his solicitor said RBS ought to be able to do this very quickly, RBS
dragged this out. He still wanted RBS to pay his additional lending costs (although it wasnt
clear what these were) and compensation for the stress.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision. And I 
then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold it in part. This is what I said then: 
When this case came to me, I asked both sides for further information. Having received 
some additional information in response to those requests, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator, but for different reasons.Ill summarise my views first, then set out the reasons why Ive reached those 
provisional conclusions.
I think there was a short, but avoidable, initial delay in telling Mr N that he couldnt obtain 
BTL mortgage lending from RBS. I dont think that delay was as lengthy as Mr N said. 
And I think RBS then processed Mr Ns solicitors consent to let request reasonably 
promptly.
Finally, I havent been able to see that the delay RBS initially caused, between 
September and early October, when it hadnt made clear that Mr N wouldnt qualify for 
BTL lending, actually affected Mr Ns eventual remortgage.
Ill now explain why I reached those conclusions.
Mr N sent us the emails he initially sent to his RBS contact, in September 2022. Those 
start with an email on 13 September, saying I am thinking of getting a Buy To Let 
mortgage to consolidate my loans. So I think Mr N set out at the start, what sort of 
lending he wanted.
RBS has been clear that Mr N wasnt able to take a BTL mortgage with it, as Mr Ns 
income sources dont meet RBS requirements for BTL mortgage lending. Thats not 
unreasonable or unfair. But it does mean that Mr Ns request for a BTL mortgage could 
have been turned down quite quickly by RBS.
Unfortunately, thats not what initially happened. On 14 September, after Mr N chased, 
his first RBS contact said he would need more information but .. it does sound like 
something we can help with. Mr N then chased responses from his first RBS contact, 
and continued to receive a generally positive response.
Mr Ns initial RBS contact asked some specific questions on 23 September, indicating 
hed spoken to a lending specialist in RBS. On 23 September, Mr N said he was in the 
process of creating a new lease, and it was at this point that Mr N clarified how the 
mortgage lending he wanted would be funded. Mr N also expressed frustration that his 
RBS contact was taking so long to respond to him.
We know that Mr N wasnt receiving prompt responses, particularly after this, because 
his first RBS contact had unfortunately begun a period of long-term illness. Its 
unfortunate that this did mean there was a short delay before a new main contact at 
RBS was identified for Mr N. RBS has paid Mr N £100 to say sorry for this.
I think at this point, on 23 September, it should have been clear to RBS that it couldnt 
offer Mr N the lending it wanted. Unfortunately, Mr N didnt get a reply to his email of 23
September, due to the aforementioned staff illness. I do think that if Mr Ns RBS contact
hadnt been unwell, Mr N would have been told that RBS couldnt give him the lending 
he wanted, by about 23 September.
Mr N was then passed to a different RBS contact, then quickly on again to someone 
who could discuss with him the sort of lending RBS was able to offer him, who then 
became his new main contact at RBS. And on 4 October, Mr N discussed possible 
lending with her. 
On 6 October, Mr N approached a different RBS contact, and asked again about a BTL
mortgage. He wanted to know why he wasnt being offered this by his main contact. 
That email was passed to his main contact, and the position previously discussed on 4 October was then confirmed in writing in an email of 10 October. So I think Mr N was 
told verbally on 4 October that RBS wouldnt offer BTL mortgage lending to someone 
with Mr Ns sort of income, and had written confirmation of this from 10 October.
Arguably, Mr N should have been told this by around 23 September, so he potentially 
lost around two weeks at this point.
However, I havent been able to see that this affected Mr Ns remortgage elsewhere. 
The email Mr N sent on 23 September showed Mr N was already aware that he would 
need to create a new lease in order to secure BTL lending. But his solicitor only asked 
RBS to start that process on 5 October. So I cant see that RBS brief delay in telling him 
it couldnt give him the sort of lending he wanted, delayed Mr Ns remortgage elsewhere.
Ive looked closely at what happened after Mr N was told he couldnt get a BTL 
mortgage with RBS. It took from 5 October until 23 November for Mr N to receive 
consent to lease from RBS. However, I havent been able to see that the sole, or even 
main, reason why this wasnt done more quickly, was because of RBS. I also havent 
been able to see that Mr Ns remortgage costs increased as a result.
When he was told in writing that RBS couldnt offer him a BTL mortgage, Mr N said he 
would have a look at the information about the commercial loan RBS could offer him, 
although a BTL mortgage was what he really wanted. Mr N then complained he was still 
being sent documentation and requests for information linked to a commercial loan, 
which he didnt want. But I havent been able to see that Mr N had clearly told RBS that 
he didnt want to explore a commercial loan any further. So I dont think it was a mistake 
for RBS to continue his application for him.
Mr N hasnt told us when he first approached other lenders about securing a BTL 
mortgage, but it seems likely that he did this in parallel with his discussions with RBS, 
because he told RBS he had a lender waiting since 13 October for its agreement to the 
lease documentation. Mr N later told us he lost this option because of RBS delay in 
processing his consent to lease.
At the end of October, Mr N said he just wanted RBS to give consent to form a lease on 
one flat, retaining its charge on another flat which would remain covered by the freehold. 
But Ive seen the request Mr Ns solicitor originally made on 5 October, and it says 
something rather different. So I do think its reasonable for RBS to say the first request 
by Mr Ns solicitor was a request for a more complex change than was necessary to 
achieve what Mr N wanted. I dont think it was a mistake for RBS to suggest an 
alternative, simpler proposal rather than action the solicitors request right away.
RBS said it would still need the same sort of documents that it had asked Mr N to supply 
for his loan application, in order to agree the change to its security.
Mr N said he sent in documents in while his main RBS contact was away on holiday. So 
he thought work should have started on the consent to lease then, or he should have 
been told if those documents couldnt be accessed.
I do think that there was a short hiatus while Mr Ns main contact at RBS was away. 
Whilst work was being done to see if RBS could offer Mr N a commercial loan during 
this time, there doesnt appear to have been a great deal of progress on his consent to 
lease request then. I think thats partly because Mr N hadnt clearly told RBS he didnt 
want to pursue a commercial loan, and also partly because RBS appears to have been 
suggesting a simpler leasehold option to Mr Ns solicitor, rather than pursuing the option 
Mr Ns solicitor first proposed. (I note there was then a further, similar delay before the consent to lease was issued, of around two weeks, which appears to have been while 
RBS was waiting for a response from Mr Ns solicitor.)
RBS consent to lease was then given on 23 November 2022. I think this could have
happened perhaps a week earlier, if Mr Ns case had been progressed more thoroughly
while his main contact was on leave. However, I dont think the time RBS took overall to 
achieve this was unreasonable.
Mr N said he then lost his choice of alternative lender because of delays in receiving the
consent to lease. In an email dated 22 November, Mr N said that hed had a lender 
waiting since 13 October for the lease, and that still hadnt been done. But this consent 
to lease was issued by RBS the following day. So its not clear why this lending didnt go 
ahead. On the evidence Ive seen to date, I havent been able to link the delay in Mr N 
securing BTL mortgage lending to the timing of RBS consent to lease.
If Mr N could show our service that the lending he identified on 13 October didnt go 
ahead because RBS consent to lease took too long to be issued, then I would need to 
bear in mind that RBS doesnt seem to me to have been the only, or indeed even the 
main, source of delays in agreeing that. I dont currently have full documentation on this, 
but on what Ive seen to date I think its likely that this consent to lease could have been 
issued around a month sooner, if the following problems had been avoided 
If RBS had been asked for consent to lease on or before 23 September (when 
Mr N recognised the need for this and said it was in hand).
If the request for consent to lease had initially proposed the simpler arrangement 
that I understand was eventually pursued.
If coverage arrangements had avoided any delay while Mr Ns solicitor was on 
leave during the middle of November.
None of those issues would seem to me to be attributable to RBS.
Mr N has since shown us a mortgage illustration, and told us he took up that BTL 
mortgage lending. That illustration is dated 3 February 2023, but I havent been able to 
see why this mortgage took so long to agree, or how this compares to any illustration Mr 
N may have received in October 2022. And, for the reasons set out above, I havent 
been able to see that any possible additional costs of this mortgage would be RBS fault.
To summarise, I think that RBS is responsible for a short initial delay in telling Mr N that 
he couldnt have a BTL mortgage, but I think Mr N was told this by 4 October 2022, and 
had the reasons for this set out in writing by 10 October. Whilst I think Mr Ns consent to 
lease could then have been processed a little quicker, I dont think the main reason this 
took around seven weeks to complete was because of delays caused by RBS. And I 
havent been able to link any higher rate of interest charged on Mr Ns BTL lending now, 
to a delay by RBS in providing that consent.
For the reasons set out above, I think that a total payment of £200, including the 
payment of £100 that I understand RBS has already paid, and a further payment of 
£100 which it has agreed to make, would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. So thats what I currently propose to award.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides have now replied.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS confirmed it had nothing further to add.
Mr N said hed read my provisional decision, and he could see that delays caused as a result 
of RBS had been highlighted. He said at that particular time the market was in freefall, so 
every day was critical. Mr N said we could see there were at least six weeks that had been 
highlighted in the decision. So he said he was at a loss as to my decision, he couldnt see 
why this time or his extra solicitors costs hadnt been taken into consideration. 
I dont think thats quite what my provisional decision set out. I dont think RBS did cause six 
weeks of delays in agreeing Mr Ns consent to lease. I noted there was an initial delay in 
telling him RBS wouldnt be able to offer him a BTL mortgage. But I understand that Mr Ns 
solicitor hadnt yet asked RBS to agree his consent to lease at that point, so I said I couldnt 
see that this caused a delay to Mr Ns eventual remortgage. And I noted that overall, I felt 
RBS did deal with Mr Ns solicitors request in reasonable time. I also highlighted a number 
of delays with that request which I said were not attributable to RBS.
I understand that Mr N has reached a very different conclusion to me, on who is responsible 
for the delays in his remortgage. But I set out in my provisional decision the points on which 
Mr N could offer further evidence or argument, if he wished to do so. Neither side has 
offered any further evidence or argument. And Im sorry to have to tell Mr N that I havent 
changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc must pay Mr N £100 in 
compensation, in addition to the £100 it has already paid him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman