DRN-2412041
The complaint
Mrs L complained that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) unfairly refused to pay her cancellation 
claim under her travel policy.
What happened
Mrs L bought her single trip travel policy on 4 September 2019 for a trip from 23 December 
2019 to 11 January 2020 which she booked on 17 September 2019. No one else was going 
on this trip with her and she was the only one insured on the policy.
Very sadly, her daughter needed to be referred to CAMHS for her anxiety issues in 
November 2019 and very understandably, Mrs L decided she had no option but to cancel 
her trip.
She made a claim to URV who said that as her daughter had started to suffer this anxiety 
illness in March 2019, her daughters medical condition pre-dated the start of her policy and 
therefore was excluded. This meant it couldnt pay her cancellation claim.
Mrs L didnt agree and complained. URV wouldnt change its stance so she brought her 
complaint to us. The investigator didnt think URV had done anything wrong. Mrs L didnt 
agree so her complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
URVs policy in common with most other travel policies doesnt wish to cover claims which 
arise from pre-existing medical conditions as the investigator explained in his view. The 
policy says the following as regards the definition of pre-existing medical condition:
Any serious or recurring medical condition which has been previously diagnosed or 
been investigated or treated in any way, at any time prior to travel, even if this 
condition is currently considered to be stable and under control.
In Mrs Ls case, given her cancellation was caused by her daughters illness, cancellation 
cover is available only if: 
the cancellation is not due to an existing medical condition of a non-travelling 
close relative, the person you are intending to stay with, a business associate or 
travelling companion.
So URV asked for her daughters GP to explain the situation by completing a form. The GP 
clearly identified that her daughters anxiety illness started in March 2019 and further 
confirmed that this reoccurred in October 2019 and became worse in November 2019 
necessitating the CAMHS referral. I checked her daughters medical notes and they 
correspond with what the GP said also.
My role in deciding this complaint is to look to see if URV did anything wrong in applying its 
terms and conditions to the evidence it obtained. Here its policy is clear that it wont cover 
cancellation if its caused by a close relatives pre-existing medical condition. I consider the 
GPs evidence to be very clear that the distressing medical condition Mrs Ls daughter sadly 
developed, started well before Mrs L bought her policy and booked her trip. The GP clearly 
links the instances of her anxiety together which sadly became more acute as the months 
went on. And the GP is clear the issue started in March 2019.
So, there is nothing to show me that URV did anything wrong. URV are fully entitled to rely 
on what the GP says, and the GP for Mrs Ls daughter has shown without any doubt that her 
daughters medical condition which ultimately caused Mrs L to have to cancel her policy 
began in March 2019, which predated Mrs L booking her trip and buying her policy. There is 
no other evidence to the contrary. So, I dont consider that URV did anything wrong.
My final decision
I do understand and appreciate Mrs L will be disappointed with my decision, but for these 
reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman