DRN-1542811
The complaint
Mr B says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr B bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr B initially told us he could not recall how the PPI was sold. Barclays showed us a copy of 
the original application form which could have been completed in a branch or by post. 
Barclays and our adjudicator assumed it was completed in a branch as this meant Barclays 
would have to make sure it was right for Mr B. Mr B has since clarified that he completed the 
form at home then took it into a branch where he asked about how to complete the PPI 
section of the form.
Ive looked at the application form. In the section titled Payment Protection Plan Mr B has 
ticked a box to confirm he wanted to take the PPI, a separate box to decline the PPI has 
been left blank. I cant see anything on the form to suggest that the PPI had to be accepted 
in order for the application to be successful. So, I think its more likely Mr B was aware he 
had a choice and chose to take out PPI.
I do understand that Mr B recalls being told to take the PPI in order to have the application 
accepted. But I do have to take into account that this sale took place 25 years ago and 
memories do fade over time.
Taking everything into account, I think Barclays made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take 
out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this, given how long ago it was.
In this decision Ive assumed Barclays did give Mr B advice. As such it had a responsibility to 
ensure the PPI was right for him. I think it was right for him for the following reasons:
Mr B was eligible for the policy. And he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. For example, he didnt have any medical conditions that 
wouldnt be covered. So, Mr B would have been able to make a claim if hed have needed to.Mr B has said his employer would have paid him for between three to six months if he fell ill 
or had an accident. But the PPI policy could have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months 
per claim. So, I still think the policy could have been useful to Mr B especially if he became 
unwell for a lengthy period of time.
The PPI would also have paid the monthly benefit if Mr B had lost his job.
Mr B had some savings, but the PPI would mean he didnt have to use his savings to pay his 
credit card repayments if he couldnt work. Instead he could use his savings for other living 
costs.
Mr B has told us he could have relied on family to help if he couldnt work. But this kind of 
help isnt guaranteed. And his family may not have been in a position to give help when it 
was most needed.
It is possible Barclays didnt give Mr B all the information it should have. But thats not 
enough to uphold this complaint. I need to decide whether or not Mr B would have changed 
his mind about buying the policy if he had been given better or clearer information. I cant 
say he would have done. The policy was right for him, it looks like he was interested in this 
type of cover and Ive not seen anything to make me think it was unaffordable to him.
In summary, I think Mr B was likely given a fair choice about whether to buy the PPI or not. I 
think the policy was right for him and even if Barclays had given him all the clear information 
it should have, hed still have bought it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman