DRN-4034819
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that they were mis-sold a packaged bank account by Lloyds 
Bank PLC (Lloyds). Mr and Mrs P have said that they were not given a fair choice in taking 
out the account and the benefits that it came with were not suitable for them.
  Fee-free Classic account taken out in July 2000
  Upgraded to a fee-paying Gold account sometime prior in 15 October 2001
 Account closed in December 2003
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint already, and they did not think that the 
Gold account was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs P did not agree with this and requested a final 
decision.
This decision is only considering whether the Gold account (account number ending 768) 
was mis-sold, it will not be looking at any other accounts held separately under different 
account numbers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with I am not upholding this 
complaint. I will explain why. 
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs P were given a clear choice in taking the 
Gold account. At this point, it may help for me to explain that where matters are in dispute  
such as here - I have to make my decision based on what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened, based on the available evidence. 
In relation to the Gold account, I can see that Mr and Mrs P had held a free account with 
Lloyds prior to this upgrade. So I think, at the very least, they would have been aware that 
free accounts were available. Mr and Mrs P say that they were not given a fair choice in 
taking out the account. I should highlight that as an independent and impartial service I cant 
solely take either partys testimony as sole proof of what happened. I need to take this into 
consideration alongside all the other evidence that is available.
With this in mind, I can see that Mr and Mrs P did not pay a fee for this account until three 
months before the account was closed. Because of the timescales involved it is not certain 
why this was the cause. That said though, my understanding of the way Lloyds accounts 
operated is that the fee was waived due to fee waiver feature that was available at this time. 
To explain, if a certain balance was maintained the account fee was not payable, so 
essentially Mr and Mrs P were getting the account for free and this was likely why they 
agreed to the account. This is supported by the fact that once the fee did get debited (three 
times in total, for a total amount of fees paid of £24) the account was closed shortly after. So, 
I think overall, this account was taken out, not because Mr and Mrs P were presented with 
no choice, but because they could potentially have this account and the benefits it came with 
for free.
Overall, I am satisfied that a personal recommendation was made when this account was 
sold. So Lloyds had to ensure that this recommendation was appropriate, given Mr and Mrs 
Ps circumstances at the time. The major benefits at the time the Gold account was taken 
out were worldwide travel insurance, discounts on the interest rate available on personal 
loans and a £100 interest free overdraft with preferential rates on balances above this 
amount. From what I can see Mr and Mrs P did travel worldwide. So I dont think that 
recommending they take out this account was unreasonable, especially given the fee 
situation mentioned above.
I note Mr and Mrs Ps comments that they had their own travel insurance, but this does not 
mean that the recommendation was incorrect as they could not have cancelled their existing 
cover if they wished to do so.
Mr and Mrs P have said that they had pre-existing medical conditions so they would not 
have been covered by the travel insurance. Although I note that they indicated on the 
packaged bank account questionnaire that this was not the case. But even were it the case it 
was possible that the conditions would have been covered provided they were declared prior 
to travel, so this does not mean in itself that the account was inappropriate. 
Mr and Mrs P may not have been told everything about all of the benefits that the Gold 
account came with. But I cant see anything specific that they might not have been told 
about, that I think wouldve changed their decision to take out the account. So in other 
words, I think its likely they still wouldve agreed to the account, had they been given even 
more information about it during the sale. Especially as it looks as if it was originally intended 
that Mr and Mrs P would potentially avoid the monthly account fee.
Therefore, having taken everything into account, I dont think that the Gold account was mis-
sold. I can understand that this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs P and I can see that with 
hindsight, Mr and Mrs P may not have used the benefits of the account. But that in itself 
does not mean that Lloyds was wrong to have sold the account when it did. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman