DRN-2648395
The complaint
Mr G complains Nationwide Building Society wont send a one-time passcode to his landline 
so he can authenticate himself and is instead saying he must use a mobile or email.
What happened
Mr G has a debit card and a credit card both of which are issued by Nationwide.
In June 2019 Mr G complained to Nationwide about the changes it planned to make to the 
way its customers were going to have to authenticate when using, for example, online 
banking. Nationwide had said it was going to make changes in order to implement new 
strong customer authentication measures. Mr G said that he wanted Nationwide, amongst 
other things, to send the one-time passcodes hed need to his landline.
Nationwide investigated Mr Gs complaint but didnt uphold it. Nationwide said that strong 
customer authentication was part of a new industry wide European regulation being 
introduced to further improve the security of payments made online. Nationwide said that it 
had decided to offer its members a choice of options to authenticate themselves including 
through its mobile banking app, one-time passcodes sent to mobiles and / or its card reader. 
Nationwide said that it didnt offer one-time passcodes to landlines as an option. Mr G was 
unhappy with Nationwides response and so complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint but didnt uphold it. They said that they 
didnt think it was unfair or unreasonable in Mr Gs complaint for Nationwide not to offer him 
the option of a landline as the main reason why Mr G wanted an alternative was so he could 
authenticate payments when he was abroad. Our investigator didnt think the card reader 
option was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances. In addition, Mr G had told us that he 
didnt like to use online banking or the internet and preferred to go into branch to do his 
banking. Mr G disagreed with our investigation and asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. So Ive looked into his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has told us that he has a smartphone, but he doesnt do internet banking and he 
doesnt want to. So he doesnt keep a SIM card in his smartphone, and instead he only uses 
it when he needs, for example, information and has access to WiFi. Hes told us that he 
doesnt intend to use any banking apps on his smartphone either.
Mr G also told us that hed have to have his mobile on his person in order to be able to use 
any of his accounts when away from home which wasnt something he wanted to do. He 
also told us he was unhappy that Nationwide was making his account useless to him without 
a mobile phone when he was at home and in the UK. He told us that Nationwide was making 
his landline obsolete.
Nationwide has told us that following these new regulations it will be using strong customer 
authentication when its customers are:
(a) making online payments;
(b) logging into online banking and its mobile banking app;
(c) activating personal security credentials; and
(d) using other remote authentication channels.
Nationwide has told us that if one of its customers doesnt have a mobile and doesnt want to 
receive OTPs by email then they have to call to complete these processes to complete the 
journey as they normally do now.
What is strong customer authentication?
Nationwide is right that new regulations came into effect in September 2019  specifically 
the part of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) that relates to authentication. 
Nationwide is also right that the new regulations that came into effect affected the whole 
banking sector. The regulations required payment service providers (PSPs) to apply strong 
customer authentication in certain circumstances. Those circumstances are set out in in 
Article 100 of the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a payment 
service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of payment 
fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and has now given the e-commerce industry, following a recent and further 
extension, until March 2022 to implement strong customer authentication for online 
payments. The e-commerce industry includes card issuers, payment firms and online 
retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms bringing in strong customer 
authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as the revised Payment Services Directive  define strong customer 
authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that
 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, and 
designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, with the 
elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors. The way Nationwide has gone about those checks is at the heart of this 
complaint.
What has the Financial Conduct Authority said about strong customer authentication 
and its expectations?
The FCA has published several papers about strong customer authentication and its 
expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a paper published in June 2019  
Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  the FCA described its 
approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related rules in its Handbook. 
The FCA said the paper provides guidance for a practical understanding of the 
requirements, our regulatory approach and how businesses will experience regulatory 
supervision. The FCA added that its guidance is intended to illustrate ways (but not the 
only ways) in which a person can comply with the relevant regulations and rules.
In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication solutions on 
different groups of customers, in particular those with protected characteristics, as part of the 
design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a PSP to provide different methods of 
authentication, to comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line 
with regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas without 
mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate 
customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide 
viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has talked, for 
example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication 
on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or 
located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different 
authentication methods for your customers.
Has Nationwide done enough for Mr G?
As Ive already mentioned, Mr G has told us that he has a smartphone, but he doesnt do 
internet banking and he doesnt want to. So he doesnt keep a SIM card in his smartphone, 
and instead he only uses it when he needs, for example, information and has access to 
WiFi. Hes told us that he doesnt intend to use any banking apps on his smartphone either. 
If Nationwide only offered authentication methods that relied on mobile phones, Id be able to 
see why Mr G was unhappy. I might also agree with him that Nationwide hadnt done 
enough, although in this case Mr G does actually own a mobile phone and is able to use it. 
But I can see that Nationwide offers its customers several ways to authenticate that dont rely on a mobile phone, including authenticating using a card reader. I accept that 
Nationwide doesnt send one-time passcodes to landlines  which is what Mr G has said he 
wants them to do  but a one-time passcode sent to a landline wouldnt solve the problem 
Mr G spent a lot of his time complaining about, namely difficulties he was having making 
payments when abroad. Nationwides card reader, on the other hand, would solve that 
problem. In other words, the option Nationwide has offered is, in my opinion, a viable 
alternative for Mr G in the circumstances he outlined whereas a one-time passcode to a 
landline wouldnt be. Mr G isnt someone who, by his own admission, likes to use internet 
banking and prefers to go into branch too. Having taken all the factors Ive just mentioned 
into account, I agree with our investigator that Nationwide hasnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this particular case. So Im not going to uphold Mr Gs complaint as I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable in this particular case to require Nationwide to offer Mr G 
another alternative way of authenticating, such as sending one-time passcodes to Mr Gs 
landline.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman