DRN-3812197
The complaint
The complaint
Mr P complains through his representative that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as
Likely Loans irresponsibly lent him money on high cost loans that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Likely Loans provided Mr P with the following loans:
Date of loan Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentDate repaid
Loan 1 13/03/2018 £900 18 months £79.97 19/10/2018
Loan 2 22/10/2018 £500 12 months £57.98 16/07/2019
Loan 3 15/07/2019 £910.79 18 months £80.92 24/02/2020
Loan 4 22/02/2020 £1,346.66 18 months £119.65 03/09/2020
Loan 5 02/09/2020 £2,244.44 24 months £170.49 30/08/2022
Mr P complained through his representative that Likely Loans failed to carry out
proportionate checks at the time of Mr P applying for each loan, and as a result the loans
were unaffordable.
Likely Loans initially rejected the complaints about all but the third loan, which it agreed had
been provided irresponsibly. It said it carried out the necessary checks on Mr Ps eligibility
for the loans. These included obtaining a credit report, verifying Mr Ps income and
calculating his living expenses according to those declared on his application (which were
higher than if it had used Office for National Statistics data) After further correspondence
with this service, it also upheld the complaints about loans 4 and 5.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I didnt think loans 1 and 2, in addition to loans 
3-5 were responsibly lent.
Neither party responded to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below in italics:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr P would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Likely Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ps ability to make the repayments under the agreements. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Likely Loans had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr P undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr P. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
loan 1
Likely Loans hasnt provided a copy of the credit report it obtained on the loans, though it
has set out its data extracted from those reports. From that data I can see that Mr P had two
credit cards, one with an outstanding balance of £499 and the other £998. I assume that
they were both right on their limit. Ive also noted that Mr P had £11,254 in defaulted debt,
the most recent default being seven months previously. He didnt appear to have made any
provision for paying that debt.Likely Loans allowed for a payment of 3% of the defaulted debts and credit cards in its
calculation of his disposable income. Based on his monthly income of £2,115, and Mr Ps
self-declared living expenses of £1,300 Likely Loans calculated that he would have a
monthly disposable income of over £360.
But I dont think that is realistic. Bearing in mind the high level of defaulted debt, I think, to
realistically pay this off, a monthly payment of 5% of the balance should be allowed for. The
same goes for the credit cards. Using these figures gives a monthly liability of £562.70 for
the defaulted debts and £75 for the credit cards. And after taking into account living
expenses this produces disposable income figure of £97. And Mr Ps credit commitments as
a proportion of his income would have been about 34%.
I think that Likely Loans carried out proportionate checks. But whilst the amount being
loaned was relatively modest, I think that the disposable income figure and the level of credit
commitments made this loan unaffordable.
loan 2
Ive noted that Mr P repaid loan 1 shortly before taking out this loan  but I dont know how
he obtained the funds to do that. This loan was applied for seven months after loan 1.
By the time he applied for this loan Mr P hadnt paid off any part of the debts on the two
credit cards he had previously had, and when he applied to Likely Loans, he now had four
credit cards with balances respectively of £498, £1,384, £1,263, and £397. His defaulted
debt balance remained exactly as it had been seven months previously which meant he had
been unable to pay off any of that debt.
Nevertheless Likely Loans had to take into account that Mr Ps debts needed repaying, and
again I think a 3% monthly figure for this was unrealistic. Applying the same 5% figure to his
defaulted debts and allowing £177 a month for the credit card repayments, £1,300 for living
expenses and the cost of the loan produces a monthly disposable income of around £27.
And again while the loan was relatively modest, I dont think this loan was affordable.
loans 3,4 and 5
I see that Likely Loans has agreed that these loans were irresponsibly lent. I think that was
the right approach. I will add the necessary repayments for these loans in my directions
below.
As neither party has made any comments on my provisional findings, those findings are now 
final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Mr P has had the capital payment in respect of the loans, so its fair that he should 
repay this. So far as the loans are concerned, I think Likely Loans should refund all 
interest and charges as follows: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loans. 
Treat any payments made by Mr P as payments towards the capital amount. 
If Mr P has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to him with 8% 
simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement. But if theres still an outstanding balance, Likely Loans should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mr P..
Remove any adverse information about the loans from Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Likely Loans to deduct tax from this interest. It should 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans  
to provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman