DRN-2020010
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Creation Financial Services Limited (Creation) gave her incorrect 
information about a refund to her credit card.
What happened
Mrs M has a credit card with Creation. In July 2019 she expected to see a large refund 
applied to her account. The refund was for purchases made in January and May 2019. 
Mrs M says she kept checking her account using her mobile app and there wasnt any sign 
of the transaction being refunded.
Mrs M contacted Creation and it first told her the refund hadnt been applied. This led to 
Mrs M chasing the business that was supposed to be giving her a refund. She also says she 
spent money on her card as believed she hadnt had the refund yet. When Mrs M was told 
the refund had been processed she contacted Creation again. It then explained that it had 
been applied  but that it showed on her statement as being refunded on the date it was 
purchased. 
When Mrs M complained to Creation it said it didnt make a mistake in the way it displayed 
the balance of Mrs Ms account. But it did later acknowledge that it gave Mrs M incorrect 
information about how the refund was shown and when it was applied. So, it gave Mrs M 
£50 compensation for this.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She explained that the paper statements Mrs M 
gave us show the refunds and there was no evidence to show Creation had made a mistake 
here. She did understand that the incorrect information caused Mrs M frustration and 
confusion but felt the £50 compensation Creation offered was fair and reasonable.
Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. She said that she 
used the app to monitor her account and the refunds didnt appear anywhere during those 
months. She said it was this that led her to making numerous phone calls to Creation and to 
the business who gave her the refund. So, she feels a mistake was made with the display of 
the refunds and that this caused her to overspend on her account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the frustration Mrs M experienced when she couldnt see her refunds and 
when she was told incorrect information. My role here is to look at what Creation did wrong, 
and if it has done enough to put things right.
Statements
Mrs M has told us that she uses her app to monitor her account, and that she usually has 
paperless statements. But shes told us she requested a statement to show the refunds. Ive 
seen the paper statement for July 2019. At the top of the statement it shows the credits into 
the account including the payments Mrs M made as well as these refunds. The refunds do 
show different dates next to them but they are included in the credits section of the paper 
statement. So, I think it was clear that the refunds were applied correctly to Mrs Ms account 
and that her paper statement she ordered makes this clear.
Ive not been able to see what the app showed Mrs M in July 2019. Shes shown us an 
example of how refunds look from this year. I can see they appear to be credited on the date 
the refund is showing. But I cant say this wasnt showing in July last year, or that the app 
hasnt changed since then. I think its likely Mrs M couldnt see her refunds on her app at the 
time which is why she contacted Creation about it. But this isnt to say that her available 
balance was incorrect, or that the refunds hadnt been processed. Her paper statement 
clearly shows it had been. So, I dont think Creation has made a mistake. It applied the 
refund when it was processed and showed Mrs M her correct available balance throughout. 
It also had the details on the full statement to show the refund had been made.
Incorrect information
Mrs M tried to find out whether the refunds had been processed by contacting Creation. And 
it told her incorrect information. This led her to spending time contacting the business that 
processed the refund. I can imagine it was very frustrating to have to do this when Creation 
shouldve been able to tell her the refund had been processed. Its also clear that Creation 
didnt tell her where to find the refund using her app.
I do think Creation has made a mistake here, but it was able to explain that the refund had 
been applied in later calls and it apologised for its mistake. I can also see that the July paper 
statement Mrs M received showed the refund. Creation has paid Mrs M £50 for the trouble 
and upset the incorrect information caused and I think this is fair and reasonable. The only 
mistake I can see Creation has made here is during the call it had with Mrs M. And this led to 
frustration and inconvenience for her. I understand Mrs M felt that this led her to overspend 
on her account. But Mrs M chose to use her account for further purchases knowing she 
didnt have a clear answer of whether the refunds had been applied. She was aware of her 
available balance at the time she made those additional transactions, and shed been told by 
the retailer that her refund had been processed. So, whilst I understand she had to query 
this, and Creation caused some confusion, I dont think Creation were responsible for 
Mrs Ms overspend.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. The compensation Creation Financial Services Limited gave 
Mrs M was fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman