DRN-3963382
The complaint
Mr S is complaining about the information provided by Trading 212 UK Ltd (T212).
What happened
When Mr S first brought his complaint to our service he was complaining about two separate 
issues. Hes now accepted that T212 arent responsible for one of those complaint points  
about the performance of an exchange-traded product  so I wont comment on that aspect 
in my decision.
Mr Ss remaining complaint point is about the information T212 provided about the share 
price and corporate actions in relation to shares in a certain company, X. On 31 July 2020, 
T212 was showing X as one of their biggest losers  stocks that had lost a lot of value. This 
was backed up by T212s charts which showed the share price had fallen by around 70%. 
Mr S saw this and thought it might present a good opportunity. He did a bit of research and 
saw that X was about to make a bonus issue of three shares for every one share held. So  
he thought  this was a great opportunity  not only was the share price down, but hed also 
be able to benefit from the bonus issue.
Mr S says he invested in X on the basis of this information. Then, a few days later, when he 
didnt receive the bonus shares he expected, he sold his shareholding, at a loss of £367.
Mr S complained to T212 about the information theyd displayed on their platform about X. In 
response, T212 said that prices are indicative only and the execution price might change 
from that shown on the charts. They said the cut-off date for the bonus issue was 
31 July 2020 and that, to be eligible, clients needed to hold shares before the cut-off date. 
The response also said that theyd decided to partially uphold the complaint and offered a 
goodwill gesture of £367.
However, the final response said that Mr S needed to accept the offer within two weeks, by 
18 December 2020. Mr S replied to T212 and asked them to review the matter again  but 
T212 said they wouldnt take it any further, and that theyd marked his rejection of their 
response on their file. Mr S then asked, in early January 2021, if he could accept the 
goodwill gesture and still bring the complaint to our service, but T212 said that hed left it too 
late and so could no longer accept the offer. 
Mr S brought the complaint to our service. He said T212 had failed to inform customers of 
the date of Xs bonus issue and the fact that this had been done before the advertised date. 
And he said theyd failed to update the platform with accurate graphs, so presented a 
misleading view of the situation. He was also upset that hed been given such a short 
timeframe to accept the offer and felt that it intentionally discouraged consumers from 
bringing complaints to us. 
Our investigator asked T212 if theyd reconsider and pay Mr S the £367 theyd offered. But 
they declined, and offered £150 instead, noting that theyd had to go to significant trouble to 
provide information to our service about the complaint. Our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint  she said T212 wasnt responsible for the date the bonus issue took place. And 
she said she didnt think T212 had penalised Mr S for bringing his complaint to us.
Mr S wasnt happy with our investigators outcome  so the matters come to me.
After reviewing the complaint, I didnt fully agree with our investigator. So I issued a 
provisional decision on 30 January 2023 in which I said:
The bonus issue
Ive looked at the information available about the bonus issue. I can understand why Mr S 
thought he would be eligible for bonus shares - the press release issued by X implied that 
the bonus issue would be based on shareholdings as at the close of business on 
3 August 2020. 
However, T212 have sent the Bloomberg data for the bonus issue which shows that the 
ex-date was in fact 31 July 2020. This is the date by which an investor would need to 
hold shares in order to qualify. So Im inclined to say T212 are correct in saying Mr S 
wasnt eligible for the bonus shares.
It seems Mr S holds T212 responsible for the bonus issue taking place early. However, 
this action would have been taken by X and its brokers rather than by T212. So I cant 
hold T212 responsible for the timing of the bonus issue, or for the misleading 
announcement made by X.
The information T212 provided
T212 have admitted that they werent displaying the price movement correctly during 30 
and 31 July 2020. Theyve said, though, that in accordance with their terms of business, 
their charts serve only an indicative purpose and actual execution value may vary. While I 
appreciate that there are sometimes differences between indicative value and execution 
value, these are generally relatively small  and this isnt what Mr S is complaining about. 
Hes complaining that T212 showed a significant price decrease and didnt show the 
corporate action, i.e. the bonus issue, that had prompted it.
Its clear from his testimony, and from his actions, that Mr S wouldnt have bought the 
shares in X if hed known that the drop in share price reflected the impact of the bonus 
issue  in effect every one share was being replaced by four shares, so they were each 
worth roughly 25% of the price. 
Whilst T212 arent responsible for the market movements, they do have a duty to provide 
information that isnt misleading. The Financial Conduct Authority sets out this out in its 
Principle 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. Im 
inclined to say that T212 didnt meet this principle  the information on their website about 
X was misleading and it induced Mr S to buy shares he otherwise would not have bought.
Withdrawal of the offer
I appreciate Mr S is very upset that T212 only gave him two weeks to accept their offer 
and that they then withdrew it. While he says this was intentional on the part of T212 to 
discourage him from bringing his complaint to our service, Im inclined to say thats not 
unreasonable  T212 are entitled to try to resolve complaints in this way. Mr S was 
corresponding with T212 well before the deadline and was clearly aware of it so I cant 
say he was disadvantaged by T212s deadline and subsequent withdrawal of the offer. Putting things right
Mr S says his financial loss is £367, and T212 hasnt disputed that. So Im inclined to say 
T212 should pay Mr S £367, together with simple interest at 8% per year on that amount 
from 31 July 2020 to the date of settlement.
Mr S accepted my decision, but T212 didnt. In summary, their comments were:
clients are made aware that their charts are indicative;
theyre not obliged to provide information about upcoming corporate actions, or about 
the execution of corporate actions;
Mr S could have contacted T212 before buying the shares;
Mr S bought the shares before understanding that the corporate action was taking 
place so he clearly intended to buy shares at the lower price and didnt familiarize 
himself with the news of the corporate action;
Mr Ss main complaint is that he wasnt eligible to benefit from the bonus shares;
T212 doesnt provide advice and Mr S could have researched the instrument prior to 
purchasing the shares; and
the loss incurred isnt a result of the corporate action or of T212s charts  its the 
result of market movements after Mr S bought the shares. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about T212s points but I havent changed my mind. Mr S bought the shares 
primarily because he saw them advertised on 31 July 2020 as one of T212s biggest 
losers. T212 said the share price had fallen by around 70%. Mr S researched the company 
before buying the shares and saw that a bonus issue was imminent. Everything he read 
about the bonus issue said it was happening on 4 August 2020. 
But T212s information  the substantial drop in share price and the associated biggest 
loser headline  reflected the bonus issue. The drop in share price wasnt real  it was 
because every share had effectively been divided into four. This was due to happen on 
4 August  as Mr S knew  but instead T212 showed the effect of it on 31 July without giving 
any indication of what had caused the drop in share price.  
I appreciate T212 say theyre not obliged to provide information about corporate actions. But 
in this instance, they advertised a stock in a way that was misleading. And it was this 
misleading information that caused Mr S to buy the shares. I appreciate his loss is due to 
market movements  but Mr S wouldnt have bought the shares, and therefore wouldnt have 
incurred the loss, if T212 hadnt promoted the shares in this misleading way on their 
platform.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Trading 212 UK Limited need to 
pay Mr S £367 plus simple interest at 8% per year.If Trading 212 UK Limited considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr S how much theyve taken off. They 
should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman