DRN-4435895
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say were misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs S are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around August 2017, Mr and Mrs S were contacted by a representative of a company 
Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs S decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In March 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr and Mrs Ss behalf under section 75 of the Act 
to Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs S to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding.
The feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the finance agreement repayment costs.
Mr and Mrs S also complained to P directly that the system should be producing 
more energy than it was and was therefore underperforming. 
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs S or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld and 
that the system was likely misrepresented to Mr and Mrs S. She suggested Shawbrook put 
things right by ensuring Shawbrook charged Mr and Mrs S no more than the benefit they 
would likely receive over the term of the loan. 
Shawbrook didnt agree to our investigators view of the complaint. Shawbrook said the 
system was not sold as self-funding and the sales quote had made that clear. Shawbrook 
also wanted to carry out an inspection to see whether there was a fault with the system. 
Having completed it, Shawbrook said that while the system had underperformed, and it was 
not faulty, the performance issues were due to increased foliage growth over a period of 5 
years effecting generation. This did not mean the system benefits had been misrepresented 
to the consumers and it had made no other errors. Our investigator was not persuaded by 
this argument and maintained the complaint should be upheld.
 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
In my provisional decision of 12 October 2023, I set out why I was minded to upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Both Shawbrook and Mr and Mrs S, broadly accepted my 
findings, although Mr and Mrs S felt the compensatory element of my recommended award 
was too low. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs S paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs S could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs S and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs S say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The cost of the system
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Mr and Mrs S have said that the cost of the system was documented as £9,134. They have 
indicated that this was done to mislead them as this figure did not include any interest 
associated with the loan so hid the true cost of the system, £17,349.40.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs S were told that the cost of the system was £9,134. 
The credit agreement sets out that the cash price of the system was £9,134. The total 
amount of credit is £9,034 (after deducting a deposit of £100) and goes on to show that the 
total amount payable would be £17,349.40.
The quote set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £95.83. But I note Mr and 
Mrs S deferred their payments for a few months which is reflected in their credit agreement 
and their monthly payment is also marginally different at £96.54  but I dont think these 
differences make the quote mis-leading. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
they were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this 
clear, as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote 
and the credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,134, it 
would cost Mr and Mrs S more than this as they had decided to pay for it with an interest-
bearing loan. 
Self-funding 
Mr and Mrs S have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be 
covered, or self-funded by the FIT payments and savings on their energy bills. Ive 
considered the quote that was provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their 
meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs S could 
expect to receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected 
FIT payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT 
scheme only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive a total 
FIT income in year one of £228.10, which results in an average monthly income of £19.00. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs S could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £404.51 and, when taking into account 
the optional extras chosen by Mr and Mrs S the combined income and savings in year one 
is shown as £935.30. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due of £96.54 (which is £1,158.48 annually). As a result, Im not able to conclude 
that the consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT 
payments and savings on energy bills.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr and Mrs S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan 
as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £96.54. For each year of the 15- year loan it 
shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 
months, and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £96.54, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs S could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. The table does clearly set out that the overall income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the 
consumers werent told that the FIT payments and savings would cover the loan repayment. 
Ive carefully thought about the consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that 
the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at 
the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and additional savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs S that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs S were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
Self-funding over a period of time 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that Mr and 
Mrs S could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs S that the system would pay for 
itself by year 13, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were 
an untrue statement of fact at the time it was made, and Im satisfied that this was what 
induced them to enter into the contract, and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would 
amount to a misrepresentation.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate the utility price and RPI inflation. 
I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 2020 and the increases have 
been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think partly explains why they 
havent been receiving the financial returns they may have been expecting from the solar 
panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling predicted, the 
savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been correspondingly 
lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have used them 
as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs S couldve expected to 
receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not have been as 
high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to unreasonable 
assumptions being used by P at the time they entered into the contract, so I dont think this 
is sufficient for me to uphold their complaint on this basis.
This then leads me to consider the performance of the system in terms of energy generated. 
Underperformance 
So, Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with 
the contract between P and Mr and Mrs S. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the 
system is expected to produce 3464 kWh a year. And the benefits shown in the quote were 
calculated based on that level of generation.
I have looked at Mr and Mrs Ss FIT statements and meter readings, and can see that the 
system, on average, has generated 2808.57 kWh. This is significantly less than estimated by 
P at the point of sale, so Im satisfied that the system isnt performing as expected.
I understand Mr and Mrs S raised this with P directly shortly after the system was installed. 
The system was inspected, and a repair carried out in July 2018. P said the system had 
underperformed by 560kWh so P paid Mr and Mrs S £107.40 in compensation for the lost 
generation up to that point. However, the system has continued to significantly 
underperform. 
It is unclear why the system has underperformed, but Shawbrook has inspected the system 
a second time and has said the system is not faulty but accepts it is generating significantly 
less than it should. It says this is because there has been significant foliage growth over the 
5 years since installation, which could be impacting generation. But it doesnt mean the 
system benefits were misrepresented at the time of sale, and it cannot be held responsible 
for such issues which is outside of its control. 
However, like our investigator, I am not persuaded by Shawbrooks explanation of why the 
system has underperformed to this degree. During the July 2018 repair, P commented that it 
had Looked over for shading and there isnt anything worth worrying about. Which 
indicates that there wasnt any significant growth at this time. So, after the repair in July 
2018, the system ought to have performed in line with the quote and MCS certificate. 
However, the meter readings from 2019 (only a year following the repair) show the system 
continued to underperform despite the repair. And it has continued to underperform since. 
2019 (post repair)
The meter reading from December 2019 of 6595 kWh gives an annual generation of 
2,795.77 kWh. Even if we add the underperformance of 560kWh from the year before which 
was supposedly caused by the faulty inverter, the annual generation is only 3036.81 kWh 
(against an MCS estimate of 3464)
The meter reading from April 2022 of 12,880.99 kWh shows an average annual generation 
of 2808.57. Even with the additional 560 kWh adjustment, the annual generation is 2930.68 
kWh. 
If the system generation issues were caused by shading caused by foliage, I would have 
expected the system to perform in line with Ps estimates at the beginning of the installation 
(or at least in 2019 post repair given that there were no issues with shading noted at that 
time). And then the system would have started to produce less over time as shading 
impacted the panels ability to generate.But this has not happened here. It looks as though this system has never performed in line 
with the MCS certificate or the quote. 
So, based on the evidence available to me, I think that its more likely P misrepresented the 
systems ability to generate electricity, and as a result the benefits it would produce relative 
to the cost of the loan. I think this misrepresentation induced Mr and Mrs S into entering into 
the contract and its likely they bought the system based on the systems ability to generate 
energy in line with the contract. Because of this, I think that Shawbrook didnt treat Mr and 
Mrs S fairly and they have lost out because of this. And this means that Shawbrook should 
put things right.
Summary 
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that the system wasnt mis-represented to Mr and Mrs S on the basis that it would 
be immediately self-funding. Im also satisfied that the assumptions used to estimate the 
benefits during the lifetime of the system were reasonable. 
However, I think its more likely that Shawbrook did misrepresent the systems ability to 
generate energy, and the benefits were then estimated on that basis. I think its likely that Mr 
and Mrs S bought the system on the basis that the system would generate energy in line 
with the contract and were expecting benefits that correspond with that level of generation.  
The system has not performed in line with the contract and from what I can see, it will not 
perform in line with the contract going forward. Im therefore satisfied that Mr and Mrs S have 
suffered a loss because of this and Shawbrook should therefore put this right. 
Putting things right
In this case, I think fair compensation is trying to make sure that Mr and Mrs S do not suffer 
a financial loss, which in my view would mean that the solar panel system should
generate roughly what was promised via the sales paperwork and MCS certificate.
So, I think to put things right Shawbrook should:
a) calculate the difference between what the panels have generated as income 
(through FIT and savings) for Mr and Mrs S and what the sales paperwork set out as 
being the annual total income savings, 
b) add 8% simple interest to that amount and pay the total to Mr and Mrs S
Shawbrook can deduct the £107.40 from the compensation that it already paid Mr and Mrs S 
for the underperformance in July 2018. 
The finance agreement in question was due to end in 2032. To ensure that Mr and Mrs S 
dont lose out going forward, Shawbrook should then:
c) calculate the average annual underperformance percentage so far, and assume 
that the panels will continue to underperform at that rate through to the conclusion of 
the finance agreement
d) recalculate the total income savings for each year going forward until the 
conclusion of the finance agreement, having applied the percentage reduction 
identified in c) abovee) pay Mr and Mrs S the difference between the revised amounts calculated in d) 
above and the total income savings set out in the sales paperwork.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr and Mrs S first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I intend to direct 
Shawbrook to pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Shawbrook replied accepting my findings and requested updated FIT statements and a 
meter reading to help it work out redress. Mr and Mrs S said theyre also happy to settle the 
matter on this basis and submitted FIT statements. They said a meter reading would follow. 
Mr and Mrs S have, however, said theyve waited a considerable amount of time for a 
resolution and do not feel £100 compensation for the worry theyve experienced is adequate. 
I do appreciate that it has been a considerable amount of time since Mr and Mrs S initially 
raised their concerns, but their complaint has been upheld and they will be compensated for 
their losses. I think the £100 is broadly in line with what we would normally award for the 
length of time taken to resolve the complaint, and I havent seen any other factors that lead 
me to conclude a higher award is warranted here. 
So, in the absence of any further points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from 
my findings as set out in my provisional decision. With this in mind, I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
In this case, I think fair compensation is trying to make sure that Mr and Mrs S do not suffer 
a financial loss, which in my view would mean that the solar panel system should
generate roughly what was promised via the sales paperwork and MCS certificate.
So, I think to put things right Shawbrook should:
a) calculate the difference between what the panels have generated as income 
(through FIT and savings) for Mr and Mrs S and what the sales paperwork set out as 
being the annual total income savings, 
b) add 8% simple interest to that amount and pay the total to Mr and Mrs S
Shawbrook can deduct the £107.40 from the compensation that it already paid Mr and Mrs S 
for the underperformance in July 2018. 
The finance agreement in question was due to end in 2032. To ensure that Mr and Mrs S 
dont lose out going forward, Shawbrook should then:
c) calculate the average annual underperformance percentage so far, and assume 
that the panels will continue to underperform at that rate through to the conclusion of 
the finance agreement
d) recalculate the total income savings for each year going forward until the 
conclusion of the finance agreement, having applied the percentage reduction 
identified in c) above
e) pay Mr and Mrs S the difference between the revised amounts calculated in d) 
above and the total income savings set out in the sales paperwork.Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr and Mrs S first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct Shawbrook to 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman