DRN-4168366
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money he lost when he was a 
victim of a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Mr W was the victim of a crypto scam after being contacted by the scammer in April 2022 on 
an instant messenger app. He made payments to a legitimate crypto exchange before 
sending the funds onto the scammer to be invested. After seeing profits from his investment 
in the trading account, Mr W tried to withdraw some of the funds but he was told this 
wouldnt be possible without paying a significant fee. At this point, Mr W realised hed been 
scammed. 
The relevant payments are:
Date Type Amount
28 April 2022 Debit card transaction £80.88
29 April 2022 Debit card transaction £81.40
29 April 2022 Debit card transaction £162.85
9 May 2022 Debit card transaction £482.47
9 May 2022 Debit card transaction £907.87
12 May 2022 Debit card transaction £829.02
16 May 2022 Debit card transaction £1,699.45
17 May 2022 Debit card transaction £1,669.71
26 May 2022 Debit card transaction £890.54
6 June 2022 Debit card transaction £48.45
6 June 2022 Debit card transaction £2,937.76
6 June 2022 Debit card transaction £3,150.59
Total: £12,940.99
Mr W reported the scam to Barclays in early July 2022. Barclays wrote to Mr W requesting 
further information, to allow them to start the chargeback process, but didnt receive a 
response. Mr W says he didnt receive this letter. 
In November 2022, with the assistance of a third-party firm, Mr W complained to Barclays 
about the above payments he made as part of a crypto scam. He said Barclays failed in their 
duty of care to protect him from it by not identifying the above payments as unusual and 
suspicious, thereby warranting further investigation and enquiries. And had such enquiries 
been made, Barclays wouldve become aware he was likely falling victim to a scam. At which 
point, upon being appropriately warned of the risks involved, he wouldnt have proceeded 
with making the payments. Because of this, Mr W wanted Barclays to reimburse him the loss 
he suffered from the scam. 
Barclays upheld the complaint in part. They said they couldnt provide a full refund as the 
payments werent out of character for Mr Ws account up until the fifth payment, and he 
didnt carry out any checks about the person he was in contact with. They did however agree 
to refund half of the payments made from the fifth one onwards  and they credited 
£6,046.27 to Mr Ws account. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman but our Investigator didnt think 
Barclays had to do anything more. In short, she said:
She didnt think Barclays was responsible for Mr Ws loss as they couldnt reasonably 
have prevented the scam payments being made. This was because she didnt think 
the payments were particularly unusual or suspicious to Barclays, thereby requiring 
them to intervene before processing them. This was because Mr W had made 
payments of a similar amount previously and, by the point of the larger payments, 
they were being sent to an established payee. Further, there werent any warnings 
regarding the crypto exchange (merchant) for the payments to have flagged with 
Barclays.
As Mr W didnt speak with Barclays at the time of the payments, she couldnt say 
they missed an opportunity to identify them being made in relation to a scam.
The chargeback process wasnt started as Barclays didnt receive the additional 
information from Mr W. That said, even if Mr W provided the information and a 
chargeback was processed, she didnt think there was any reasonable prospect of 
success as Mr W received the service from the crypto exchange. 
Barclays refunded £6,046.27 to Mr W. But 50% of the payments from the fifth one 
onwards is £6,066.69. Having queried this difference with Barclays, theyd offered to 
pay the additional £20.42 to Mr W. 
Mr W disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, he added:
He explained how the scam happened and that the government are now highlighting 
the prevalence of them  including how there isnt any organisation, body, or way of 
checking the authenticity of such people and firms. The government also announced, 
in 2022, a new crackdown on fraud and money laundering to protect the UK 
economy. And so, given there are identity checks to open accounts, the money from 
the scam payments should be traceable and retrievable. 
Hes disappointed there isnt a proper tracing system to freeze the accounts used by 
scammers. 
He has screenshots of his entire interaction with the scammer.
The payments were unusual for his account, as it was being sent to the same payee 
and increasing in value. Therefore, they shouldve been flagged by Barclays as 
potentially being due to a scam, with appropriate warnings given to him. He received 
no alerts or contact from Barclays in this regard.
He wasnt in a good place at the time of the scam as, in the year prior, hed lost both 
his mother and father as well as his mother-in-law. And it saddens him that the 
money he lost to the scam came from his mothers estate. 
He didnt receive the letter from Barclays requesting additional information. He 
moved property but has a postal redirection in place. Given the letter wasnt sent by 
recorded delivery, Barclays cant assume it was received and they made no further 
attempts to contact him about it. 
He thinks Barclays should refund him the full amount paid to the scammer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr W has been the victim of a scam and I dont underestimate the impact this has 
had on him - particularly as the funds he lost sadly came from his mothers estate. But while 
Im sympathetic to Mr Ws situation, I must consider whether Barclays is responsible for the 
loss he suffered. And while I know this wont be the outcome Mr W is hoping for, I dont think 
they are. It follows that I dont think Barclays has to do anything more. Ill explain why. 
Id like to firstly acknowledge the level of detail Mr W has gone to in explaining how he was 
scammed. This has been extremely useful in understanding what happened. But while Mr W 
has offered to provide further evidence of his interactions with the scammer, I dont feel this 
is necessary as I fully accept he was scammed and Im satisfied Ive got enough information 
to decide his complaint. At which point, Id like to assure Mr W that Ive very carefully 
considered all the evidence he has provided. And so, if I dont mention a particular point its 
not because I havent considered it, but Ive focussed instead on what I believe to be 
important to the outcome of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
that their customer authorises them to make. It isnt disputed that Mr W knowingly made the 
payments from his Barclays account and so, Im satisfied he authorised them. Therefore, 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his account, Barclays are 
expected to process the payments and Mr W is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
However, taking into account regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for Barclays to 
take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr W to Barclays (either 
individually or collectively) were unusual enough to have expected additional checks being 
carried out before the payments were processed. 
Having reviewed Mr Ws account statements for the twelve months prior to the scam, I can 
see that it was typically used for relatively low value day to day spending. There were 
however, at times, transactions that Mr W made of a higher value  ranging from about £500 
up to £3,000. And so, given the highest value payment to the crypto exchange was only just 
over £3,000, I dont think the payments were out of character for Mr Ws account based on 
their value. 
Ive also considered the frequency of the payments  as multiple payments made within a 
short period of time can be a feature of crypto scams. Here however, I dont think the 
payments were made within a sufficiently short enough amount of time  and of a high 
enough value - for them to have been seen as suspicious. And by the point of the higher 
value payments, with over £6,000 sent across three payments on 6 June 2022, Mr W had 
already made several prior payments to the crypto exchange and so it wouldve been seen 
as an established merchant. Because of this, Im not persuaded that the payments Mr W 
made to the crypto exchange wouldve been sufficiently unusual to have indicated a 
heightened risk of financial harm from fraud.
Barclays, having considered the complaint, offered to consider the fifth payment as unusual 
but I dont think they needed to. I therefore wouldnt have expected Barclays to have taken 
additional steps or carry out additional checks before processing the payments. It follows that I think Barclays has acted more than fairly by refunding 50% from this payment onwards 
(including the additional £20.42 theyve since offered to pay).
Ive considered whether, on being alerted to the scam, Barclays could reasonably have done 
anything to recover Mr Ws losses, but I dont think they could. The only possible option for 
recovery here, given the payments were made by debit card, would have been via 
chargeback claims. Barclays have shown they wrote to Mr W requesting additional 
information so that a chargeback(s) could be processed but they didnt receive a response. 
Mr W says he didnt receive this letter but, even if it wasnt received, I dont think I can hold 
Barclays responsible if there was a mailing error (as this wasnt within their control). And I 
wouldnt expect Barclays to have sent the correspondence by recorded delivery. 
Nevertheless, even if Mr W had received the letter and provided Barclays the additional 
information for a chargeback to be processed, I dont think this wouldve led to a refund. This 
is because, as our Investigator explained, these payments were sent to the crypto exchange 
for the use of purchasing crypto. Because of this, I dont think chargeback claims would have 
been successful as Mr W received the service he paid for. As such, I dont think Barclays is 
responsible for the loss Mr W suffered due to not processing chargeback claims on the 
payments. 
I understand Mr W has explained he wasnt in a good place at the time of scam due to 
several close family bereavements. While Im very sorry for Mr Ws loss and the affect this 
had on him, Ive not seen anything to show Barclays were aware of this at the time. And so, 
although I appreciate Mr W may have been more vulnerable to the scam at this difficult 
period, I dont think I can fairly apply further responsibility to Barclays because of this. 
On a final note, Im aware Mr W has questioned why the payments cannot be traced and 
recovered given the identify check requirements to open a bank account. While Ive noted 
Mr Ws concerns in this respect, I think it would be helpful for me to explain that the 
payments in question went to a legitimate crypto exchange. Because of this, any 
responsibility for Barclays to recover the funds he lost is limited to contacting the crypto 
exchange. Barclays wouldnt be expected to seek recovery of the funds beyond this. But 
even if they did, given the methods used by scammers to ensure anonymity with these types 
of crypto scams it would be highly unlikely that any further attempts to recover the funds 
would be successful. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr W and the loss hes suffered. But it would only be fair 
for me to direct Barclays to refund more than they already have if I thought they was 
responsible  and Im not persuaded that this was the case. For the above reasons, I think 
Barclays has refunded more than I wouldve directed and so, Im not going to tell them to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman