DRN-4342940
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was given unsuitable investment advice by Skerritt Consultant 
Limited, referred to as Skerritt or the business. 
In summary, he says: 
Skerritt was wrong to advise him to move his ISA from its existing home to a new 
provider. 
It was done so on the false premise that hed make money, but he was exposed to 
more risk than he agreed to. 
To put thing right, hed like compensation for the gains he wouldve otherwise made by 
staying with his previous provider. 
What happened
In 2017, Mr S was advised to transfer his ISA over to a new provider. I understand that this 
was done so, in the hope that hed make better returns. 
At the time he was in his late 50s, married and in full time employment. He owned his own 
home too, without an outstanding mortgage. He also held £37,000 in joint savings, £5,500 in 
a cash ISA and £32,000 in a Stocks and Shares ISA managed by the previous provider. 
Mr Ss attitude to risk was assessed as eight out of ten, and he was viewed as a medium to 
high-risk investor. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Our service is unable to consider a complaint about complaints handling because 
its not a regulated activity, even though the business is. Therefore, its not something 
our service can look at. 
Poor performance alone isnt a basis upon which to uphold a complaint. Despite what 
Mr S says our service wouldnt ask for a comparison of his old and new ISA providers 
as a basis to uphold (or reject) the complaint. 
Performance of the overall portfolio is dependent on external factors  including the 
management discretion of fund managers  so its not something that our service 
would consider or blame Skerritt for. 
As the account was operated on a discretionary basis, its not for us to investigate 
each (subjective) decision taken by the fund manager regarding the portfolio, and 
certainly not do so with the benefit of hindsight. 
Its impossible to know for sure how things were likely to turn out. Recommendations 
dont always work, and unless a guarantee is given theres not always a recourse if 
the recommendation doesnt succeed. 
The judgement of one manager cant be (fairly) compared to another, that wouldnt 
be a fair comparison given the subjective decisions each will make. 
In this instance, Mr S was advised to move his ISA so that it could also be managed 
on a discretionary basis. This meant there was no new injection of cash into the ISA, 
instead it involved transferring funds already invested elsewhere. 
The charges for the advice/investment were made clear. It was also made 
reasonably clear to Mr S that the value of his investment could fluctuate. So, whilst 
the aim of the advice was to achieve potential growth (in the long term) this wasnt 
guaranteed. 
Annual reviews took place on a regular basis and his ATR was re-assessed at 
regular intervals. 
Overall, and on balance, the advice was suitable in the circumstances. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
He understood that the investment was a risk-based investment and that no 
guarantees were given. However, Skerritts claims about how the investment would 
grow were based on false information. 
He paid the Skerritt (and the new provider) fees to make any changes necessary to 
make his investment grow, but they were both happy to let it flatline. They knew the 
benchmarks but didnt do what they were told. 
He was happy to pay more in charges for Skerritt to do what it was supposed to  
change to better funds  but it didnt. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr S says, Im unable to safely 
say that Skerritt behaved unreasonably. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ss strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions 
to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr S and Skerritt, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.I dont uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons:
I agree with the investigator that service complaints arent regulated, therefore this 
isnt something that our service would generally consider. 
I also agree that complaints about investment performance alone are not something 
that wed consider, and therefore this isnt something that I can look into (in isolation) 
in this instance. 
Investment performance is dependent on the financial markets, and not something 
that a business can predict or control, therefore its not something that I can blame 
Skerritt for. 
An investment not making a positive return, doesnt of itself mean that the advice was 
unsuitable. I appreciate Mr S was advised to transfer his ISA, in the hope that hed 
make a better return however no guarantees were given. In the circumstances and 
on balance, I cant say that he was told or led to believe that hed make a 
particular/specific return on his investment. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the 
advice wasnt given in good faith. 
I appreciate that hed hoped for better returns, but the fact that he didnt get that  
compared to his previous ISA  doesnt mean the advice was wrong, because there 
were no guarantees.  
I note Mr S says that he was advised to take more risk than he was willing to take, 
but on balance I dont agree  based on what Skerritt says, I note the fund was lower 
risk than his ATR. On balance, Im also satisfied that he was content with a higher 
ATR and was potentially prepared to take a greater risk.     
Its arguable that a greater level of risk was inevitable, if the investor wanted the 
potential for higher returns, and may explain why Mr S agreed to the (higher) ATR at 
the time. Given his circumstances as set out above, I cant say that Skerritt did 
anything wrong. In other words, I cant say  based on his circumstances and 
assessment by Skerritt  that a medium to high ATR (for this portion of his money) 
was unsuitable.   
I note what Mr S says about the advice, but I cant agree that this was based on false 
information. I note he thinks that Skerritt shouldve forensically checked the product, 
but I dont think thats practicable and not what a business is expected to do in these 
circumstances. So, Skerritt hasnt behaved unreasonably by not doing so. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that the 
recommendation didnt meet his long-term objective for growth  there was nothing to 
suggest that it wouldnt. Just because five/six years or so in, it didnt provide as much 
return as Mr S wouldve liked, doesnt mean that Skerritt has done anything wrong. I 
note Skerritt has pointed out numerous other advantages, including Mr Ss pension 
and ISA being held in the same place, which Im aware can be very convenient.  
Im mindful that following a financial review in 2020, Mr S was found to be a six out of 
ten in terms of his ATR, which had reduced by two positions. But this doesnt of itself 
mean that the 2017 ATR assessment was wrong, because it was roughly three years 
since his investment and his circumstances may have changed a little. 
In any case, based on what Skerritt says, I note Mr S was advised to invest in the VT 
Esprit Tactical Growth Fund  designed for long term growth  which was lower risk 
than his ATR.  Given that he was close to retirement, I cant say that the advice to 
invest in this fund was unreasonable. Even if it hadnt, and had been a medium to 
high-risk fund, its arguable that it wasnt unreasonable given his circumstances.   
I note that Mr Ss finances were subsequently reviewed again in spring 2021, his 
ATR had remained six out of ten  I note according to Skerritt, but it wasnt 
necessary to deviate from the original advice. The 2017 advice was given with a 
longer-term horizon in mind and may explain why he wasnt advised to make any 
changes.  I appreciate that Mr S will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate his frustration, I cant safely say that Skerritt provided unsuitable advice.
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I cant uphold this 
complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman