DRN-3347884
The complaint
Mr M and Mr M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (First Direct) 
declined their transfer of funds on two occasions. 
What happened
Mr M and Mr M attempted a transfer of £21,000 from their First Direct current account to a 
savings account. They say the First Direct app showed the payment was successful as the 
balance in the current account was reduced by £21,000. However, later that day the savings 
account didnt show these funds being credited and the funds then reappeared in their 
current account so they attempted the transfer again. Mr M and Mr M say the same thing 
happened again in that the funds left their First Direct current account, but didnt show in 
their savings account  and then reappeared back in their current account. Mr M and Mr M 
say they then received a voicemail from First Direct the following day asking them to contact 
First Direct. They called First Direct who told them they had stopped the transactions as part 
of their fraud checks. Mr M and Mr M then complained to First Direct. 
First Direct responded and explained the payments had been stopped for fraud checks and 
they have no way of avoiding these as they happen automatically depending on certain 
criteria. They said, if a payment is stopped for fraud checks, its important for them to contact 
the customer at the earliest opportunity to clarify whether the payment is valid. They said, 
they tried to call Mr M and Mr M and sent a letter to say the payments had been stopped and 
to contact the fraud team to discuss the payment before it could be released. First Direct 
apologised Mr M and Mr M werent contacted the first time the payment was declined, they 
said this would be fed back to help improve their service. They confirmed the payment had 
now been sent following Mr M and Mr Ms conversation with their fraud team.     
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M and Mr M. He thought there hadnt been any 
errors by First Direct and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M and Mr M disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr M and Mr M will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
I should say at the outset that this service doesnt have power to require a business to 
change its processes. Or to direct what checks it should require when authenticating a 
payment. First Direct say they have different fraud checks depending on the transaction type 
and how and why it has been flagged. For the type of transaction which Mr M and Mr M 
carried it, their fraud check required them to speak with the customer. Both payments are for 
a significant amount, so I dont see this as being unreasonable or uncommon when 
considering how banks apply their security processes. 
I understand that it can be inconvenient if a transaction is held up pending authentication. 
But I dont find that First Direct did anything wrong in holding up both payments. Its in all our 
interests that security checks are enforced to reduce the likelihood of banks and their 
customers becoming victims of fraud. 
First Direct have provided information which shows the first payment was attempted at 
3.48pm on 17 September. This payment was picked up for fraud checks at 9.00pm and 
reversed. Mr M and Mr M then attempted the payment again at 11.58pm. The payment was 
again picked up for fraud checks the following day at 3.51pm and an attempt was made to 
call Mr M and Mr M at 3.57pm and a voicemail message was left together with a letter being 
sent. At 7.30pm, as no contact had been made by Mr M and Mr M, the payment was 
reversed. Mr M and Mr M then called First Direct to confirm the payment and this was then 
sent. 
First Direct say, if a payment is selected for a fraud check, its placed in their Fraud 
Response Teams queue to be reviewed. They say, normally, they will attempt to call within 
two hours of a payment being set up to ensure the payment is genuine. However, if they are 
experiencing high volumes of fraud checks, it isnt always possible to contact every customer 
within these timescales. First Direct say, in this case, by the time the first payment was 
picked up from the queue to check, it was too late to call Mr M and Mr M, so it was 
automatically reversed. Then, after the second attempt, it flagged up again, and was picked 
up from the queue at 3.51pm the following day and a call was attempted and a voicemail 
was left. It was reviewed again at 7.30pm and was reversed as Mr M and Mr M hadnt made 
contact to authenticate the payment. 
I do acknowledge Mr M and Mr Ms concern about not being contacted after the first 
attempted payment but First Direct have explained, by the time the check was picked up, it 
was too late to call so it was automatically reversed. I can see First Direct have apologised 
for this but they have referred to their process and why a call wasnt made and why the 
payment was then reversed. As mentioned above, we dont have the power to direct a 
business on what their processes should be. We can only look to see whether the process 
has been applied fairly  and in this case, I cant say the process was applied unfairly. 
In relation to the second attempted transfer, I again understand why Mr M and Mr M are 
concerned about the communication from First Direct. In this case, the phone call was made 
nearly 16 hours after the second payment. While this is outside of First Directs normal 
process of a phone call within two hours of a payment being set up, they have explained 
they cant always meet these timescales when theyre experiencing high volumes of fraud 
checks. I cant say its reasonable for First Direct to anticipate when they might experience 
high volumes as this will depend on the number of transactions that are captured by their 
fraud system. So, I cant say it was unreasonable for First Direct to miss this timescale given 
they were experiencing high volumes of fraud checks. I can see First Direct did then make a 
call but unfortunately were unable to speak with Mr M and Mr M so this payment was also 
reversed. 
Taking this all into account, I cant say First Direct have acted unreasonably. They have a 
process in place and Ive seen no evidence that process was applied unfairly. 
I do acknowledge Mr M and Mr Ms frustrations around two attempted payments being 
reversed, but this was down to First Directs processes. And, while a call couldve been 
made sooner, the reason it wasnt was down to a factor outside of First Directs control.  
I can see Mr M and Mr M raise a concern about First Directs complaints handling. Complaint 
handling isnt a regulated or other covered activity. So as a general rule, and in line with the 
law, if the complaint is solely about complaint handling, we wouldnt be able to look into 
things. Where complaint handling forms a part of a customers complaint, then we can take into account complaint handling when looking at the overall customer experience. In this 
case, I cant say the issues which Mr M and Mr M raise about the complaints handling are an 
extension of the issues which relate to regulated activities, so I cant look into the complaint 
handling part of the complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman