DRN-3341703
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car acquired with finance from Close Brothers Limited trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance (CB) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with CB.
Mr M experienced issues with the car. These included issues with the front offside wheel 
bearing, drive shaft and an oil leak. Mr M reported these issues to the supplying dealer, who 
advised him to contact the warranty company. The warranty company said that none of the 
issues were covered because they were due to wear and tear.
Mr M obtained a report from a third-party garage which confirmed the issues. The supplying 
dealer offered to repair the oil leak but not the other issues.
In December 2021 Mr M contacted CB to make a complaint. CB arranged for an 
independent inspection of the car. The inspector found that the car made excessive noise 
when driven, that oil was leaking from the rocker cover, that there was excessive movement 
to the nearside front wheel bearing and that there was corrosion to the ABS reductor rings. 
The inspector said that these faults wouldnt have been present at the point of supply.
Based on the findings of the independent inspection, CB didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It 
said it wasnt responsible for repairs because the faults were due to wear and tear. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the issues were due to wear and 
tear, and that there wasnt enough evidence to say that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply.
Mr M didnt agree. He said he hadnt caused the wear and tear and said the car had faults 
when he got it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general condition, and other things including fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. I would expect a  
second hand car  such as that supplied to Mr M  to have a degree of wear and tear and to 
require repairs and maintenance more often than a brand new car, So, on order to uphold 
this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the car which 
made it of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply, as opposed to a fault which occurred 
due to general wear and tear.
When the car was supplied to Mr M. it was nearly 11 years old and had covered almost 
88,000 miles. Its reasonable to expect that the component parts of a car will require repair 
and replacement over the lifetime of the car. Ive looked at the information about the issues 
which Mr M experienced with the car. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there was a 
fault with the car. These included faults with the rocker cover leaking oil, the front wheel 
bearing and corrosion affecting the driveshaft.
Just because there are faults with the car doesnt mean that it wasnt of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply. The independent engineers report says that although the faults are 
present now, he didnt think they were present at the point of supply. I appreciate that Mr M 
doesnt think that the faults could have been caused by wear and tear whilst the car was in 
his possession, as they occurred in the first 6 months of the agreement. However, the 
independent inspection report is expert evidence and I have to attach significant weight to it 
in reaching a decision as to whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
As Ive already said, Id expect a second hand car to have a degree of wear and tear when 
supplied. This doesnt mean that it is of unsatisfactory quality. Ive looked at the MOT for the 
car dated February 2021. There isnt anything in the MOT to suggest that there were pre-
existing faults with the car.
I can see that Mr M has been able to use the car for several months before the fault codes 
appeared. During this time, the car covered around 4000 miles. Given the nature of the 
faults and the component parts which are affected, I think that if the faults had been present 
at the point of supply, then they would have become apparent much sooner. The time and 
mileage elapsed since the point of supply makes it more likely that the faults are due to 
general wear and tear.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to say that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Because of this, I wont be asking 
Close Brothers to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman