DRN-2975786
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr T complain that Nationwide Building Society closed their joint accounts without 
providing appropriate notice and unfairly due to the number of complaints being made.
What happened
Mr T says he made a number of complaints to Nationwide and the majority were upheld. He 
says Nationwide decided to close his accounts which included joint accounts with Mrs C. Mr 
T says Mrs C wasnt party to the complaints and so it was unfair to close the joint accounts 
and also says she wasnt given the appropriate 60-days notice of closure. Mr T also 
complains that they were charged a monthly fee despite the accounts being closed. Mrs C 
and Mr T would like compensation for what took place and would like to be able to open new 
Nationwide accounts. They also say the letter to Mrs C from Nationwide was inappropriate.
Nationwide says it is entitled in line with account terms and conditions to close an account 
without reason by providing 60 days notice. It says it wrote to Mr T on 15 February 2021 
giving that notice and wrote to Mrs C on 26 February 2021. Nationwide says the account 
holders were entitled to the account benefits and so were correctly charged an account fee 
and says Mr T closed the accounts before the 60-day expiry period.
Mrs C and Mr T brought their complaint to us and our investigator didnt recommend 
Nationwide do anything further. The investigator accepted that Mrs C had received 49 days 
not 60 days notice of the account closure but didnt think that had any real impact as it was 
Mr T that used the account and it was known the accounts would close. The investigator 
thought the account charges were correctly applied.
Mrs C and Mr T dont accept that view and in summary say Nationwide didnt provide Mrs C 
reasons for the account closure and says it ought to have provided 60 days notice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Nationwide ought to have provided Mrs 
C with 60 days notice of the account closure, but I dont think that had any impact on the 
parties or that it justifies any compensation.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which Im satisfied Mrs C and Mr T would 
have agreed to when the accounts were first opened. Those terms and conditions say that 
Nationwide can close an account without reason by providing 60 days notice. Im satisfied 
that Nationwide was entitled to close the accounts and did provide Mr T with that 60-day 
notice. Im also satisfied that Nationwide wrote to Mrs C on 26 February 2021 which would 
have given her about 49 days notice of the accounts being closed. I accept that Nationwide 
ought to have written to Mrs C on 15 February 2021. But I dont think that mistake had any 
impact on Mrs C and think it likely she would have been aware the accounts were closing, 
and I dont think the account statements suggest she was using the accounts. In any event I 
can see the account were closed before the date Nationwide intended to close the accounts 
which I think again suggests there was no real impact caused by the mistake.
I have looked carefully at the letters that Nationwide sent Mrs C and I dont think they were 
inappropriate or unprofessional. But I accept that they assumed Mrs C would be able to ask 
Mr T why the accounts were closing and think that Nationwide ought to have told her as a 
joint account holder why the account was closing rather than telling her to ask Mr T. I dont 
think that justifies any compensation or further action by Nationwide and also make clear 
that in line with account terms and conditions I dont think Nationwide was obliged to provide 
reasons for closing an account.
Im satisfied that whilst the accounts were open that Nationwide was entitled in line with 
account terms and conditions to charge a fee. And think it likely Mrs C and Mr T would have 
been entitled to any account benefits even if their account or accounts were shortly to close.
Overall, Im satisfied Nationwide was entitled in line with account terms and conditions to 
close an account and so didnt make a mistake or act unfairly. I accept Mrs C may not have 
received the full 60 days notice but for the reasons I have explained I dont find that had any 
real impact on her. I make clear that I dont think it matters if Mrs C was party to any of the 
complaints made by Mr T, as the account terms and conditions allow Nationwide to close an 
account without providing a reason. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman