DRN-2685365
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that esure Insurance Limited (esure) declined her claim for bike theft 
under her home contents insurance.
What happened
Mrs M claimed under her contents insurance after her bike was stolen. esure declined her 
claim because the bike was worth more than £500 as new but she hadnt specified it on the 
policy. Mrs M said it was second-hand when she bought it and the same bike in a used 
condition was available to buy at £500. She asked esure to pay her claim at the bikes value 
when it was stolen.
esure repeated that it wouldnt cover the bike because it wasnt specified on the policy. And 
if it accepted the value of the bike at £500 or less, it still wasnt covered under the policy. Mrs 
M complained to esure but it maintained its decision.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought esure had fairly declined the claim 
under the policy terms. 
Mrs M didnt agree. She thought it would be fair for esure to settle her claim for the maximum 
bike cover of £500 less her policy excess.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mrs M will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The theft of the bike doesnt appear to be in dispute. The issue here is that Mrs M thinks 
esure should settle her claim, not for the value of the bike as new, but for the value of 
replacing it with a used bike of the same or equivalent specification.
The policy says that a bike worth more than £500 as new must be specified. Mrs M hasnt 
said how much she bought her bike for, but she did say it was used and supplied evidence 
to show that the value was £500 when it was stolen. The amount Mrs M paid is irrelevant 
because the policy doesnt say anything about the purchase price or the condition of the 
bike. I think the policy is clear  its the value as new which matters and it must be specified. 
When Mrs M took out the policy, esure wouldve looked at the overall risk. Its likely that a 
bike worth more than £500 when new poses a greater risk of theft. The more expensive the 
bike is, the more desirable it is, and esure would be better placed to manage risk of a 
specified item. I understand that Mrs M is trying to be reasonable by requesting settlement at 
a lower figure than her bike is worth as new. But the simple fact is that she isnt covered for 
the theft because her bike was worth more than £500 as new and she hadnt listed it as a 
specified item.
Ive thought about whether there couldve been any misunderstanding about the as new 
value and the purchase price. I accept that someone might think as new means new to 
them, and therefore be equal to the purchase price. While I dont think the term is 
ambiguous, Ive thought about whether the outcome wouldve been different if Mrs M had 
misunderstood. But Im satisfied that the outcome would be the same. Thats because a bike 
worth £500 or less would be covered under personal possessions. Mrs Ms policy schedule 
shows that she didnt have personal possessions cover.
In summary, I think esure fairly declined Mrs Ms claim for the reasons it gave: the policy 
didnt cover bikes worth more than £500 as new unless specified, and she didnt have 
personal possessions cover, so a bike worth £500 or less wasnt covered under her policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman