DRN-2210292
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mr and Mrs H payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2002.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H have said they werent aware they had the PPI, and they also dont believe it 
was presented to them as optional. The sale of the PPI was almost 20 years ago, and it 
wouldnt surprising if someone didnt recall in detail everything that happened so long ago. 
But the documentary evidence does support Nationwides claim that Mr and Mrs H agreed to 
the PPI, and knew it was optional. The mortgage application form asks the customer to tick 
boxes either to say they want details of PPI (and then further whether they are interested in 
sickness cover and/or unemployment cover); or whether they dont want PPI or, thirdly, 
whether they already have PPI with another provider. I can see that Mr and Mrs Hs form has 
a tick asking for details of accident, sickness and unemployment PPI, and their signatures 
appear immediately below. So, at the time, it does seem they were aware they had a choice, 
even if now they dont remember that. 
And Ive also seen the form where they actually made the PPI application, setting out how 
much cover was needed. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs H as being particularly suited to their 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It 
would have been for Mr and Mrs H to decide whether it was suitable.  But even if it had 
made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an appropriate one in their 
circumstances at the time. Finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr and Mrs H received 
any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits 
in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when they would need 
to fall back on any savings or other means they may have had for paying the mortgage and 
other living costs. This all would have put Mr and Mrs H in a more secure position, if theyd 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been told 
anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out.
It looks as though Nationwide explained the costs of the PPI. 
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have been affected by any of these. And theyd be paying for it 
monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 May 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman