DRN-1313805
 
The complaint
 Mrs A says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs A bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a loan. The loan included an 
amount to pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint because:
I think its likely that Lloyds made Mrs A aware the PPI was optional and that she 
chose to take it out. Mrs A says she didnt know the PPI had been added to her 
account, and that she wouldnt have agreed to buy it. Ive noted everything Mrs A has 
said. The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mrs A 
and Lloyds when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place 
over twenty years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over 
time. Lloyds no longer has a copy of Mrs A's loan agreement, which isnt surprising 
given the amount of time thats passed since she arranged the borrowing. But Lloyds 
has provided a sample of the loan documentation that was in use when Mrs A took 
out her loan. The PPI is listed on the document as Optional Loan Repayment 
Protection. The loan agreement also included a section about PPI which was 
headed Optional Loan Repayment Protection. Mrs A wouldve had to tick a Yes or 
No box to show whether or not she wanted the cover. So from what Ive seen, on 
balance I think Lloyds wouldve made Mrs A aware she had a choice about buying 
the PPI. Although I accept its possible PPI wasnt discussed when the loan was 
arranged, its equally likely that it was  although I can understand why Mrs A may no 
longer remember this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs A, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs A says she was 
entitled to sick pay from her employer, but the policy wouldve paid out in addition to 
her employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. So I think the policy 
would've provided a useful benefit for Mrs A. I think Lloyds could have explained the cost of the policy better than it did. Thats 
because I think its unlikely that Lloyds set out how much interest Mrs A would be 
paying on the amount she was borrowing for the PPI. But even if Lloyds had pointed 
out the interest to Mrs A, I think she wouldve still bought the PPI. I say this because 
the interest was about £42. As this was a relatively small amount, I dont think having 
details about the interest payable on the loan wouldve altered Mrs As decision to 
buy the PPI.
Mrs A would have received a limited refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the 
policy early. I dont know if Lloyds thought about this when it recommended the policy 
or explained the situation clearly to Mrs A. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that at 
the time Mrs A arranged the loan she thought she would repay it early. So I dont 
think this made the policy unsuitable or better information about this wouldve 
stopped her buying it.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs A would have been affected by any of these.
 
When I take all of these points into account, overall Im not persuaded that the policy was 
mis-sold. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman