DRN-4163298
The complaint
Mr D complains about the actions of Lowell Financial Ltd when it took over the management 
of a debt.
What happened
Mr D complained to Lowell because he felt the Notice of Assignment (NOA) letters appeared 
to have been sent by the original lender, but he says he found out the letters had actually 
been sent by Lowell  and he says the original lender had no knowledge of the letters being 
sent or the debt being sold.
Mr D also complained about a phone call he had with Lowell. Saying that he was given 
conflicting information on the phone about the new owner of the debt.
Lowell responded to Mr Ds complaint to confirm who the new legal owner of the debt was, 
and that Lowell had been instructed to manage the debt on behalf of the debt owner. It also 
explained that the letter attached to the NOA had been written by Lowell, but under the 
guidance and consent of the original lender  so it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
However, it did offer to pay Mr D £50 because it agreed he was told on the phone that the 
letter was sent by the original lender when it had been sent by Lowell. 
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. They didnt think Lowell had done anything 
wrong and explained they werent aware of any rules that prevented Lowell from sending a 
response on behalf of the original lender. The also thought the £50 Lowell paid Mr D for the 
misinformation in the phone call was sufficient.
Mr D responded to the Investigator to say that it wasnt clear from the information he 
received which part of Lowell his debt had been sold to. He said he doesnt think it is right 
that the debt is purchased by Lowell Group and given to a different area of the group to 
manage. However, the Investigator explained that they still didnt change the outcome of Mr 
Ds complaint. 
Mr D didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything on file, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. 
Mr D has raised a very similar complaint with this service previously  where an 
Ombudsman decided on the issue. The previous Ombudsman explained:
Mr D feels Lowell Financial shouldnt have sent the original lenders NOA, but Im not aware
of any rule or regulation that says it cant take that step. Lowell Financial has confirmed there
is an arrangement with the original owner of the debt that means it will send out the NOAs
together. Thats a step its entitled to take.
Both NOAs explains that the new debt owner is [name of debt owner removed] and that 
Lowell Financial Ltd would be the business administering it and contacting Mr D. Im satisfied 
the NOA dated 15 October 2019 clearly explains the new arrangement and what Mr D 
needed to do.
Mr D has asked Lowell Financial to send him evidence that the original lender has agreed to
allow it to send NOAs out on its behalf. But I wouldnt expect Lowell Financial to send its
customers copies of correspondence between it and the original lender detailing the
arrangements between them. Im satisfied that Lowell Financial has now correctly explained
why it sent Mr D the original lenders NOA.
Mr D says he remains concerned that [name of debt owner removed] isnt the owner of the 
debt. I appreciate Mr Ds concerns, but Im satisfied the evidence Ive seen shows the debt 
was acquired by [name of debt owner removed] on 23 September 2018 and that it is the 
owner.
While I accept this is a different case, the circumstances are similar. And I agree with the 
comments the Ombudsman has made here. 
I can see a NOA was sent to Mr D in relation to these accounts on 22 September 2022 and 
23 September 2022. The letter sent by Lowell on behalf of the original lender clearly states 
who the new owner of the debt is and that Lowell Financial would be managing the debt. 
While I understand this was sent by Lowell on behalf of the original owner, Im not aware of 
any rules which stipulate that it cant do this.
Its difficult to find that Mr D has suffered any distress or inconvenience here  especially 
given that he was already aware of Lowells process in relation to the NOA letter from the 
last decision he received on the matter. And that Ombudsman explained that the process it 
followed wasnt unreasonable. 
Lowell accepted that it had provided Mr D with incorrect information in a phone call and paid 
Mr D £50 to apologise. Given what Ive said about Mr D already having been aware of 
Lowells process here, I think its unlikely hes been overly inconvenienced or distressed by 
the information he got on the phone call. And the £50 Lowell has already paid Mr D is more 
than I would have awarded in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman