DRN-2914025
The complaint
O, a limited company, complains about the service received from First Data Europe Limited 
(First Data) when setting up a merchant account.
What happened
O needed a merchant account so it approached First Data in July 2020 to open one. It 
thought opening the account would take about a week and so also made arrangements 
around the account, namely with a booking platform. 
The merchant account wasnt opened as quickly as thought, so O complained about the 
delay and the inconvenience involved in the application process. And it complained itd been 
given incorrect information about a funding delay. 
First Data responded to complaint. It said it had made a mistake with the funding delay and 
apologised. O didnt think First Data had responded to the complaint in full. It asked our 
service for an independent review. It provided a detailed timeline about what had happened 
and set out the losses it viewed as stemming from First Datas failings.
Our investigator asked First Data for information to allow them to assess the complaint. First 
Data provided information about the funding delay information, but not much else. Our 
investigator provided First Data with further opportunities to provide the required information, 
but it didnt respond. 
Our investigator considered the information available to them and recommended the 
complaint should be upheld. He was persuaded, based on the limited information he had, 
that First Data had caused unnecessary delays and unnecessary inconvenience to O. And 
he accepted O had been misinformed about the funding delay. In the absence of compelling 
evidence about the losses O alleged it suffered as a result of First Datas failing he didnt 
think he could fairly ask it to pay those. But he thought First Data should pay O £200 
compensation to recognise the impact of the inconvenience O was caused.  
O was willing to accept the investigators recommendation but felt the inconvenience it had 
been caused warranted further compensation. First Data didnt respond. As an agreement 
couldnt be reached  in light of First Datas non-responses  the complaint was passed to 
me to decide. 
I reviewed the information and thought, based on the information available to me, £400 was 
fair and reasonable compensation to resolve this complaint. The investigator (on my behalf) 
shared my thoughts with First Data and gave it a further chance to respond with the 
information wed asked for. 
First Data didnt respond so I must now make a final decision to resolve this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im of the opinion this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
O has provided a detailed timeline of what happened. This sets out repeated delays, mixed 
messages regarding the required funding delay, a number of documentation revisions and, 
at times - lack of contact. And ultimately, after several months at something which should 
have only taken a matter of days, O opened an account elsewhere, meaning this matter 
didnt result in what they wanted with First Data, namely, a merchant account. 
First Data hasnt challenged what O has said. And what O has said doesnt appear to me to 
be obviously wrong, or materially exaggerated. It follows that in the absence of anything to 
the contrary I accept their version of events and - like the investigator - recognise the 
inconvenience this matter has caused it. And in my view, looking at things in the round, £400 
a fair and reasonable amount of compensation in these circumstances.
Like our investigator, I have considered Os alleged losses. But given theres no compelling 
evidence of them Im not going to ask First Data to pay those.
Putting things right
I direct First Data Europe Limited to pay O £400 compensation*. 
*First Data Europe Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it O accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require First Data Europe Limited to follow my direction as set 
out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman