DRN-3194672
The complaint
Miss C and Mr D complain about an insurance settlement offered by Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited (Lloyds). They want Lloyds to accept that their stolen item was genuine 
and to offer settlement on that basis.   
What happened
Miss C and Mr D suffered a break in at their home during which a number of items were 
stolen. 
They submitted a claim to their insurer, Lloyds. 
Most of their claim has been settled and does not form part of this complaint, but a dispute 
arose around Miss C and Mr Ds claim for a stolen Rolex watch. 
Mr D had purchased his watch second hand in a private sale around June 2009. He received 
some paperwork with the watch, but he kept this with the watch.
When looking at his claim, Lloyds asked Mr D to provide the serial number from the Rolex, in 
order to verify its authenticity. Mr D did not have this as the paperwork he had was kept with 
the watch and was also stolen. Mr D provided photographs of him wearing the watch, and 
some time later he provided evidence of the box. 
Lloyds declined to settle on the basis of a genuine Rolex as it was not satisfied with the 
evidence that had been provided. 
I previously asked Lloyds to review their file of evidence and, if it remained unsatisfied of the 
watch being genuine, to make an offer of settlement on the basis of an unbranded equivalent 
piece of jewellery. 
Lloyds has done this, and it has offered Miss C and Mr D a settlement for the watch of £369. 
Miss C and Mr D were unhappy with this and asked us to decide the matter. 
Our investigator has thoroughly investigated the complaint and has set out his 
comprehensive view to the parties. This was that Lloyds decision that it could not be 
satisfied that the watch was genuine was a reasonable decision on the evidence, and that 
the settlement offer for the watch was reasonable. He did, however, consider that Lloyds 
should refund to Miss C and Mr D the proportion of premiums that they had paid which 
represented cover for specified cover of a Rolex, since they have not had the benefit of 
specified cover for this item. 
Lloyds has not accepted that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed all the documentation provided and have specifically considered the 
information given in the policy booklet, and the comments of the appraising jewellers. 
The evidence provided by Lloyds shows that jewellers are unable to verify the authenticity of 
Mr Ds watch by photographs, and by the box  as this would only reach a view as to 
whether the box is genuine. The evidence from the jeweller is that they would need the serial 
number of the watch in order to verify its authenticity and that this appears to be the only 
information that they could accept.  
I accept that Lloyds is unable to authenticate the watch without this information, and so I 
think it reasonable that Lloyds offer settlement on the basis of a watch of the size and style 
as Mr D could demonstrate from the photographs, but without proof of being a genuine 
Rolex. On this basis I agree that the offer od settlement is reasonable. 
I do, however, also agree that Miss C and Mr D have paid increased premiums for cover 
from which they could not benefit. 
Reviewing the information given to Miss C and Mr D with their policy this details that they 
must be able to prove their loss and details some types of documentation which may be 
required. This does not detail that serial numbers for high risk high value items such as 
watches would be required, and I cannot see that Miss C and Mr D were ever asked for the 
serial number while the watch was in their possession. 
Miss C and Mr D have provided as much information as they could to Lloyds, and they do 
not appear to have known that the serial number would be crucial to a claim succeeding, at a 
time when they could have obtained it. They are not experts in high value watches, and I 
would expect it to be made clear to them by their insurers if any claim would rely entirely on 
once piece of information, at a time when they could act upon that information. 
I therefore agree that Miss C and Mr D paid their premiums, which included a proportion to 
represent the risk of cover for a Rolex, whilst unable to benefit from a claim for a Rolex. 
Lloyds has argued that it insured Miss C and Mr D in good faith on the basis that it was 
insuring a Rolex, and that it is down to the customer to understand what is required of them 
when making a claim. 
I accept that Lloyds provided insurance in good faith, and I consider that Miss C and Mr D 
have equally obtained cover in good faith. They provided all information which was 
requested of them when taking out and renewing their cover, yet have found themselves not 
covered for a genuine Rolex because information was not requested and provided.
For these reasons I partially uphold Miss C and Mr Ds complaint and think that Lloyds 
needs to do more to put things right.   
Putting things right
I think that the fair outcome is for Lloyds to refund the increased proportion of premiums 
which related to including a Rolex, for the duration of Miss C and Mr Ds cover with Lloyds. 
Lloyds should refund this to Miss C and Mr D, along with simple interest at a rate of 8% per 
year from the date of payment up to the date of settlement.   
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I partially uphold Miss C and Mr Ds complaint and direct 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to:
Refund to Miss C and Mr D the proportion of their premiums which related to cover 
for a Rolex watch. This should apply for the entire duration of cover with Lloyds; and
Add to that refund simple interest at a rate of 8% per year from the date of payment 
up to settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman