DRN-1924222
The complaint
Mrs and Mr T are unhappy with the way their policy is being run by ReAssure Limited. They 
are unhappy with the cost of the policy, unclear communication from ReAssure and that it 
cannot confirm how much this policy will cost them in the future. 
Mrs and Mr T have brought this complaint together but for ease Ill refer to both their actions 
as Mrs T. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He felt Mrs Ts whole of life 
policy was reviewable so ReAssure could change the cost of the policy during its periodic 
reviews. So, he said ReAssure increasing Mrs Ts premiums in 2019 was fair. He added that 
ReAssure didnt have to provide what the cost of the policy would be in the future or a 
breakdown explaining the costs involved in the increase of the new premium due to the 
commercially sensitive information this involved. 
Mrs T disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. She said she 
wanted a cost of her policy broken down by benefit which she is entitled to. She also wanted 
to know why ReAssure could review the cost of her policy annually as well as the periodic 
reviews which took place every five years. She added that she didnt think the annual 
reviews of the premium was transparent or fair and this wasnt explained to her when the 
policy was sold. She said she was unhappy with the amount ReAssure had also recently 
paid out for Mr Ts claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs T. But Id 
like to take some time to explain how Ive reached my decision. 
 
Ive read and considered the whole file, including further information from ReAssure and 
Mrs T. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any 
specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I 
dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
If Mrs T wants to complain about the sale, her husbands claim and his cover being 
separated these will need to be considered by ReAssure as a new complaint in the first 
instance. So, I havent considered that in this final decision.
 
Ive reviewed a copy of the original terms and conditions provided to me by ReAssure. Im 
satisfied these allow Reassure to send a notice every year on any variation of the premiums 
and that the premiums can be increased to meet the required level of charges and surrender 
value of Mrs Ts policy. 
This policy is reviewed after ten years and every five years after that point. The terms and 
conditions also allow for a change in the cost of cover on the policy anniversary so its also 
possible, according to the terms and conditions Ive seen, for the premiums to change every 
year. 
Ive considered if ReAssure is being unreasonable when not telling Mrs T what the cost of 
her policy will be over the next five years. Having done so, I dont think thats the case. Due 
to Mrs Ts cover having multiple benefits included and the cost of the policy taking into 
consideration commercially sensitive mortality and morbidity rates, it isnt possible to provide 
this information to her.
Mrs T is concerned that ReAssure reduced her benefit because she didnt confirm whether 
she wanted to increase her premiums whilst this issue was ongoing. I dont think that was an 
unreasonable action for ReAssure to take. Its role is to let Mrs T know about the current cost 
of her policy on a monthly basis in order to get the required benefit level. I accept it couldve 
communicated more clearly with Mrs T during this complaint when discussing how the cost 
of her policy was calculated. But ultimately the decision to increase the level of contributions 
is up to Mrs T. As she didnt agree to the increase in premiums, ReAssure was entitled to 
lower the sum assured.
 
Mrs T says she had a fund value of £2,500 in August 2019 but this has dropped by £500. 
She doesnt understand why it dropped and doesnt believe this is solely because of the 
change in the price of the units. But Im satisfied by ReAssures response that the policy 
charges and the changes in the bid price have led to a 20% reduction in the value of her 
fund. 
ReAssure has offered its apologies for the error it made when stating Mrs Ts critical illness 
cover was more expensive than her husband in 2015 and 2016. And it says it has already 
offered £200 compensation for the way this complaint has been handled. Having considered 
the issues that fall within this complaint, I think thats a fair offer. 
So, Im not going to ask ReAssure to do anything more here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2020. 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman