DRN-4342523
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that Capital One (Europe) plc wont refund transactions she says she 
didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
During a period of over two weeks in March 2023, Mrs Ls Capital One credit card and PIN 
were used for over £800 of spending. 
Mrs L reported this to Capital One. She initially confirmed that shed made some of the 
payments herself, but in later calls said that she hadnt used the card since she was abroad 
in January 2023, so all the spending since then was fraudulent. She kept her card in her 
bag, with the PIN written on the back. She lived alone, no one else had access to her card, 
and she confirmed repeatedly that no one close to her had used her card.
Capital One held Mrs L liable for the payments in dispute, as they were made in her local 
area at many of the usual places shed spent at herself, and Mrs L had been checking her 
account online while the payments were going on and wouldve seen them at the time.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs L 
appealed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, Capital One can hold Mrs L liable for the payments in dispute if the 
evidence suggests that she authorised them.
Im satisfied from Capital Ones technical evidence that the payments in dispute used 
Mrs Ls genuine card, and the correct PIN. So I can see that these transactions were 
properly authenticated. The question, then, is whether the evidence suggests that its most 
likely Mrs L consented to the transactions, or not.
First, Ive considered the possibility that the payments were made by someone who Mrs L 
did not know  such as a thief or fraudster. It is possible that someone could have stolen her 
card and used the PIN that she wrote on the back of it.
Mrs L kept this card in her bag along with other valuables. But she confirmed that nothing 
else was missing. And its not very likely that a thief would only take this card and not any of 
the other contents or even the bag as a whole. Its possible a thief might take just the card 
when it was outside the bag  e.g. when Mrs L last used it. But she said she last used it in 
January 2023 while on a different continent. So if a thief stole the card at that point, its 
exceptionally unlikely that theyd then wait around two months to use it, and that theyd 
happen to travel to the UK and use it near Mrs Ls home.
Following from that, I mightve expected a thief to try to take as much money as possible, as 
quickly as possible, before the card gets blocked. But here, the person using the card spent 
at a relatively moderate pace over the course of over two weeks, seemingly confident that 
Mrs L was not about to block it.
The person using the card did not check the balance before they spent a significant amount. 
And they stopped trying to use the card once Mrs L blocked it. This tends to indicate that 
they might have known how much was available and when Mrs L reported the card as lost  
which an unknown thief or fraudster would not have known.
So it does not seem very likely or plausible that an unknown party did this.
It is possible that someone known to Mrs L may have made the transactions without her 
permission, such as a friend or family member. But I dont think thats particularly likely 
either. Mrs L lived alone, and she confirmed repeatedly that no one close to her had used 
her card. So it seems that she effectively ruled out this possibility herself.
The final possibility Ive considered is that Mrs L either made the payments herself or gave 
someone else permission to make them.
This possibility fits very well with how the payments were made: over the course of over two 
weeks, near Mrs Ls home, at many of the places where she normally did her genuine 
spending. And in her initial call with Capital One, Mrs L did say she recognised some of the 
now-disputed payments and confirmed some of it as being her own spending.
Mrs L repeatedly checked her account online while the disputed payments were being made. 
She said she only did this to make payments, but I can see she did not make any payments 
on those occasions. Its unlikely that Mrs L would check her account so frequently if she 
hadnt used it since the January. And its unlikely she wouldnt notice her card was missing 
for such a long time if she was otherwise actively keeping tabs on the account. But perhaps 
most importantly, Mrs L would have seen her cards balance increasing significantly each 
time she signed in, yet she didnt tell Capital One anything was wrong until the spending 
stopped. It is not likely or plausible that Mrs L would wait so long to report the disputed 
payments if they were made without her consent.
Ive also not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Mrs L 
couldve authorised these payments or given someone else permission to make them.
I appreciate why Mrs L would like to see CCTV footage. Such footage is only kept for about 
a month, so its much too late to get that now. And even if it was still available, it wouldve 
only shown what the person making the transactions looked like. It would not have shown 
whether they had Mrs Ls permission or not. And as I explained above, based on the 
evidence its unlikely that the payments were made without Mrs Ls consent.In summary, its not very likely or plausible that an unknown person made these payments, 
or that someone known to Mrs L did this without her permission. But it does seem both likely 
and plausible that the payments were made with Mrs Ls consent. So it seems fair for Capital 
One to decline a refund in this case. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its 
a difficult message for Mrs L to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of 
probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
Lastly, I do appreciate that Mrs L found it frustrating dealing with Capital One. Ive listened to 
her calls, and did not find anything particularly inappropriate or unreasonable in the way 
Capital One dealt with her. And while I understand she wouldve liked things to happen 
faster, Capital One did deal with the matter within a reasonable time. So Ive not found that 
they did anything which would warrant an award of compensation in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman