DRN-1585389
 
Complaint 
Mr Ws complaint is that his motor insurance policy renewed by his broker Be Wiser 
Insurance Services Ltd, despite him telling them he didnt want it to be automatically 
renewed. Hes unhappy that hes paid premiums for a policy that he didnt want.
Background
On 1 April 2019, Mr W called Be Wiser to discuss his policy. He told the call handler he 
didnt want the policy to be renewed. He was told that as he was not in the renewal period 
this couldnt be processed. And he would have to wait until the renewal cycle started to 
confirm he didnt want the policy to continue. 
On 16 April, Be Wiser sent Mr W an email with details about the renewal of his policy. A 
further email on 29 April was sent to Mr W, which said the policy would auto renew and 
nothing was needed from him for his cover to continue. As Be Wiser didnt hear from Mr W 
the policy renewed on 9 May. 
On the 17 June, Mr W contacted Be Wiser after noticing his bank account had been debited 
two payments. He asked for the policy to be cancelled from the start and any money hed 
paid, be returned as he no longer had the insured vehicle. Be Wiser cancelled the policy on 
24 June but said that Mr W needed to pay an outstanding balance that was due. They also 
said, if Mr W could provide proof of sale of vehicle, they would ask the underwriter to 
backdate the cancellation of his policy.
Unhappy with what Be Wiser said, Mr W raised a complaint. Be Wiser said they had 
attempted to contact Mr W and sent him letters via email about his renewal. They also said 
he was sent confirmation of his policy documents once his policy had automatically renewed. 
Mr W said he had changed email address, so didnt receive the emails. As a gesture of 
goodwill, Be Wiser agreed to waive their charges to the cancellation that applied to the 
policy, which resulted in the outstanding balance due being reduced. But they still said Mr W 
needed to pay this. 
Mr W wasnt happy with the response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into the complaint. She thought that Be Wiser had acted reasonably 
in the circumstances. Mr W didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
Mr W raised the following points:
He had no intention of renewing the insurance and this is clear in the recording of the 
telephone call he had with Be Wiser. He didnt express any consent or approval for a 
new contract.
The vehicle was transferred to a garage, which has commercial insurance to cover 
the vehicle. The vehicle wasnt in his possession from April 2019, so there was no 
reason for him to renew the insurance. Be Wisers assertion that the only email address it had on file was his old work email 
address is untrue. When he cancelled his direct debit, he received an email from Be 
wiser on 7 June 2019 to his personal email address.
 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says Be Wiser renewed his policy without his consent and that he only found out about 
it a few months later when he discovered premium payments being taken from his account. 
In general terms, I dont think its wrong for a broker or an insurer to set up a policy to 
automatically renew - provided its clearly explained it will do this to the customer. There are 
potentially serious consequences for driving uninsured. So by automatically renewing, it can 
help protect customers from the risks of driving uninsured because their policy has expired.
Ive considered whether Be Wiser made Mr W sufficiently aware of the automatic renewal 
and gave him enough information about how to cancel. I can see that when he took out the 
policy in 2018, Be Wiser sent him their Terms of Business. That says under the heading 
Renewals:
If you elect to pay for your policy by direct debit the renewal advice will confirm the new 
monthly instalments. These will be taken by direct debit and the policy will automatically 
renew unless we receive your advice to lapse the policy.
Mr W was paying for his policy by direct debit. So I think he was given enough information to 
understand that the policy had been set up to automatically renew. 
Mr W says during a telephone call on 1 April 2019, he told Be Wiser that he didnt want the 
policy to be renewed. Ive listened to a recording of that call. I agree that Mr W did ask for 
the policy not to be renewed. The call handler responded by saying that it wasnt possible to 
accept the instruction as Mr Ws policy wasnt in the renewal cycle. The call handler said she 
would make a note but couldnt guarantee the instruction would be acted on. She said that 
Mr W would need to wait till he got the renewal documents sent to him and at this point he 
could confirm he didnt want to continue with the insurance. Mr W accepted the explanation. 
So I think Mr W was aware that his request for the policy not to be renewed hadnt been 
processed during this call. 
Later in April 2019, Be Wiser did go on to send renewal information to Mr W. Again, Ive 
reviewed this and am satisfied it gave clear instruction of what Mr W needed to do if he didnt 
want the policy to renew. Mr W didnt respond, so the policy was renewed as explained in 
the documentation. 
Mr W says he didnt receive the emails about the renewal from Be Wiser as they were sent 
to an old email address. The renewal information was sent to the address Mr W provided 
when he first took out the policy. He says this was an old work address and he did provide 
his current email address to Be Wiser. Be Wiser say the only address they held at the time 
of the renewal was the original address. 
Mr W has provided some evidence that he believes supports that Be Wiser were aware of 
his current address. He has sent a copy of an email from Be Wiser to his current address 
(dated from June 2019) confirming the cancellation of the policy. As this was dated after the 
renewal documents were sent, I dont think it is strong evidence to support that Be Wiser were aware of the new address when it sent the renewal information in April 2019. Mr W 
forwarded a second email from the company that provided the credit to pay  for the 
insurance. This was sent to his current email address and is dated from January 2019, 
before the renewal. However, the credit provider is a completely separate company to Be 
Wiser. Be Wiser have confirmed that the credit provider didnt give them any information 
about a new email address for Mr W.  So again I dont think this is strong evidence that Mr W 
told Be Wiser about a change to his email address. 
Based on this, I dont think Be Wiser have acted incorrectly by sending the renewal 
information to the Mr Ws old email address. The balance of evidence doesnt support that 
Mr W informed them that this wasnt the correct address. So I dont find that Be Wiser are 
responsible for Mr W not receiving the renewal information. 
Finally, Be Wiser has said they would ask the insurer to backdate the cancellation if Mr W 
could provide evidence that he no longer owned the car and it was insured by someone else. 
He initially said he sold the car but has since clarified that he gave it to a garage. Im 
satisfied Mr W has been given sufficient time to provide this evidence. He has sent some 
evidence to support that he no longer has the vehicle. However, this shows that the 
ownership of the vehicle was transferred in July 2019, which is after the renewal  and after 
the policy was cancelled. So I dont think this helps show the vehicle was owned and insured 
by someone else when the insurance renewed. Mr W says he hasnt had the vehicle since 
April. But he hasnt been able to provide any evidence that the vehicle was insured by 
someone else at the time of renewal. 
I understand that Mr W will be disappointed but, for the reasons above, I dont think the 
available evidence supports that Be Wiser have caused him a loss. As a gesture of goodwill 
it has waived the cancellation charges it applies, this seem fair and reasonable to do. I dont 
think it needs to do anything further.  
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman