DRN-4456762
The complaint
Mrs G complains about Great Lakes Insurance SEs actions when she told it about a change 
in health under her travel insurance policy. 
All references to Great Lakes include the agents appointed to handle claims and complaints 
on its behalf. 
What happened
Mrs G took out an annual travel insurance policy provided by Great Lakes, declaring a 
number of medical conditions and paying a premium of £1,151.99. 
A few months later, Mrs G declared a new medical condition to Great Lakes as well as 
another medical diagnosis which required further investigations. After some confusion 
surrounding what medical conditions Great Lakes would cover and whether it required an 
additional premium, Great Lakes offered Mrs G the following options:
to cancel an upcoming holiday and submit a cancellation claim;
to cancel the policy and receive a pro-rata refund of the premium paid;
to keep the policy but travel without cover for anything related to either medical 
condition.  
Great Lakes also said, if Mrs G could find alternative travel insurance elsewhere, she could 
submit a claim for the cost of a new single-trip policy up to the value of what a holiday 
cancellation claim would have been, but that a policy excess would be applicable. 
Mrs G subsequently paid £1,472.49 for an alternative single-trip travel insurance policy. Mrs 
G said she wanted a full refund of the premium of £1,151.99 which shed paid for the original 
annual policy, but Great Lakes said it would only provide a pro-rata refund of £805.06 from 
the date it had been notified of the changes in Mrs Gs health. 
Unhappy, Mrs G brought the matter to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she thought it would be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Great Lakes to refund Mrs G for the cost of her 
new single-trip policy up the value of what a cancellation claim for her pre-booked holiday 
would have been, without deducting an excess.
Mrs G agreed with our investigators opinion, but Great Lakes didnt accept the investigators 
findings about the application of an excess.  As no resolution was reached, Mrs Gs 
complaint has now been referred to me as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant regulatory rules and what I consider to be good industry 
practice when making my final decision about Mrs Gs complaint. 
Mrs Gs policy, like most - if not all - travel insurance policies on the market, allows Great 
Lakes to amend or withdraw cover under the policy in certain circumstances if a policyholder 
experiences a change in their health during the term of the contract. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs Gs policy, at page 4, set out a number of things which 
might happen if a policyholder declares a change in health to Great Lakes after purchasing 
the policy, as Mrs G did here. One of these is that the policyholder can make a cancellation 
claim for any pre-booked trips under Section 1. The policy is silent on what happens if a 
policyholder chooses not to cancel any pre-booked holidays and obtains single-trip travel 
insurance cover elsewhere instead. 
Its not in dispute that it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Great Lakes to 
pay for the cost of Mrs Gs new single-trip travel insurance policy. This is in line with our 
services longstanding, published approach to complaints of this nature. What is in dispute is 
whether its fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Great Lakes to apply an excess to 
the payment to be made to Mrs G. I dont think it is, and Ill explain why. 
If Mrs G had cancelled her trip and made a claim for her irrecoverable travel costs then 
theres no doubt that Great Lakes would be entitled to deduct an excess from any 
cancellation claim payment due to her. But thats not what happened. Mrs G didnt wish to 
cancel her trip and instead purchased a single-trip travel insurance policy so she could 
continue with her holiday plans. 
Great Lakes, by covering the cost of Mrs Gs new insurance, isnt paying a cancellation  or 
any other - claim under the terms and conditions of her annual travel insurance policy. I dont 
agree with Great Lakes stance that paying for Mrs Gs new policy clearly constitutes a claim, 
as theres no section of Mrs Gs annual policy which provides cover for the cost of new travel 
insurance if the existing policy is withdraw by Great Lakes. Instead, I think Great Lakes is 
paying for Mrs Gs new policy in lieu of what its exposure to a cancellation claim under the 
policy would otherwise have been. 
Ive seen evidence that Mrs Gs trip cost a total of £7,998. Ive enclosed a copy of this 
evidence with my final decision for Great Lakes to see. Ive also seen confirmation that Mrs 
Gs new single trip policy cost £1,472.49. Ive also enclosed evidence of this with my final 
decision for Great Lakes to see. Based on the evidence available to me, Im satisfied that 
Great Lakes financial liability is likely to have been significantly greater if Mrs G had chosen 
to cancel her trip instead of seeking new insurance cover elsewhere. In these 
circumstances, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Great Lakes to seek to reduce its 
financial exposure even further by attempting to apply an excess of £65 to a payment which 
is being made in lieu of a cancellation claim. 
I understand that Great Lakes, when communicating with Mrs G about this matter, told her it 
would apply an excess. But it doesnt automatically follow that its fair and reasonable for 
Great Lakes to do so. And I also dont think the fact that Mrs G didnt purchase an excess 
waiver means its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to apply an excess, when I dont think 
Mrs G is making a claim under the terms and conditions of the annual insurance policy. 
Overall, based on the individual circumstances of this case, Im satisfied that it would be fair 
and reasonable for Great Lakes to refund Mrs G the premium she paid for the single-trip 
insurance policy without deducting an excess. For the avoidance of doubt, Mrs G isnt also entitled to a refund of any of the premium she 
paid to Great Lakes for the annual insurance policy. Mrs G had the benefit of cover under 
the original policy from the date of purchase until the date she notified Great Lakes about her 
changes in health regardless of whether or not any claims were made, and the premium Mrs 
G paid to Great Lakes is the minimum amount of money shed always need to have paid to 
secure insurance cover for her trip. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes Insurance SE must put things right by refunding Mrs G for the cost of her 
single-trip travel insurance policy, together with interest at 8% simple per annum from the 
date Mrs G bought the single-trip policy until the date the settlement is paid1. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE and I 
direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
1 If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs G how much it has taken off. It should also give Mrs G 
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 