DRN-3931077
The complaint
Mr D complains that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) declined a claim on his home insurance for 
damage to a gable wall during a storm.
QIC used a third party company to handle Mr Ds claim and most of his correspondence has 
been with this company rather than directly with QIC. For the avoidance of doubt, any 
reference to QIC includes its agents, including the claims handling company.
What happened
Mr D had a QIC home insurance policy. In January 2022, during storm Malik, part of the 
outer wall at the gable end of his home collapsed. This left the inner skin of his home 
exposed. The falling bricks also badly damaged a parked car. Mr D contacted QIC to make a 
claim on his insurance. In the meantime, Mr D had to arrange alternative accommodation 
because there was a danger his home was structurally unsound.
QICs surveyor inspected the damage on 31 January 2022. Based on the surveyors report, 
QIC declined the claim. It told Mr D the damage to the wall was caused primarily by wear 
and tear rather than the storm. QIC said this meant the damage to the gable wall wasnt 
covered by his policy.
Mr D was unhappy with this. He instructed his own expert to assess the damage and sent 
QIC his experts report. QIC wouldnt change its decision, so Mr D brought his complaint to 
this service. He wants QIC to settle his claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. She reviewed 
the expert reports and was more persuaded by QICs experts assessment of the damage  
that issues with the wall ties compromised the walls integrity and this structural weakness 
was exposed by the storm. She agreed with QIC that this wasnt covered by Mr Ds policy, 
so she didnt think it was unreasonable for QIC to decline the claim.
Mr D disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 19 January 2023. I said:
Like most polices, Mr Ds cover only makes QIC liable for damage caused by certain 
insured events. The damage needs to be caused by one of the insured events listed in his 
policy. 
Section 1.3 of Mr Ds policy booklet shows hes covered for loss or damage caused by a 
storm. The policy booklet defines a storm as a period of violent weather typified by, among 
other things, a gale of Force 10 or above (as defined under the internationally recognised 
Beaufort Scale) reaching wind speeds of at least 55mph. 
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions we ask: 
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
2. Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no the claim wont succeed.
First, both parties accept there was a storm. Local weather records for the area where Mr D 
lives show wind speeds of over 70mph on 29 January 2022. The Met Offices information for 
the 2021/22 storm season shows that this was storm Malik, which hit the UK that day. 
Second, I think most people would accept that a storm could cause significant damage to a 
wall. And given the section of Mr Ds gable wall collapsed during storm Malik, I think its 
reasonable for me to consider whether the storm was the main cause of the damage.
That means the last question is key: were the storm conditions the main cause of the 
damage? Both Mr D and QIC have relied on expert reports to support their view. Theyve 
also provided detailed responses to points raised by the other party. Ive read all these 
documents carefully, but I dont think I need to comment on each to reach the right outcome. 
Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues in the experts reports and 
summarised these below.
QICs surveyor report
QICs surveyor inspected the damage on 31 January 2022.
He concluded: looking at the top of the gable the wall ties are shorter in length, 
and viewing the wall ties they look to have corroded and failed and pulled out of the 
External brickwork. 
He also said: I would not expect a double skin wall that is tied in to the roof, joists 
and internal brickwork to be affected or be blown over in high winds.
Mr Ds expert report
Mr Ds expert inspected the damage on 8 February 2022.
He didnt find any evidence of wall tie corrosion failure and refuted QICs surveyors 
conclusion that this was the reason the wall collapsed.
Instead, he believed the storm winds provid[ed] a suction on the gable wall causing 
the mortar bond (as there was no key) around the ties to fail.
He referenced the July 2021 HomeBuyers Report which identified no issues with the 
gable wall.
QICs review of Mr D report
A second QIC surveyor reviewed Mr Ds report on or around 28 February 2022. He based 
his findings on his review of more than 30 photos of the damage.
He agreed with Mr Ds expert that wall tie corrosion wasnt the cause of collapse.
He said: The failure is due to insufficient resisting ability due to failed/lack of key/tie 
between the ends of cross cavity ties into the mortar joints of the brickwork it is 
holding in place. 
He noted the clean separation pattern of the bricks that fell on Mr Ds car. He said 
this showed a progressive decline in the mortar and its ability to adhere to bricks.He concluded: while this matter occurred during the course of a named storm 
constructional defects regarding number of ties, their type, the integrity of the wall 
and its ability to become part of a coherent system, was both aged and flawed.
Ive thought about this very carefully but overall Im not persuaded by QICs evidence. It 
originally declined the claim because its surveyor said the wall ties were corroded. When 
challenged on this, its second surveyor agreed with Mr Ds expert that this was clearly not 
the case. Instead, he said the structural integrity of the wall had become compromised due 
to age-related wear and tear. 
I think Mr Ds expert is more persuasive. He closely examined exposed brickwork and rubble 
and, having found no evidence of wall tie corrosion, concluded that the storm winds caused 
the mortar bonds around the wall ties to fail. QICs second surveyor, on the other hand, 
studied the first surveyors photos and decided the mortar had deteriorated to such an extent 
that the gable wall had become unsound. While I accept that desk-based reviews can be 
valuable, I think Mr Ds experts on-site inspection carries more weight in this case. Mr D has 
also pointed out that QICs second surveyor seems to suggest the gable wall  built almost 
100 years ago  should be assessed against modern building requirements. I agree with him 
that this isnt fair or reasonable. On balance, Im satisfied that the storm was the main cause 
of damage.
But even if I did accept QICs second surveyors opinion that the collapse was due to an 
underlying structural failure, I dont see how Mr D could have been expected to know there 
might have been a problem.  He moved into the house just three months before the storm. 
As part of the purchase process, he commissioned a HomeBuyers Report, dated 23 July 
2021. This included an assessment of the gable wall, quoted in his experts report:
The walls are of solid and cavity masonry construction. The property has been 
affected by past structural movement [however] the movement appears to be long-
standing and does not appear to be progressive. At present, the property shows no 
obvious signs of damage.
QIC will be aware of this services general approach in cases like this. Theres nothing in the 
HomeBuyers Report  or in either of the two reports by QICs surveyors  that suggest Mr D 
could have known there was any issue with the integrity of the gable wall. Theres also no 
suggestion that Mr D failed to take reasonable steps to maintain the wall. In the 
circumstances, I dont think Mr D could have done anything more to protect the wall. So 
even if I thought QICs assessment of the damage was correct, I think it would be unfair for 
QIC to rely on a gradual deterioration exclusion to decline Mr Ds claim.
For the reasons above, I dont think QIC acted fairly when it declined Mr Ds claim. Based on 
the evidence Ive seen, I intend to uphold the complaint. I think QIC should settle Mr Ds 
claim for damage to the gable wall, and for any consequential damage and losses in 
incurred because of the storm. For example, Mr Ds temporary accommodation costs as well 
as the cost of his expert report. QIC should add 8% interest to these amounts. Id be grateful 
if Mr D would list any other costs he believes QIC should cover when he replies to this 
provisional decision.
Finally, its clear that QICs handling of his claim has caused Mr D some distress. I think QIC 
should pay Mr D £300 to reflect this.
Responses to my provisional decision
QIC didnt accept my provisional decision. It said, in summary:While its second surveyor didnt agree with QICs first surveyors conclusion that the 
wall ties had corroded and disintegrated, he did agree the wall ties were the cause of 
the damage.
His report said: the failure is due to insufficient resisting ability due to failed/lack of 
key/tie between the ends of cross cavity ties into the mortar joints of the brickwork it 
is holding in place.
In his opinion, the wall ties failed because of the way they were installed, and this 
failure was the direct cause of the gable collapse.
QIC noted its surveyors experience and qualifications and said it would welcome Mr 
Ds experts comments on his findings. 
Mr D accepted my provisional decision. He sent us a list of his repair costs (plus financing 
fee) as well as his additional expenses. These expenses cover: alternative accommodation 
while his home was made safe; related living expenses during this period; the cost of his 
structural engineers inspection, report, visits, and certification of works. Mr D also told us he 
would ask QIC to cover the cost of repairing his driveway, which was damaged by the fallen 
bricks. He said he hadnt got quotes for this work yet.
Finally, he asked me to note that QICs surveyor inspected the damage on 2 February 2022, 
not 31 January.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I respect QICs second surveyors experience and qualifications. However, Mr Ds expert is 
also extremely well qualified, and he has a different opinion. In these cases I must weigh up 
the views of both experts and decide, on the balance of probabilities, whose opinion is more 
likely to be correct. On balance, I favour the opinion of Mr Ds expert. I explained why in my 
provisional decision and my reasons for this havent changed.
I accept QICs point that it would have been helpful if Mr Ds expert had commented on its 
second surveyors findings. However, I understand why Mr D didnt want to incur yet another 
expense. In any case, Im satisfied I have enough information to make a decision. 
I explained in my provisional decision why I thought Mr D couldnt have known there might 
have been a problem with his gable wall, and why this meant QIC should have accepted his 
claim. QIC didnt comment on this. In the circumstances, I see no reason to change my 
decision that QIC should settle Mr Ds claim for the collapsed gable.
Mr D has questioned the date of QICs surveyors visit. His report and QICs final response 
give the date of this inspection as 31 January 2022, however this doesnt affect my decision.
My D has listed his additional expenses. I dont think QIC has seen all of these before and 
Im conscious that I havent seen invoices for these so cant validate them. So I dont think it 
would be fair for me to order QIC to pay these without it having the chance to review them. 
Im simply going to require QIC to ask Mr D for a breakdown of these costs  plus any 
evidence he has for them  review and settle in line with the remaining policy terms.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and require QIC Europe Limited to:
Settle Mr Ds claim in line with the policy settlement terms.Pay Mr Ds consequential costs in line with the remaining policy terms.
QIC should add interest to these amounts at 8% per annum from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr D £300 to reflect the distress QICs handling of his claim has caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman