DRN-1835064
The complaint
Mr A complains that he was mis-sold a finance agreement by BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited.
What happened
Mr A has had a number of finance agreements with BMWFS.
In March 2012 he was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. The annual 
mileage allowance was 8000 miles. The agreement ended in September 2014 when Mr a 
sold the car back to the dealership and the dealership settled the finance. However, the 
value of the car didnt cover the amount outstanding under the finance agreement, so Mr A 
had to take out a personal loan for around £5900 to cover the negative equity.
In September 2014 Mr A was supplied with another car under a hire purchase agreement. 
The annual mileage allowance was 8000 miles. The agreement ended in August 2017 when 
Mr A sold the car back to the dealership. Again, the value of the car didnt cover the amount 
outstanding under the finance agreement, so Mr A had to take out a personal loan for 
around £3700 to cover the negative equity.
In July 2017 Mr A entered into anther hire purchase agreement with an annual mileage 
allowance of 15,000. This agreement is ongoing.
Mr A says the dealership limited the mileage under his agreements to keep the car 
affordable. He says he wasnt told that the mileage had been set so low. He also says the 
dealer encouraged him to change the car but didnt explain the financial implications of doing 
so.
In response BMWFS said it didnt agree that the agreements had been mis-sold because Mr 
A had signed them to say he agreed with the terms and conditions, including the mileage. It 
offered to go 50/50 with Mr A on the settlement of his personal loan, leaving him with 
£988.56 to pay.
Mr A remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the mileage allowance was clearly 
shown in the agreements and that Mr A hadnt queried this at the time. She said that Mr A 
knew - or ought to have known  that 8000 miles wasnt sufficient for his needs. She didnt 
think there was any evidence that the agreements had been mis-sold.
Mr A didnt agree. He said hed been told by the dealer that his best option to reduce the 
impact of the negative equity was to change the car. He says he wasnt offered any financial 
advice or information about his other options.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to be persuaded that the hire purchase agreements were mis-sold, Id need to be 
satisfied that the dealership made an untrue statement of fact which induced Mr A into 
entering the agreement. 
There arent any notes of the discussions between Mr A and the dealership and because I 
wasnt present, I cant be certain of exactly what was said. Ive looked at the 
contemporaneous documents and taken into account the wider circumstances of the case to 
decide whats most likely to have happened.
The agreements clearly show the annual mileage allowance. Mr A has signed the 
agreements to confirm that he agrees with the terms and conditions. Id expect Mr A to have 
read the agreements before he signed them so I think he would have been aware of the 
mileage allowance. If hed been at all unhappy about the mileage, I think he had the 
opportunity to raise this at the time. Theres no evidence that he questioned it either before 
or soon after signing the agreements.
Mr A has said that the dealership encouraged him to change cars to deal with the negative 
equity. I can see that Mr A changed his cars relatively regularly. But I cant be certain of the 
reason why he did this. Its possible that the dealership encouraged him to do so. But its 
equally possible that Mr A simply wanted to change car for something more suitable for his 
needs.
Mr A has expressed concern that he wasnt advised that changing  the car would impact on 
the negative equity. Ive thought about this but theres nothing to suggest that the mere fact 
of changing the car affected the equity. Negative equity can be caused by a number of 
factors including mileage, condition of the car and market value. I dont think I can fairly say 
that BMWFS was responsible for creating negative equity in the car. And theres no 
evidence to suggest that the negative equity situation would have been any different had Mr 
A kept the car until the end of the term.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the agreements were mis-sold or 
misrepresented to Mr A. I think the offer by BMWFS to meet 50% of the personal loan 
settlement is fair and reasonable and I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman