DRN-3792023
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ts settlement offer for their outstanding loan debt was rejected in 2015 by 
Landmark Mortgages Limited trading as NRAM. They complain that Landmark secretly 
decided it would accept a higher offer, which they couldve afforded, but never told them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T said theyd offered to pay 10% of their outstanding debt to Landmark in 2015, 
as a full and final settlement. That was rejected, and Landmark continued to receive small 
regular payments towards this debt, managed for Mr and Mrs T by a debt support charity. 
Mr and Mrs T said that in late 2019, they put in a data subject access request (DSAR) to 
see all of the information that Landmark held about them. And they said they only found out 
then that Landmark had put a note on their account in 2015 saying it would accept £15,000 
as a settlement figure. But they said Landmark never told them this. So they kept paying 
their monthly payments, amounting to £6470.92, up to February 2022 when they reviewed 
the DSAR documents, found this note on their file and paid £15,000 to settle their debt. 
Mr and Mrs T said they could have afforded to pay £15,000 back in 2015, because they had 
more than that in savings then. Theyd paid £12,838.72 in total because of this debt since 
(made up of payments to the debt itself, and payments to lawyers about the debt). They 
didnt see why they should lose this level of money because of Landmarks failings. 
Mr and Mrs T said theyd complained about this to Landmark, but it just said its processes 
wouldnt have allowed it to make a counter offer. Mr and Mrs T said that if Landmark could 
have noted this on their file, it could also have sent a letter saying the same thing. And they 
said the income and expenditure information they had given to Landmark showed they had 
more than this amount in savings. 
Mr and Mrs T said that Landmark had also claimed it could have discussed an offer if theyd 
answered the calls it was making around that time. Mr and Mrs T said this contradicted what 
Landmark had said about not making an offer. And they also said Landmark shouldnt have 
been calling, because Mr T had been in a debt management plan for two years by then. So 
they said Landmark had no reason to be calling, it was just harassment.
Landmark said its note was an internal message, which only said it would review an offer of 
£15,000.00, not that it would accept that amount. Landmark said the note just told its agents 
whether or not to refer any further offer for consideration, if Mr and Mrs T made one.
Landmark said Mr and Mrs T had offered £4,143 in 2015. It said it would usually expect that 
an offer in full and final settlement would be the most someone could afford. It wouldnt have 
expected that Mr and Mrs T would have more than three times that amount available.
Landmark said that although it didnt have a process for counter-offers, it did make several 
calls to Mr and Mrs T after this incident, which were not answered. Landmark said that if Mr 
or Mrs T had answered the calls, then any settlement could have been discussed more.
When Landmark wrote to our service, it also said it didnt feel it would have been reasonable 
to pressure Mr and Mrs T to try and accumulate £15,000 at the time, particularly as that 
amount may not even have been accepted even if it had been offered. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Landmark wasnt 
required to go back with an offer or negotiate after Mr and Mrs T made their offer in 2015. 
She didnt think Landmark would have considered Mr and Mrs T could afford an offer of the 
size that it would consider. 
Mr and Mrs T disagreed. They said theyd been advised that Landmark should have told 
them the amount it would accept, as it had sent a letter, and noted this on their account. 
They felt that Landmark had been misleading in its own interest. Mr and Mrs T wanted their 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Before I begin, Id like to briefly summarise the letters that I understand Landmark received 
in 2015, with an offer to settle this debt.
Mr T wrote to Landmark on 19 April 2015, offering to settle this debt by paying 10% of the 
total owed. He said in that letter that he was getting this money from a family member who 
had offered to help clear some of his debts, and said otherwise he would have no alternative 
but to file for bankruptcy.
On 24 April, Mr T wrote again, and said his circumstances had changed. He said hed again 
made the offer of £4143.70, but he was willing to negotiate on this amount to bring this 
matter to a conclusion. 
So I think there are two key points here. The first is that the notes Landmark placed on its 
system at the time do not say that Landmark would accept £15,000 in settlement. They 
simply say that anything below this amount will be rejected without further consideration. 
We know Landmark did accept a settlement offer of £15,000 more recently, but Mr and Mrs 
T had been paying small amounts towards this debt for several years by then. And that 
means their overall debt was smaller. They said theyd reduced the debt by around £6,000. 
So, although Mr and Mrs T appear to have assumed throughout that an offer of £15,000 
would have been accepted in 2015, I dont think I can reasonably make the same 
assumption.
The second key point is the overall context of Mr Ts offer in 2015. I can see that Mr T had 
indicated in his second letter that he was willing to negotiate, so this wasnt a final offer. And 
his income and expenditure information suggested he had some savings. 
However, I also think the background to this is relevant  although Mr T said in his second 
letter that his circumstances had changed, less than a week before that he told Landmark 
that he was facing bankruptcy. And he remained in a debt management plan at this time.So I dont think that Landmark could reasonably have assumed, from the letter that Mr T 
sent, that he would be able to negotiate up to a figure which it would consider. I dont think 
Landmark had to make a counter-offer. I do not think it would have been appropriate for 
Landmark to write to Mr and Mrs T, and simply to say that an offer of £15,000 would have 
been considered. This was, after all, very substantially more than Mr and Mrs T had 
suggested, it was almost four times the offer they made. And such an offer might still have 
been refused.
However, Landmarks notes from the time suggest it tried repeatedly to speak to Mr and Mrs 
T shortly after this letter was sent. But it didnt manage to speak to them. They had a debt 
management plan in place with a debt support charity at this time, and they considered that 
Landmark shouldnt have been ringing them at all. 
I do think that its at least possible that Landmark and Mr and Mrs T could have discussed 
their offer during this time. And its then possible that Landmark could have explained that it 
wouldnt be able to consider an offer unless they were in a position to pay very substantially 
more. That would have given Mr and Mrs T an opportunity to indicate whether they would be 
able to do that. I dont think its Landmarks fault that Mr and Mrs T didnt want to discuss 
things on the phone at that time.
Mr and Mrs T also said that they involved solicitors in 2019, in an effort to resolve the issue, 
but Landmark still didnt make this offer. Ive explained that I dont think Landmark had to 
make a counter offer. And I dont think this position changes when Mr and Mrs T involve 
lawyers. 
I know that Mr and Mrs T will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman