DRN-2275981
The complaint
Ms R complains, on behalf of a trust R, that ReAssure Life Limiteds communication with 
Rs trustees and representatives was poor and that it inflated the premiums of a policy held 
in the trust. 
The trustee has brought this complaint to our service on behalf of the trust, but for ease, Ill 
refer to their representative Ms R throughout.
What happened
In 1997 R took out a reviewable whole of life assurance policy with Skandia Life Assurance 
Company Limited. Mr R and Mrs R were the two lives assured. ReAssure later took over 
responsibility for this policy and so for ease, in this decision I will talk about the actions and 
decisions of ReAssure.
In early 2015 Mr R wrote to ReAssure to advise hed moved house and wanted to change 
the correspondence address for the trust. ReAssure wrote back to Mr R, at his new address, 
to explain that in order to change the address on its record it needed the consent of all three 
of Rs trustees. ReAssure removed the old address but didnt hear back from Mr R or any of 
the other trustees, so it didnt make Mr Rs new address the correspondence address.
In early 2016, ReAssure noted the annual premium for the policy had not been paid. So, it 
said it attempted to contact the trustees through their financial advisor. But it received no 
response.
So, ReAssure made the policy paid up. This means that the unpaid premiums were 
deducted from the fund value, until the entire fund was used up.
In early 2017 ReAssure was contacted by a new financial advisor that said it was acting on 
behalf of R. So, ReAssure wrote to Mr R at his new address and explained it would need 
consent from all of the trustees to amend the financial advisor on its records. But ReAssure 
didnt hear back so nothing was changed and ReAssure couldnt discuss details of the policy 
with the new financial advisor. 
In early 2019, Ms R (who had power of attorney for Mr and Mrs R) contacted ReAssure for 
information on the policy. But ReAssure said it couldnt provide information over the 
telephone or via post due to data protection. So, Ms R complained. ReAssure responded 
explaining the policy had lapsed in May 2019 but provided no further information about the 
plan. 
Ms R brought the trusts concerns to our service. In particular, she complained that:
1. The premiums for the plan were inflated such that the fund value was used up.
2. The trustees werent contacted about the missed premium payments and no 
consideration was given to the fact Mr R was elderly.
3. Reassure wouldnt provide information to her about the policy. Had it done so, she 
would have been able to take action to avoid the fund running out.
ReAssure told us Ms Rs Lasting Power of Attorney over Mr Rs financial affairs doesnt 
grant her the authority to act for him as a trustee, which was why it provided her with limited 
information about the policy.
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold Rs complaint. Ms R disagreed, so the 
matters been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it would be helpful to start by summarising how policies such as Rs work. 
Whole of life policies are not set up for a specific term. They are intended to remain in place 
for the rest of the insureds life and designed to pay out on death  in this case payment was 
to be made on a last death basis. Consumers pay a premium each month and part of this 
pays for the ongoing life cover and administration of the policy, whilst the rest is invested. 
An important feature of this particular policy is that its reviewable. This means that the 
policy is subject to periodic reviews at different stages. During these reviews, the business, 
in this case ReAssure, looks to see if the current premium payment is enough to pay for the 
sum assured for the remainder of both Mr and Mrs Rs life. If the premium being paid isnt 
high enough to sustain the sum assured, the terms of the policy allow ReAssure to take 
certain action  this includes increasing premiums, decreasing the sum assured or deducting 
money from any underlying investment value. 
This is the way in which all reviewable whole of life assurance policies operate.
So, whilst Im aware Ms R has complained that the policy premiums were inflated, I havent 
seen any evidence to support this. The policy was reviewable. And the cost of life cover 
increases as you get older and this is based on factors such as mortality rates  
commercially sensitive information I wouldnt expect ReAssure to share with R. 
ReAssure has provided an explanation of how the premiums were calculated for this policy. 
And its given details of the fund value and premium deductions from the end of 2015 
onwards. Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions, Im also satisfied that when the 
premiums werent paid, ReAssure was allowed to deduct these from the investment fund 
value - which is what it did here. So overall, I dont think ReAssure did anything wrong in 
relation to premium calculations.
But Ms R felt the premiums would have been paid, had ReAssure got in contact with Mr R at 
his new address to notify him theyd been missed. Ms R felt this should have been done as 
ReAssure had Mr Rs new address and were aware of his age so had a duty of care. 
Whilst its unfortunate ReAssure wasnt able to contact the trustees about this policy, I dont 
think it did anything wrong here  Ill explain why. 
ReAssure told us it held one correspondence address for this policy. And to amend this 
address, it needed the consent of all the trustees or the consent of the registered financial 
advisor. And I think this is fair given the policy was the trusts responsibility, not just Mr Rs. 
I think ReAssure acted reasonably in responding to Mr R, at his new address, to explain this 
and ask for the permission of the other trustees. I also think it was reasonable that ReAssure 
removed the existing correspondence address given it had received information from one of 
the trustees that he was no longer living there. Ive noted it also told Mr R it had done this. 
When it didnt receive the premiums ReAssure said it also contacted Rs financial advisor. 
It didnt have proof this was done but it told us it was, and still is, the standard process to 
send a copy of the review pack to the financial advisor. I note the paid up letter sent in 2016 also says Please can you forward this letter onto the client as we dont hold an up to date 
address for him  which does support the fact ReAssure shared information with Rs 
financial advisor about the policy. So, on balance, I think its likely it did this.  
I wouldnt expect any business to assume that a person needed to be treated differently due 
to their age unless it received information advising this was the case  to do so could be 
considered discriminatory. So, whilst I have sympathy for the concerns Ms R may have had 
about Mr Rs ability to deal with this matter, I dont think ReAssure did anything wrong here. 
Ultimately, it wasnt ReAssures responsibility to keep the policy address up to date, it was 
the trusts and its unfortunate this didnt happen.
Ive also considered Ms Rs concerns about ReAssure not providing her with information 
about the policy when she enquired about it. Ms R was a beneficiary of the policy and told us 
she had Lasting Power of Attorney in financial matters for both Mr and Mrs R. 
But ReAssure said the Power of Attorney document didnt allow for either Mr or Mrs R to 
delegate their powers as trustees. And I can see that ReAssure explained this to Ms R via a 
letter in June 2019 and provided advice about what steps she could take to resolve this. 
Having reviewed this information, Im satisfied Ms R didnt have the power to act on behalf of 
the trust and so ReAssure acted reasonably in not providing Ms R with further information 
about the policy without the express permission of all of the trustees. Whilst I appreciate this 
must have been incredibly frustrating for Ms R in the circumstances, I think ReAssure acted 
reasonably here and provided guidance as to the action that could be taken to resolve this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the trust R to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman