DRN-2565415
The complaint
Mrs T has complained that Comera Financial Consultants Limited mis-sold her an income 
protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs T was the director of a company (which Ill call A) which provided sports coaching. 
Mrs T was also employed by A.
During 2010 and 2011, Mrs T had discussions with Comera to review her personal financial 
needs and those of A.
In 2011, based on advice from Comera, Mrs T agreed on behalf of A to take out a key 
person insurance policy. She also agreed to take out an individual income protection 
insurance policy. The key person policy was intended to enable A to employ a replacement 
member of staff in the event that Mrs T became incapacitated. The income protection 
insurance policy, provided by the same insurer, was intended to provide Mrs T with a 
replacement income in the event that she became incapacitated.
In 2019, Mrs T suffered an injury and became unable to perform her occupation. A made a 
claim under its policy but the insurer declined the claim. It explained that the test for 
incapacity under the policy was not whether Mrs T could perform her occupation but whether 
she could perform certain work tasks, such as lifting and walking. Mrs T was not prevented 
from performing these tasks and so no benefit was payable.
Mrs T subsequently received confirmation that the same test for incapacity applied to her 
income protection policy, meaning she also wasnt eligible to receive benefit under that 
policy.
Mrs T, on behalf of A, and in her individual capacity, complained about the advice she had 
received from Comera. She considered that the policies had been unsuitable due to their 
definition of incapacity. She furthermore considered that they duplicated one another.
Comera didnt uphold the complaints. It was satisfied the policies had been suitable for A 
and Mrs T. It considered the terms of the policies had been adequately explained to A and 
Mrs T. It didnt consider that they provided duplicate cover to one another.
Mrs T, on behalf of A and in her individual capacity, was unhappy with Comeras response. 
She referred both complaints to us.
Our investigator thought that the complaints from A and Mrs T should be considered 
together. She recommended that the complaints should be upheld. She considered that 
Comera hadnt made clear that the policies would pay benefit only in very restricted 
circumstances. She furthermore thought that Mrs T hadnt needed a corporate policy for A 
as well an individual policy. She thought Comera should have instead advised Mrs T to take 
out just an individual policy designed to provide cover if she were unable to perform her 
occupation. However, given the uncertainty as to which alternative policy Mrs T might have 
agreed to take out and its cost, as well as the uncertainty over how much benefit she might 
have been eligible to receive under her current claim, the investigator thought the fairest 
outcome was simply for Comera to reimburse Mrs T and A for all the premiums which had 
been paid for the two policies, plus interest. 
Comera didnt accept the investigators findings. It considered it had been appropriate to 
recommend separate policies for A and Mrs T. It explained in detail why it considered the 
key person policy had been necessary and why it was satisfied there was no duplication of 
cover. It believed it had made Mrs T adequately aware that the policies had a work tasks 
definition of incapacity and what this meant. It said that key person cover on an own 
occupation basis wasnt available from any provider due to the nature of Mrs Ts work. It 
acknowledged that affordable individual income protection cover on an own occupation 
basis was available for Mrs T but explained this was only if the key person policy wasnt 
taken out. It considered that this would have left A vulnerable and that the better option was 
to take out both policies albeit with a less favourable definition of incapacity.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, let me clarify that there are two separate complainants, namely Mrs T and A, and 
therefore two separate complaints. Our investigator thought it best to consider the 
complaints together. I agree with the investigator. However, I cant make an award to two 
different complainants within the same decision. I have therefore issued two separate 
decisions. This decision has Mrs T as the named complainant and the other decision, which 
is otherwise the same as this, has A as the named complainant.
This is a complex case but I think the investigator did a good job of analysing what 
happened. And I ultimately agree with the investigator that Comera made mistakes for which 
it now needs to provide compensation to Mrs T and A.
Mrs T was the head coach at A, as well as its director. Her income came in the form of a 
salary from A. She wanted cover to protect the business in case she fell sick or injured and 
was unable to work. But she also wanted long term cover for herself to ensure she had 
enough income to meet her personal financial commitments in such circumstances.
Mrs T was therefore looking for cover for both herself and A on an own occupation basis, 
meaning that benefit would be paid if she was incapacitated from working as a sports coach.
The evidence shows that Comera initially tried to obtain a key person policy for A which 
offered cover on this basis. However, due to the nature of Mrs Ts profession, no insurer was 
prepared to offer such cover. Comera therefore instead found an insurer (which Ill call B) 
which was prepared to offer cover on a work tasks basis. The cover was for £30,000 a year, 
payable for up to two years and subject to a three month deferred period. The cost was 
£75.53 a month.
At the same time as this, Comera tried to find an individual income protection policy for 
Mrs T. It successfully found an insurer (which Ill call S) which was prepared to offer cover 
on an own occupation basis. The cover was for £15,000 a year, payable until the age of 65 
and subject to a three month deferred period. The cost was £89.61 a month.
In November 2010, Comera wrote to Mrs T outlining its recommendations in respect of the above and other matters.
It appears that Mrs T agreed to take out both of the policies.
However, Comera then found that S was not prepared to offer the individual income 
protection cover to Mrs T if she was also taking out the key person policy for A. This was 
because it considered that, by taking out both policies, Mrs T was over-insuring herself.
Comera conducted further research of the market. It found that B was prepared to offer 
Mrs T individual income protection cover alongside As key person policy and that it did not 
view this as over-insurance. B could offer the same level of cover as S and for the lower cost 
of £62.66 a month. However, unlike S, Bs cover would be on a works tasks basis.
Comera subsequently recommended that Mrs T take out Bs income protection insurance 
policy to which she agreed.
The investigator considered that Mrs T didnt necessarily need both the key person policy 
and the individual policy. She considered this was a duplication of cover, which seems to be 
a view shared by S. Comera has disputed this and believes that both policies were 
necessary. 
I consider that it is arguable either way about whether both types of policy were necessary 
though I consider that, if both policies were to be taken out, it would have made sense at 
least for the individual policy to have had a longer deferred period. This is because for the 
first two years of any incapacity Mrs T had income protection through the key person policy 
in that she could have used the benefit either as a direct source to pay her salary from A or 
to employ a direct temporary replacement and thus enable her to continue drawing a salary 
from the profit which continued to be generated by A.
However, I consider that Comera didnt do enough in respect of either policy to make Mrs T 
aware of the definition of incapacity and the impact this was likely to have in the event of her 
needing to make a claim.
Comera pointed out that when it wrote to Mrs T in November 2010 it stated (in respect of the 
key persons policy):
The definitions of disability vary considerably. For this particular contract a works task" 
definition is used. This means that the policy will only pay out if you suffer from sickness, 
accident or disability which permanently stops you from doing 2 out of 6 work tasks. Work 
tasks include using a pen, pencil or keyboard: hearing, speaking and seeing.
It also pointed out that when it wrote to Mrs T in May 2011 to recommend the individual 
income protection policy it stated:
Unfortunately, in your job role, it is not possible for us to acquire a policy on an own 
occupation basis and the recommended plan will therefore be set up on a works tasks" 
basis. This means that the policy will only pay out if you suffer from sickness, accident or 
disability which permanently stops you from doing 2 out of 6 work tasks. Work tasks include 
walking, lifting, using a pen, hearing, speaking and seeing.
It further said it also provided Mrs T with relevant documentation such as the key features 
documents and it made clear that its recommendations should be read in conjunction with 
these.
I accept that Comera did all of the above. But the fact is that Mrs T was looking for cover in the event that illness or injury prevented her from working as a coach. And the cover which 
was recommended, even if Comera thought it was the most suitable cover available, didnt 
necessarily provide that. The restrictive nature of the work tasks definition meant cover 
would be payable only if she were suffering from a condition which was severely debilitating, 
way beyond the point at which she couldnt do her job. This meant that if Mrs T were to 
become unable to perform her occupation due to illness or injury, there was a significant 
possibility that she would not be able to claim under either policy.
I note that the key features document for the policies alluded to this. But I wouldnt have 
expected Mrs T to have to search this out for herself. I would have expected Comera to have 
spelled it out clearly in its letter of recommendation. This is particularly so in the case of the 
individual income protection policy because Comera had originally led Mrs T to believe this 
was on an own occupation basis (and its recommendations letter of May 2011 which stated 
otherwise appears to have been written after the policy had been applied for and had 
started). 
Mrs T has also pointed to Comeras minutes of a meeting held in April 2011 in which it is 
recorded that both she and A were now protected in the event she was unable to work due 
to accident or sickness. I recognise these minutes are just a brief summary and not intended 
to reflect the detail of the policies. However, they seem to reinforce that Mrs T was given a 
degree of assurance about her cover which was not justified given the very restrictive nature 
of the incapacity definition.
Although I cant be sure, I consider it likely that if Mrs T had been made aware of the 
potential effect of the work tasks definition, she would have decided not to go ahead with 
the insurance, either for herself or A.
It is difficult to know what she might have done instead. Our investigator thought Comera 
should instead have offered Mrs T an individual policy on an own occupation basis, whether 
from S or another provider. This, of course, would have been possible if the key person 
policy hadnt been taken out and I consider it would have been a reasonable 
recommendation. However, as the investigator has pointed out, we dont know which policy 
Mrs T might have chosen, how much it would have cost, or what benefit might have been 
payable in respect of her recent claim. In view of these difficulties, I agree with the 
investigator that the fairest outcome to this dispute is that Comera reimburses Mrs T and A 
the amounts they have each respectively paid for their policy, plus interest.
This award is dependent on Mrs T cancelling her policy within 28 days of accepting this final 
decision (because if Mrs T were to continue with the policy, it would undermine her argument 
that the policy was mis-sold). I recommend that Mrs T seek independent financial advice 
before cancelling the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Subject to Mrs T cancelling the policy within 28 days of accepting this final decision, I require 
Comera Financial Consultants Limited to do the following:
reimburse Mrs T the amount she has paid in premiums for the policy since it started; and
add interest to this reimbursement at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the 
date each premium was paid until the date of settlement. (If Comera considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should 
tell Mrs T how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs T a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.)
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman