DRN-3213842
The complaint
Mr S complains that NRAM Limited (NRAM) hasnt paid him compensation in accordance 
with a remediation scheme.
What happened
In 2001 Mr S took out a £53,995 mortgage with NRAM. At the same time Mr S borrowed 
£11,000 as an unsecured Together Loan. The Together Loan was stapled to his mortgage. 
It was regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
In 2004, NRAM provided a further £498 to Mr S. This was added to his Together loan.
In 2006, NRAM provided a further £28,000 to Mr S. This was added to his mortgage.
In August 2007 Mr S mortgage and Together Loan accounts were closed when he took out 
a new mortgage. Mr S new mortgage was with another lender. He borrowed enough to 
repay the NRAM mortgage and the Together loan. The new mortgage was created without 
an unsecured CCA regulated loan being stapled to it.
In December 2020 Mr S complained to NRAM. He said he was unhappy that NRAM hadnt 
contacted him about the redress it was required to pay under a remediation scheme set up 
to compensate consumers in circumstances were NRAMs communications hadnt complied 
with its obligations under the CCA.
NRAM didnt uphold his complaint. It said that Mr S Together loan had been redeemed 
before the period of non-compliance covered by the remediation scheme started. So Mr S 
accounts werent covered by the remediation scheme.
Our investigator looked into what happened. He said the remediation scheme was set up 
because NRAM hadnt always complied with section 77A of the CCA. However section 77A 
of the CCA didnt come into force until 1 October 2008, and the provisions werent 
retrospective. Section 77A only applied to pre-existing loan agreements that were still active 
after 1 October 2008. Lenders then had until 1 October 2009 to begin sending annual 
statements in line with section 77A. Mr S loan was closed before section 77A of the CCA 
came into force. So our investigator was satisfied that NRAMs remediation scheme didnt 
apply to Mr S Together loan account.
Mr S disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He said the 
information on NRAMs website suggested that certain loans taken out before 6 April 2008 
were covered by the CCA. The relevant wording said:
Please note - in respect of loans taken out before 6 April 2008, the CCA regulations only 
apply where the amount we agreed to lend you (the amount of credit) was £25,000 or less. 
Our investigator said hed considered the information on NRAM's website as part of his 
investigation. He accepted that the wording above didn't state specifically that the loan still 
needed to be active after 1 October 2008. However, he said that as Mr S Together Loan 
wasn't in place when section 77A of the CCA came into force, there wasnt a period 'non-
compliance' to be put right. In other words there was no legal requirement for NRAM to 
comply with section 77A when Mr S Together Loan was in place.
Mr S continued to disagree with our investigator, so this complaint has been passed on to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion our investigator has reached, for the same 
reasons.
The crux of Mr S argument is that he thinks hes due a payment under NRAMs remediation 
scheme. He thinks the remediation scheme applied to his Together Loan because he 
borrowed less than £25,000, and because his loan was in place before 6 April 2008. 
Specifically thinks hes covered by the wording on NRAMs website that said:
Please note - in respect of loans taken out before 6 April 2008, the CCA regulations only 
apply where the amount we agreed to lend you (the amount of credit) was £25,000 or less. 
I understand the point Mr S has made. However. I disagree. As our investigator said, the 
remediation scheme was set up because NRAM hadnt always complied with section 77A of 
the CCA. 
However, section 77A of the CCA didnt come into force until 1 October 2008, and the 
provisions werent retrospective. Section 77A of the CCA only applied to pre-existing loan 
agreements that were still active after 1 October 2008.
Mr S Together Loan account was closed in 2007. So I dont consider that section 77A of the 
CCA applied to it.
In the circumstances, I think NRAM was right to say that Mr S Together loan wasnt affected 
by the remediation scheme. It follows that NRAM wasnt required to pay Mr S any money 
under that scheme. So it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to require NRAM to pay 
Mr S any money to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman