DRN-2101845
The complaint
Mr P complains that Phoenix Life Limited mis-sold him a whole of life policy.
The complaint has been brought by a representative who Ill refer to as L.
What happened
In November 1988 Mr P was advised to set up a whole of life policy by a firm Phoenix Life 
has since acquired liability for. The policy provided an initial sum assured of £50,000  in the 
event Mr P died or suffered from a critical illness  and included escalation for the first five 
years. The policy premiums started at about £63 per month and were invested in a managed 
fund.
The policy was surrendered in 1993.
L complained on behalf of Mr P to Phoenix Life in September 2019 about the sale of the 
policy. They said critical illness cover was a priority for Mr P but that no alternative options 
were discussed with him at the time. Also, there was no assessment made regarding the 
long-term affordability of the policy for Mr P.
Phoenix Life didnt uphold the complaint. They said the paperwork from the time of sale 
shows Mr P had life cover shortfalls and that he wanted critical illness cover. They also 
explained critical illness cover was only available with life cover on a whole of life basis, or in 
conjunction with an endowment plan, when the policy was sold. And so, they were satisfied 
the policy met Mr Ps needs at that time.
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but he 
didnt think the policy was mis-sold. He explained that while Mr P already had life cover in 
place, his priority was critical illness cover. And, at that time, critical illness cover wasnt 
available as a standalone policy. He also hadnt seen anything to show Mr P had raised 
concerns about affordability. So, he didnt the policy was mis-sold as it provided Mr P with 
his desired cover.
L disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
Before I explain my findings, Id like to assure L that Ive taken in to account the other 
complaint it has referenced in support of Mr Ps complaint. But, in making my decision, Ive 
considered the individual circumstances of this complaint when determining what I think is 
fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L has confirmed that critical illness cover was a priority for Mr P when the policy was sold. 
This is also supported by the financial analysis report that was completed at the time. And I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Mr P to acquire critical illness cover as a way of providing 
financial protection for his wife and children. 
L however says Mr P wasnt provided any other option other than the whole of life policy. 
But, as both Phoenix Life and our investigator has explained, critical illness cover wasnt 
available as a standalone policy at that time. I therefore think it was reasonable for a whole 
of life policy, which also provided life cover, to be recommended to Mr P as it met his 
protection need.
Im aware that L also says there wasnt any assessment of Mr Ps ability to pay the policy 
premiums in the long term. As I wasnt present when the policy was sold, I cant be sure 
what was discussed between Mr P and the advisor. Mr Ps income was recorded in the 
financial analysis report and he also agreed to escalation for the first five years of the policy. 
So, on balance, I think there was likely some discussion around affordability at the time. 
I also think its relevant to add that the whole of life policy gave Mr P the flexibility of 
increasing or decreasing the level of cover  and thereby the premiums payable - to suit his 
circumstances (such as if he was struggling to afford the premiums). Furthermore, if Mr P 
had any concerns around affordability then he couldve questioned this at the time or when 
he surrendered the policy. Ive not seen that this happened. Im therefore not persuaded the 
policy was unsuitable for Mr P due to affordability.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman