DRN-2708333
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with One Insurance Limited about a claim he submitted when his car was 
stolen. 
Mr R complains about:
the valuation hes been offered for the car;
the amount offered for his personal belongings; and
the service hes received in dealing with the claim.
What happened
Mr Rs car was broken into on 22 May 2020. His car was stolen along with his sons. Mr R 
called the police and then made One Insurance aware of the incident the following day. 
One Insurance advised Mr R that it couldnt accept the claim for 21 days and so Mr R was 
left without any means of transport. On 2 June 2020, One Insurance requested information 
relating to the incident and asked Mr R to complete some questions. The car was recovered 
by the police and was found to be burned out.
Following an assessment of the claim, One Insurance offered Mr R £11,895 less the excess 
for the loss of the car. It also explained that Mr R could claim for personal belongings up to a 
maximum of £200. And for the level of service provided in the handling of the claim, One 
Insurance offered £75 as it said it could have done better.
Mr R was unhappy with One Insurances response. So he brought the complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said the 
valuation of the car was fair and reasonable based on the trade guides available. She also 
said the maximum amount that could be claimed for personal belongings was £200 and 
whilst Mr R thought this wasnt fair, this was in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. With regards to the offer of compensation of £75, she thought considering that One 
Insurance could have provided better service, this offer was also fair in the circumstances. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigator and has asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So its been passed to me. 
In summary, hes said the following:
He submitted examples of valuations of his car. The examples suggested a 
settlement amount of £13,450 which would have allowed Mr R to replace his car 
along similar lines;
One Insurance offered a lower amount to begin with for the loss of his car which it 
later agreed was too low. For this, an offer of £25 was made which isnt line with the 
magnitude of its failings and timescales involved;
He feels having to provide evidence proof of purchase as opposed to evidencing 
ownership is unfair in regard to claiming for the personal belongings;
Hes referred to the terms and conditions of the policy and points to the unclear 
statements referring to availability of the courtesy car in the policy documents;
Mr R questions whether the handling of his personal data is compliant with the 
General Data Protection Regulations (GDPR); and
One Insurance is choosing not to pursue recovery of the costs from the individual 
charged with the theft, so Mr R feels it isnt acting best in his interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has provided a lot of information and I can see he feels strongly about whats 
happened and how the claim has been dealt with. However, its important to distinguish 
whats in dispute here. While theres further points raised by Mr R following the investigators 
assessment, I will only address here what I think is relevant to this complaint and what was 
raised by Mr R in his complaint to One Insurance. 
So, to be clear, the key issues I need to decide are whether:
The valuation of the car offered to Mr R is in line with what we would expect and 
whether thats fair and reasonable;
The amount offered for the personal belongings is in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy; and
The offer of £75 compensation is fair and reasonable for the overall handling of the 
complaint.
Valuation
Mr Rs policy says in the event of a car being stolen, the most One Insurance will pay is the 
market value at the time of the loss. Cover is provided for replacement of the car. And a 
settlement is based on the cost of replacing the car at the time of the loss, taking into 
account the make, model and mileage. 
I confirm the role of this service isn't to value cars. But we do check to make sure that
insurers have acted fairly and reasonably in doing so. Ive considered the trade guides
that produced a result for Mr Rs car. Having done so, Im satisfied that the offer was fair.
The issue centres around whether One Insurance has offered a fair market value for Mr Rs 
car. I understand and have considered Mr Rs comments that a higher settlement amount 
would have offered him the opportunity to find a similar replacement. But thats not what Im 
looking at here  only whether I think One Insurance has acted fairly and reasonably in 
valuing the car at the time of the theft. I understand that Mr R provided many examples to 
One Insurance but, generally, adverts arent a persuasive way to value a car. Trade guides 
are a more accurate reflection of car selling prices. Having looked at how One Insurance has 
reached the valuation, Im not persuaded the valuation from the trade guides is unfair or 
unreasonable. So, I think One Insurances offer of £11,895 less the excess is fair and in line 
with this. 
Adverts also tend to be less reliable as they are a starting point as to what a seller believes 
the car is worth, so they tend to vary widely and also tend to be a starting point to negotiate 
a lower price. 
Amount for personal belongingsMr Rs complaint here is about the amount he can claim for. 
The policy provides cover for personal belongings if the car is stolen up to a maximum of 
£200 for any one claim. 
Mr R has said having to provide evidence of proof of purchase as opposed to evidencing 
ownership is unfair in regard to claiming for the personal belongings. I appreciate this and 
can understand that he may not have proof of purchase for all the items he is claiming for. 
Usually the insurer would review the items being claimed and offer a reasonable amount to 
pay up to the maximum stated on the policy. In this case, Mr R can only ever claim up to 
£200 on his policy and while hes disputing this amount, Im not persuaded that this should 
depart from what the terms and conditions of the policy state. 
Handling of the claim
Mr R has raised issues relating to the way the claim has been handled and service provided 
by One Insurance. The main issues hes raised are to do with communication and how One 
Insurance reached its valuation of the car. Ive reviewed the information provided and can 
see that there was poor communication and the valuation amount was increased to reflect 
the approach we would take in complaints such as this. One Insurance has accepted it could 
have done better and therefore offered Mr R £75 in recognition of this. 
Having considered this, I think this is a fair reflection of what happened, and I think the offer 
of £75 is fair in the circumstances. The communication could have been better and the 
market value ought to have considered our approach in cases similar to this. 
I understand also that Mr R is unhappy he didnt receive a courtesy car while One Insurance 
was assessing the claim. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy and while 
he says, the terms were unclear, I dont agree. Both the policy document and the policy 
renewal document confirm a courtesy car would not be provided. 
Mr R has raised a further couple of points which arent necessarily part of this complaint or 
ones that were made to One Insurance. For completeness, I will respond to these but do not 
form part of this decision and my findings. 
Mr R has commented on his personal data and questioned whether One Insurance is 
compliant. This isnt a complaint we would deal with at this service but one which should be 
directed to the Information Commissioners Office. 
Hes also commented on how One Insurance has dealt with recovering costs from the 
individual charged with the theft. This didnt form part of the initial complaint to One 
Insurance and therefore isnt something that I can comment on here either. 
Conclusion
Overall, the offer made by One Call for the valuation of the stolen car of £11,895 less the 
excess amount is in line with whats expected and fair and reasonable. 
The maximum amount that can be claimed for personal belongings is £200 and also in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. Im not therefore persuaded this should be any 
different to whats stated in the policy. 
I agree that One Insurance could have provided better service. But having looked at the offer 
it has made of £75, I think its fair and reasonable. My final decision
One Insurance Limited has offered to pay Mr R the amount of £11,895 (less the excess 
amount) as Ive outlined above. Its also offered £75 compensation for the handling of the 
claim. I conclude that both offers are fair in the circumstances. 
My decision is that One Insurance Limited should pay any outstanding amounts within 28 
days of receiving notice of Mr Rs acceptance of this decision.
Mr R should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, and
he probably then wouldn't be able to take legal action over this matter. If, however, he
rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain intact, itll be purely a matter
between him and One Insurance Limited whether the above offer still remains open for 
acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman