DRN-2792632
The complaint
Mr C had a travel insurance policy with U K Insurance Limited and complains that it left him 
uninsured whilst he was abroad. Reference to UKI includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
In summary, Mr C had travel insurance as a benefit of a current account. The policy 
covered trips up to 31 days. In November 2019, Mr C bought a trip extension upgrade 
and paid a premium of £132. The trip extension upgrade meant that the policy covered a 
maximum trip length of 106 days between 22 November 2019 and 21 November 2020. 
Mr C began his trip on 1 December 2019. His return flight on 12 March 2020 was 
cancelled due to covid-19. Mr C contacted UKI. Ill refer to those phone calls in more 
detail below. 
I understand that Mr C closed his current account and the related travel insurance policy 
was cancelled in March 2020. Mr C remains on his trip.  
Mr C says that the compensation UKI paid isnt enough to enable him to purchase a new 
policy. He wants UKI to insure him until he returns to the UK or to pay him sufficient 
compensation so that he can purchase cover for his extended stay. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that UKI was 
obliged to offer Mr C indefinite cover. The investigator thought that the amounts UKI had 
already paid to Mr C were fair. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He said, in summary:
The investigator focussed too much on what happened after his policy expired, 
which is irrelevant. 
The basis of his complaint is that UKI left him in the lurch. 
The fact that he is still on his trip doesnt alter UKIs failings in March 2020. 
UKI didnt help him in a time of crisis. 
Why dont UKI have recordings of his calls? He sent them screen shots of the 
calls, but it still seems to dismiss them. 
The investigator didnt look at what UKI should have told him. 
If in March 2020 UKI had agreed to extend his policy its possible that he may 
have made more effort to return to the UK. 
Mr C asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows:
Is your trip for more than 31 days?
This policy covers you for trips of up to 31 days. If your trip is longer you can purchase a 
Trip Extension Upgrade. This must be done before your departure from the UK. []
If you want to buy one of the upgrades described above call our customer helpline []
All upgrades must be bought before you start your trip and will only be valid for events that 
happened after the upgrade cover has started.
Trip length
This policy provides cover for trips up to 31 days. If your return to your home area is 
delayed beyond your scheduled end date of your trip for reasons outside your control we 
will automatically extend cover until your new return date. If you are planning a long trip you 
can extend your cover by buying a Trip Extension Upgrade []
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why:
 
UKI cant trace the calls Mr C made to it in March 2020. Thats not unusual, as not all 
calls are recorded and retained. I dont think that alters the outcome here, as UKI 
accepts that Mr C made those calls and that it told him, incorrectly, that it wouldnt 
extend his cover after his return flight was cancelled. In fact, the policy provides that 
where a return home is delayed beyond the planned return date for reasons outside 
Mr Cs control, UKI will automatically extend cover until Mr Cs new return date. 
When Mr C contacted UKI in March 2020 it should have told him that it could extend 
his cover until his new return date. I dont think its unreasonable or unfair for UKI to 
say that it would extend Mr Cs cover provided that he was taking steps to return 
home as soon as he reasonably could. The investigator has set out travel advice 
from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office at various points. It appears that Mr C 
could have returned home in 2020. 
UKI wasnt obliged to sell Mr C a trip extension upgrade in March 2020. Thats 
because the policy provides that a trip extension upgrade can only be purchased 
before departure from the UK. 
For reasons I quite understand, Mr C decided to remain on his trip. In those 
circumstances, UKI isnt obliged to continue to offer Mr C cover. There are no 
grounds on which I could fairly direct UKI to give Mr C cover for his extended trip. 
UKI isnt obliged to offer Mr C indefinite cover. Similarly, there are no grounds on which to direct UKI to pay Mr C sufficient compensation to enable him to obtain cover 
with another insurer. UKI isnt responsible for the cost of Mr Cs new insurance for his 
extended trip. 
UKI should have given Mr C clear information in March 2020 and didnt do so. Mr C 
was no doubt worried that his return was delayed and that, as far as he was aware, 
his cover wasnt extended. Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that if UKI 
had given Mr C the correct information in March 2020 he would have returned to the 
UK as soon as he could. Mr C has been quite clear that he remained on his trip for 
various reasons. It seems to me more likely than not that those reasons would have 
remained valid for Mr C even if UKI had given him correct information and told him 
that it could extend his cover until his new return date provided that he returned 
home as soon as he reasonably could. 
To compensate for its error, UKI refunded the premium Mr C paid for the trip 
extension upgrade (£132) and four months of account charges (£52). It also paid     
Mr C compensation of £50. I think that the amounts UKI has already paid to Mr C are 
fair and reasonable in this case. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman