DRN-1896478
Complaint
Miss R says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly provided 
her with a number of unaffordable instalment loans.
Background
This complaint is about four high-cost short-term credit instalment loans that Sunny provided 
to Miss R. Miss Rs first loan was provided in September 2018 and her final one in 
November 2018. Miss R says that it was irresponsible for Sunny to provide these loans to 
her as shed already had an irresponsible lending complaint upheld a few months earlier.
Sunny had already provided Miss R with 14 instalment loans between April 2017 and 
October 2017. Miss R complained that these loans were irresponsibly lent in October 2017. 
Miss Rs complaint reached our service and Sunny agreed with our adjudicators 
assessment that Miss R shouldnt have been provided with some of her loans in May 2018. 
Miss R applied for further loans from Sunny in September 2018. What happened next is 
disputed by the parties. Miss R says that she applied for a further loan using her existing 
account and Sunny declined her application. Sunny says that the application wasnt declined 
it was cancelled as Miss R didnt provide further information that it requested from her in 
order to process this. Nevertheless, it's accepted that for whatever reason Miss Rs 
application using her existing account wasnt approved.
Miss R then proceeded to set-up a second account with Sunny. Some of the details included 
on the second account were different from the first one. Miss R accepts this but says this is 
irrelevant as her name and date of birth were the same on both accounts. So Sunny ought to 
have realised that both accounts were for the same applicant and if Sunny wasnt prepared 
to lend to her on the first one it was irresponsible to lend on the second.
One of our adjudicators initially reviewed Miss Rs complaint and thought Sunny hadnt done 
anything wrong when providing loans 1 to 3. But he also thought that Miss R shouldnt have 
been provided with loan 4 and that Sunny should remove the interest and charges added to 
loan 4. Miss R disagreed. She said the entire outstanding balance on loan 4 should be 
written off, rather than just the interest, fees and charges, and her complaint about her first 
three loans should also be upheld.
The complaint was then reviewed by a second adjudicator. The second adjudicator thought 
that Sunny ought to have realised that the same applicant (Miss R) was using a second 
account to apply for loans and so it was unfair to lend bearing in mind the previous history. 
He thought that Sunny should accept 65% of the balance to settle the accounts and also pay 
Miss R £75 for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Sunny didnt agree with the second adjudicator. And as the parties were unable to agree on 
an informal resolution the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision of 22 May 2020On 22 May 2020, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Miss Rs 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings.
I thought that there were two questions for me to consider in order to fairly and reasonably 
determine Miss Rs complaint. Firstly I needed to decide whether Sunny ought to have 
reconciled the two accounts and realised that Miss R was the applicant for both of them. And 
secondly I then needed to consider the effect the answer to this question had on the lending 
decisions Sunny made. 
I started by considering whether Sunny ought to have reconciled Miss Rs two accounts.
My thoughts on whether Sunny ought to have reconciled the two accounts and so ought to 
have been aware of its previous lending history with Miss R
I began by setting out that didnt appear to be in dispute that Miss R knew shed be unlikely 
to obtain credit on the account shed previously done in 2017. I didnt know if Sunny did 
immediately decline her application. But Id seen a screenshot indicating that Miss R was 
told that her application had been closed because she hadnt provided necessary 
documentation. 
Equally, while I didnt know what exactly it was Sunny had requested from Miss R, I 
suspected that Sunny wanted more information  such as bank statements  in order to 
have carried out a more robust assessment of Miss Rs ability to repay any further credit 
before it was prepared to lend to her again. I also pointed out that Id seen that Miss R had 
said that Sunny refused to lend to her, on this account, after her first complaint. 
I did say that whatever reason Sunny had for declining to lend didnt matter too much here 
because regardless of whether Miss Rs application was declined or closed because 
information wasnt returned the result was the same, Sunny didnt lend to her. Equally what 
Miss R told us suggested she knew that this would continue to happen as long as she used 
this account. And this appeared to be her primary motivation behind opening a second 
account.
It also wasnt in dispute that Miss Rs second account wasnt opened with the same details 
as the first one. It was understanding that Miss Rs name and date of birth were the same 
but most of the rest of the requested information was different. For example, I know that a 
different email address, phone number and employment was recorded on the second 
account. So clearly Miss R took active steps to, at the very least, confuse matters.  
I referred to Miss Rs argument that this didnt matter as both of her email addresses are 
recorded on her credit file. But I explained that I didn't think that a credit file would record a 
customer's email address. Some companies which allowed customers to view an online 
report might ask for an email address when setting up an account. However, I didnt think 
that this information was recorded on the customer's actual credit file. 
I did point out that it was arguable that the information that was the same on both accounts 
ought to have alerted Sunny to the fact that the same customer created both of them. But I 
didnt think that this was what had happened here. Sunny had already decided that it wasnt 
going to lend to Miss R, on the first account, without first considering the information that it 
had requested. I was also mindful that Miss Rs October 2017 loan was only settled as a 
result of the compensation from her complaint being upheld. In these circumstances, I 
thought it was unlikely that Sunny would have proceeded with an application on the second 
account if it had been aware of the history on the first one.I then reiterated that I was required to decide what was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. As this was the case, I couldnt ignore the fact that Miss R 
took active steps to get around Sunny's unwillingness to lend to her. In my view, Miss R 
created a second account with alternative details, at the very least, was an attempt to 
confuse matters and arguably an attempt to make it appear that there were two different 
applicants. In these circumstances, I didnt think it was fair and reasonable for me to say that 
Sunny should be held responsible for what happened  the failure to reconcile the two 
accounts. 
As this was the case and bearing in mind the number of differences in the information 
provided for the two accounts, I didnt think that Sunny unfairly and unreasonably failed to 
reconcile Miss Rs second account with her first one. And so I thought it was fair and 
reasonable to treat Miss Rs application for a loan in September 2018 as though it was a first 
application and it wasnt unreasonable not to have had regard to what happened on Miss Rs 
previous account. I went on to consider the rest of Miss Rs complaint in light of this.   
Why I didn't think that Sunny had acted unfairly when providing loans 1 to 3 
I started by setting out that Sunny said it agreed to Miss Rs applications for these loans after 
shed provided details of her monthly income and expenditure. It said the information Miss R 
provided showed that shed be able to comfortably make the repayments she was 
committing to. And in these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. 
Bearing in mind the amount of the monthly repayments, and the circumstances at the time 
the loans were provided, I didnt think it was unreasonable for Sunny to have relied on the 
information Miss R gave at these stages. I accepted that Miss Rs actual circumstances 
werent reflected either in the information she provided, or any other information Sunny 
obtained. 
For example, Id seen what Miss R had said about her other short-term lending, I was aware 
of her gambling and I was also sorry to hear of Miss Rs struggles. But I pointed out that 
Sunny could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
And at stage of the lending relationship when these loans were provided, I didnt think 
proportionate checks wouldve extended into Sunny specifically searching for short-term 
lending or asking Miss R to evidence her expenditure.  
Equally it was only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint where I could safely say 
a lender did something wrong. And, I didnt think that Sunny did do anything wrong when 
deciding to provide loans 1 to 3 to Miss R - it carried out proportionate checks even though 
its looked like the information it mightve been provided with might not have included all 
of Miss Rs commitments to short-term lenders or her previous history with Sunny. 
Sunny reasonably relied on the information provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved and the overall circumstances of Miss Rs loan history, I didnt think it 
was unfair for it to have provided loans 1 to 3. So I didnt intend to uphold the complaint 
about these loans.
I then explained that Sunny had already agreed it shouldnt have provided loan 4 to Miss R 
and so it would remove all the interest and charges applied from the outset. I then addressed 
Miss Rs argument that this didnt go far enough and she shouldnt have to pay back what 
she was lent because the loan was irresponsibly provided. 
But I explained that Miss R would have been aware from her previous complaint about 
Sunny that wed usually expect a borrower to repay the amount they were lent and wed only 
usually ask a lender to refund or remove any interest, fees and charges. After all, even though Sunny shouldnt have agreed to the loan, Miss R did apply for it, she received the 
funds and she used them. So I thought it was perfectly fair and reasonable to expect her to 
pay them back. 
I hadnt seen anything in the circumstances of the case to suggest that it would be fair and 
reasonable to depart from our usual approach to putting things right here. On the contrary, in 
my view, it was arguable that the circumstances behind the application of this loan meant 
that it would be fair and reasonable for Miss R to pay the interest and charges on loan 4 too. 
But Sunny had already agreed to remove the interest, fees and charges applied for loan 4 
and I thought that this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Finally, I also made it clear that I was aware that there had been discussions about Sunny 
accepting a reduced amount to settle Miss R's outstanding balance. Sunny had confirmed 
that those offers were withdrawn as Miss R didnt make payment at the required times. I 
didnt know whether Sunny was now prepared to accept a reduced payment. But I was going 
to leave this matter to the parties to agree an affordable repayment plan for Miss R to repay 
what she owed. I also reminded Sunny of its obligation to exercise forbearance should it be 
the case that Miss R couldnt repay because she was experiencing financial difficulty.
All of this left me intending to issue a final decision which found that what Sunny had already 
agreed to do to put things right for Miss R was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint.  
Responses to my provisional decision
Sunny didnt respond to my provisional decision or provide anything further for me to 
consider.
Ms S provided two responses which in summary, said that:
Sunny hadnt agreed to do anything so far so she wanted clarification on this;
 
she was unhappy that Id gone against the conclusions reached by the second 
adjudicator;
 
Sunny didnt ask for further information after her later applications on the first 
account. It confirmed it declined her application because of her previous irresponsible 
lending complaint;
 
she was the same person so how did Sunny not realise this;
 
when she set up the new account she had a new phone number and new address so 
what else should she have recorded;
 
it wasnt fair for Sunny to keep changing its offer to settle the outstanding balances. 
And as it didnt respond to her how was she expected to accept the offer.
 
Although Ive summarised and only set out the main points of Miss Rs responses, I can 
confirm that Ive read and carefully considered both of the emails she sent.  
 
My findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments provided from the outset, including 
the responses to my provisional decision, in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Id like to start by reiterating that Sunny agreed to the assessment reached by our first 
adjudicator. And what it has agreed to do is ensure that the amount Miss R repays for loan 4 
is limited to what she was originally lent  so it is removing all the interest, fees and charges 
added to this loan. As this is what Id ask Sunny to do if I were to find that it shouldnt have 
provided this loan, Im satisfied that it represents a fair and reasonable resolution to Miss Rs 
complaint about this loan.
I now turn to Miss Rs comments regarding the rest of my provisional decision.
Miss R says shes unhappy that Ive disagreed with the conclusions the second adjudicator 
reached. I can understand why Miss R is disappointed that I didnt agree with the adjudicator 
and also why she might prefer the findings the second adjudicator reached. But as Sunny 
didnt agree to the adjudicators view, by not providing a response, an ombudsman was 
required to determine matters as it is only an ombudsmans decision which is final and 
binding upon a firm should it be accepted by the consumer. 
Furthermore, an ombudsman is required to consider everything provided and reach their 
own conclusion and they are not bound to reach the same decision as any adjudicator had 
previously. But if the ombudsman disagrees with an adjudicators view theyll usually issue a 
provisional decision explaining the reasons for the decision and provide the parties with a 
further chance to respond. Ive explained why, both in my provisional decision and earlier on 
in this decision, I dont think that Miss Rs complaint should be upheld in the way the second 
adjudicator set out. So while I understand Miss Rs disappointment, I dont consider that Ive 
unfairly reached a conclusion that Im not entitled to reach.
Miss R has reiterated that the application she made on her previous account was declined 
because of her previous complaint and she wasnt asked further information. As I explained 
in my provisional decision, Ive seen screenshot suggesting that Miss Rs application was 
cancelled because of a failure to provide further information requested. But I also said that 
this didnt matter here anyway. I said this because regardless of whether Miss Rs 
application was declined or closed because information wasnt returned the result was the 
same, Sunny didnt lend to her. And I was satisfied that what Miss R told us suggested she 
knew that this would continue to happen as long as she used this account. Indeed I found 
that this appeared to be Miss Rs primary motivation behind opening a second account.
Ive also thought about what Miss R has said about her details changing by the time she 
opened her second account and so what details was she supposed to use on the 
application. But this ignores the fact that Miss R didnt need to open a second account. By 
her own admission, Sunny had already told her that it wasnt going to lend to her, so Miss R 
had already been provided with Sunnys answer in respect of whether it would provide any 
further credit to her. And as there wasnt an outstanding balance on any of the loans on the 
first account, there wasnt even a reason for Miss R to provide Sunny with her updated 
correspondence details either.  
Id also reiterate what I said in my provisional decision that it is arguable that the information 
that was the same on both accounts ought to have alerted Sunny to the fact that the same 
customer created both of them. But I dont think that this happened here. As it simply 
wouldnt have made sense for Sunny not to have provided credit on the first account but do 
so on the second one if it knew the applications were made by the same customer. But, in any event (and this is a matter that Miss R hasnt addressed), Im required to decide 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. And in doing so, I cant 
ignore (as Miss R seems to want me to do) the fact that Miss R took active steps to get 
around Sunny's unwillingness to lend to her. Im satisfied that Miss R created a second 
account with alternative details to, at the very least, confuse matters and in all probably 
make it appear that the later applications were from a different applicant. 
In these circumstances, I simply do not agree that it is fair and reasonable for me to hold 
Sunny responsible for the failure to reconcile the two accounts. As such Im satisfied that it is 
fair and reasonable to disregard Miss Rs lending history on the first account, when deciding 
whether it was fair and reasonable to provide the loans on the second account. And in these 
circumstances, Im satisfied that Sunny acted fairly and reasonable towards Miss R when it 
provided loans 1 to 3.
Finally, Ive also thought about what Miss R has said about Sunny changing its offers of 
settlement and Ive once again looked through the emails she provided. Having done so, I 
remain satisfied that Miss R didnt accept the settlements by the respective dates she was 
required to do so. Indeed in her completed complaint form to us Miss R says that she wasnt 
able to accept at least one of the settlement proposals because she didnt have the funds to 
do so at the time. 
As Miss R didnt pay the respective settlement amounts by the deadlines set and Ive found 
that Sunny didnt act unfairly and unreasonably when providing loans 1 to 3 in the first place, 
Im satisfied that Sunny hasnt acted unfairly in relation to this matter either. But Id reiterate 
what I said in my provisional decision insofar that Sunny is under an obligation to exercise 
forbearance should it decide to collect on the balance owed and Miss R be experiencing 
financial difficulty.
Having carefully considered all of Miss Rs further comments, Ive not been persuaded to 
alter the findings I reached in my provisional decision of 22 May 2020. So I remain satisfied 
that what Sunny has already agreed to do to put things right is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Rs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I find that what Elevate Credit International Limited has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Miss R is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of her complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman