DRN-3506759
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) unfairly 
declined a claim under a deposit protection policy.
What happened
Mrs B wanted a garden studio built at her home. A company quoted for the work but said 
nothing further could happen, including applying for planning permission, until Mrs B paid the 
deposit. Mrs B paid a 25% deposit and, shortly after this, the company applied for planning 
permission. A couple of weeks later, the company told Mrs B that it had ceased trading and 
told her to start the process to recover the deposit under the deposit protection policy it had 
provided as part of the agreement to carry out the works. 
Mrs B contacted Acasta to make a claim. Acasta declined the claim because it said planning 
permission was still pending. When Mrs B complained, Acasta said planning permission 
needed to have been granted at the time the policy commenced and as it hadnt been 
granted until after that time, no claim could be made under the policy.
When Mrs B complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. She said the 
policy wording wasnt clear that planning permission needed to have been granted by the 
policy inception date. She said Acasta should deal with the claim.
As Acasta didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The policy said:
On inception of this policy you the customer accept that no protection will be provided 
where planning permission has not been granted (if planning permission is required). No 
protection will be effective, if a written contract for the full works to be earned out has not 
been provided by the member company.
Acasta declined the claim because it said the policy required customers to already have 
planning permission at the time the policy was first taken out. At the time the policy was 
taken out Mrs B didnt have planning permission. Planning permission was granted about six 
weeks after the policy started and after the garden studio company ceased trading.
Looking at the wording of the policy, I think it was unclear. Acasta has said the wording 
meant that planning permission needed to have been granted when the policy was first 
taken out. However, Mrs B has said she didnt understand it in that way. She said:
I accepted the terms and conditions that protection would not be provided for a project that 
fails to be granted any required planning permission. Acceptance of those terms and 
conditions is the only thing date-specific to 'inception of this policy'. At no point does the 
quoted clause say that planning permission had to have been
granted by that date, too
From what Ive seen, I think Mrs Bs interpretation was reasonable. I think the policy wording 
was ambiguous. I dont think the wording On inception of this policy clearly related to the 
timing of the granting of any planning permission. In the context, I think it could reasonably 
be interpreted as simply meaning that the customer needs to accept the terms and 
conditions at the start of the policy. But, I dont think it was clear that the planning permission 
itself needed to have been granted at inception of the policy. The wording also said: no 
protection will be provided where planning permission has not been granted. I think the use 
of a double negative can make it harder for a customer to understand what wording means. 
In my view, the phrase has not been granted is also open to interpretation because it could 
mean that planning permission has been turned down, rather than that it hasnt been applied 
for/ approved but, as was the case here, is then granted.
Where wording is unclear, we say that it is fair to take the interpretation that favours the 
party that didnt write it. So, based on everything Ive seen, I think Acasta should deal with 
the claim for the deposit.
Putting things right
Acasta should deal with the claim for the deposit without requiring planning permission to 
have been in place at the policy inception.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. Acasta 
European Insurance Company Limited should deal with the claim for the deposit in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, without a requirement for planning 
permission to have been in place at the inception of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman