DRN-3279218
The complaint
Mr B complains about the repairs Advantage Insurance Company Limited made to his car 
following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants it to pay him the market 
value of his car or to provide a replacement. 
What happened
Mr B was involved in an accident and Advantage took his car for repairs. The car had to be 
returned to the repairer multiple times over the following year as a warning light was showing 
and the car then failed its MOT. Mr B was provided with a courtesy car whilst the initial 
repairs were made, but he had to rely on friends and family and public transport after that 
time. Advantage offered Mr B £300 compensation for its delays in the claim. But Mr B 
rejected this. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. After the complaint 
came to our service, Advantage provided an independent damage report which said the 
warning light issue could be accident-related and so should be repaired as part of the claim. 
Advantage then agreed to do this. So she thought Advantage hadnt carried out the repairs 
correctly. She thought it hadnt checked the car sufficiently before it was returned to Mr B 
each time. She also thought it hadnt provided Mr B with his courtesy car entitlement. 
The Investigator thought Advantage should pay Mr B £900 compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience its repairs had caused him since he made the claim. And she also thought 
Advantage should pay Mr B £10 a day for loss of use of his car from the date the courtesy 
car was taken back until the date the car was returned fully repaired. 
Mr B said he was happy with this. And Advantage agreed to do this. But, two months later, 
Advantage still hadnt booked the car in for repairs or paid Mr B the agreed compensation. 
Mr B asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision. He now wanted Advantage to carry out his original desired redress, to pay him the 
market value for his car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B feels frustrated with the length of time its taking for Advantage to 
repair his car. The accident was in May 2020 and the car is still not fully repaired. The initial 
repairs were delayed because further damage was found and there were problems getting 
parts. Mr B had a courtesy car during this time and so he was kept mobile. I think that was 
fair and reasonable and I cant say that Advantage caused avoidable delays in this time. 
Then the issue with the warning light arose when the car was returned to Mr B. Over the 
next three months, Mr B had to take his car back and forth to the garage at least four times. 
Advantage said the warning light issue was unrelated to the accident. But it said it had fixed 
it as a gesture of goodwill. However, the car still failed its MOT three months later. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
Our usual approach when there is a dispute about repairs is that we expect an independent 
assessor to be appointed to decide whether or not the issue is accident-related. But 
Advantage didnt do this at the time. It relied on its in-house engineers view that the warning 
light issue wasnt related to the accident. 
Advantage didnt appoint an independent assessor until our Investigator requested this in 
November 2021. The assessor thought the issue could have been accident-related and that 
it should be covered by the claim. And Advantage then agreed to carry out further repairs. 
But it still hasnt done this, and I think this further delay has caused Mr B further avoidable 
frustration and inconvenience. 
So I think Advantage has taken too long to fully repair Mr Bs car. I think it returned the car to 
him without sufficient checks. I think it should have obtained an independent assessors 
report earlier to establish whether or not the warning light issue was accident-related. And, 
when it had accepted this, I think it should have promptly carried out further repairs. 
During this time, Mr B has been caused significant avoidable frustration and stress. Hes not 
been provided with the courtesy car he was entitled to by the policys terms and conditions 
for over a year. During this time, I think Mr B has reasonably mitigated his losses by using 
public transport and relying on friends and family. I think it was reasonable for him to wait 
until the outcome of his complaint was decided before replacing his car. 
To put things right, Mr B doesnt want his car repaired. He wants Advantage to replace it with 
a similar car or for Advantage to pay him its market value. But this isnt what his policy 
provides. From the engineers comments Ive see, Mr Bs car is repairable and, in keeping 
with the policy terms and conditions, I think Advantage should now fully repair it. 
I note that Advantage has said the car will be booked into a dealers garage. And I expect 
that the repairs will be checked thoroughly before the car is returned to Mr B. I hope that 
gives Mr B more confidence that the repairs will be carried out correctly. 
Advantage offered Mr B £300 compensation in total for issues with his claim. Our 
Investigator recommended that Advantage should pay Mr B £900 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by its handling of his claim. This was for issues up to November 
2021. 
But I can see that Mr B has been caused further frustration over the past two months when 
Advantage hasnt done what it has agreed to do in a timely manner. Mr B has told us that 
hes now lost his job because of his lack of transportation. So I think Advantage should pay 
Mr B £200 further compensation for this trouble and upset, making £1,100 in total. Ive 
explained this to Mr B and Advantage. Advantage had no further comments to make. Mr B 
asked for me to issue a final decision and so I have done so. 
Advantage has also agreed to pay Mr B £10 a day compensation for loss of use of his car 
from the date he was without a courtesy car, 14 November 2020, to the date it is returned 
fully repaired. I think thats fair and reasonable compensation for the alternative travel costs 
Mr B has incurred in this time. 
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following, as its already agreed to 
do:
1. Arrange for Mr Bs car to be fully repaired at a dealers garage and carry out sufficient 
checks that these repairs are complete.
2. Pay Mr B £1,100 compensation in total for the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service in handling his claim.
3. Pay Mr B £10 a day compensation for loss of use of his car from 14 November 2020 until 
the date the car is returned to him fully repaired.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman