DRN-3141870
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the service Revolut Ltd provided when he transferred funds from his 
pension into his Revolut account.
  
What happened
Mr N arranged for a lump sum payment from his pension provider to be transferred to his 
GBP Revolut account. The funds were received into the Revolut account in EUR on 
14 December 2020. 
Revolut got in touch with Mr N via their APP on 14 December 2020 as they needed some 
information to carryout necessary checks on the funds. Mr N provided the information and 
the adviser confirmed the transaction had been successfully completed.
The next day Mr N contacted Revolut via the APP as he was concerned over £500 had gone 
missing. Revolut tried to reassure Mr N that funds hadnt gone missing and confirmed the 
balance held in GBP and EUR. Mr N then raised concerns his account was blocked as he 
was unable to transfer funds out of the account.
The adviser explained that there was still a review in progress on the account and asked for 
some information. Mr N confirmed he had already sent this information twice. The adviser 
escalated Mr Ns concerns to the relevant team and said theyd be in touch. Mr N sent 
messages daily raising concern about the balance until Revolut responded on 18 December 
2020 asking for further information. Mr N provided this information but had no further 
response. Mr N sent regular messages asking for someone to respond and indicating he 
wished to raise a complaint. Revolut responded on 30 December 2020 asking for further 
information which Mr N provided the same day.
Revolut got back in touch on 6 January 2021 to confirm everything was sorted out on Mr Ns 
account. Mr N asked them to apply the exchange rate from the day of transfer. The adviser 
indicated this has been done but Mr N raised further concern that it hadnt been actioned. 
Revolut explained that the money was sent and received in EUR and they do not exchange 
funds when received, instead customers can exchange this in the APP at any time. Mr N 
went on to exchange the funds.
Revolut responded to Mr Ns complaint on 1 March 2021. They accepted there had been 
some inconvenience, but the checks carried out to verify the funds were required and 
necessary. As a gesture of goodwill offered an upgrade to their premium service for one 
month.
Mr N remained unhappy so referred his concerns to this service. As our investigator was 
unable to resolve things, the complaint was passed to me. And in October 2021, I issued a 
provisional decision, which said:
Revolut are required to carry out due diligence checks for security purposes and to comply 
with anti-money laundering regulations. There was a delay from Revolut receiving the funds 
and Mr N being able to access them. Revolut have explained that they were required to 
verify the funds to satisfy regulations. And it wasnt unreasonable of them to request 
information for them to complete these checks.
Revolut have explained the time it took for this to be resolved was impacted by the nature of 
the review as well as a high demand in the team looking into these checks. It took around 
three weeks for Mr N to access his funds. Whilst this may be a little longer than Id have 
expected, it was during the festive period and I think this added to the time overall.
Whilst I recognise that these checks can take some time and were necessary, it was 
unfortunate that Revolut didnt fully explain to Mr N at the outset that these checks were 
ongoing and what this meant for Mr Ns account during that time. If they had I think this 
would have managed his expectations.
Once he was able to access his funds Mr N raised concerns that Revolut had opened a EUR 
account without his permission.
Revolut account terms say:
Your account is a virtual account that holds your e-money. It may hold e-money in different 
currencies at the same time. E-money is an electronic alternative to cash. If you or someone 
else gives us money in one currency, well issue an equivalent value of e-money in that 
currency. Well store the e-money in your account, and other people will accept it as 
payment.
So, I think they have been clear that they will store any money received in the same 
currency it was received in.
Mr N says he held a GBP account with Revolut and didnt authorise them to open an 
account in EUR. The terms say they will issue an equivalent value of e-money in the same 
currency it was received in. So as Revolut received the funds in EUR they held the money in 
EUR in a sub pocket of the account. Mr N feels Revolut have breached legislation by not 
making him aware or seeking his authorisation before opening a EUR sub account.
However, given the terms I dont think theyve been unreasonable here.
Once the funds were available Mr N wanted Revolut to apply the exchange rate at the time 
of transfer as it had fluctuated during the checking process. Revolut explained they do not 
exchange funds when received and it was up to the customer to do this within the APP.
In Revoluts terms they say:
Keep your currency consistent  Its important that any payment to your account is made in 
the currency of your account. Otherwise, the payment will be converted to the currency of 
your account. This means that your account might be credited with more or less than you 
expected. We wont be responsible for any losses if this happens.
Ive asked Revolut about this and they have explained that this should be read in conjunction 
with clause 12 of the terms entirely and that ultimately, its for the sending bank to convert to 
the appropriate currency. I can see Mr N had requested his funds to be transferred in GBP. 
However, this didnt happen. And whilst Revolut suggest they would convert the payment to 
the currency of the account held, in this case GBP, I dont think it was practical for them to 
have done so here.
Had they converted the funds at the point of transfer, before carrying out the required 
checks, this couldve been problematic if for any reason Revolut found the need to return the funds. This could have also led to further currency exchange losses so I can see why 
Revolut held the funds in the currency they received them in.
Converting the funds might have been more favourable to Mr N and I appreciate why he felt 
strongly about this as the exchange rate had worsened for him. However, this could have 
also gone in his favour if the exchange rates had improved, it was unfortunate it didnt, but I 
cant hold Revolut responsible for that. The checks were reasonable and had the funds been 
transferred in GBP by the sending bank as requested, this wouldnt have been an issue.
Mr N was also unhappy hed been charged an exchange fair usage fee when exchanging his 
funds to GBP. Having looked at the terms of the account, its clear that no fee is charged for 
exchanging up to £1,000 per month. Anything over that is charged at 0.5%. So as Mr N 
exchanged quite a large sum of money over the fair exchange amount I think Revolut have 
been fair charging a fee here.
Delays
Mr N has said he had lost out on investment opportunities whilst waiting for the funds to be 
released. However, whilst I can understand Mr Ns disappointment here, as explained 
Revolut didnt do anything wrong in processing the checks.
Whilst the checks were in progress, Mr N on several occasions reached out to understand 
what was happening. On 18 December 2020 Mr N replied to a message from Revolut and 
provided information requested. He then asked for assistance, he was clearly distressed as 
he thought his funds had disappeared, but the adviser didnt respond. He then sent regular 
messages follow this looking for support, but he didnt receive a reply for several days. 
Revolut responded to his messages on 30 December 2020.
I understand Revolut have said if Mr N checked the EUR account information as advised 
previously, he would have seen funds were not missing. However, considering the chat was 
Mr Ns only form of contact and he was clearly confused by the fluctuating exchange rate, I 
think Revolut could have done more to keep Mr N updated and reassure him about his 
funds.
Revolut have offered, as a gesture of goodwill, a free upgrade to Revoluts premiums service 
for one month. I dont think this fairly compensates Mr N for the distress and inconvenience 
he went through in having to persistently contact Revolut seeking answers at a time where 
he was clearly distressed and concerned. And he was left for a number of days without a 
response, so he was unaware what the current situation was with the funds.
Considering the impact on Mr N, I think Revolut should compensate Mr N £150.
For the reasons explained above, subject to any further information I receive from either 
Mr N or Revolut Ltd, my provisional decision is that Revolut Ltd should pay Mr N £150 to 
compensate for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Whilst Mr N wasnt entirely satisfied with the outcome, he didnt have anything further for me 
to consider and accepted the provisional decision. 
Revolut accepted the service provided should have been better but didnt feel they were 
responsible for the root cause of the distress Mr N experienced. They felt Mr N could have 
mitigated his circumstances by checking the APP and this would have alleviated his distress. 
But overall due to the level of service provided they agreed with the award made.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional 
decision.
For the reasons explained, I think Revolut could have done more. Whilst I agree the APP 
held the information about Mr Ns accounts, he was still confused by the fluctuating 
exchange rate and was left without a response for a number of days. This caused 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience to Mr N.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that Revolut Ltd should pay Mr N £150 to compensate for the distress 
and inconvenience it caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman