DRN-3473778
The complaint
Mr L complains about the delays in Covea Insurance plc dealing with his personal accident 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr L holds a personal accident policy, which provides a number of benefits in the event of an 
accident.
Unfortunately, Mr L was involved in an accident in January 2019, which led to his 
hospitalisation. Covea considered claims under the policy for hospitalisation and permanent 
loss of use of limbs. Covea accepted the claim for hospitalisation, and paid benefit. 
However, Covea thought that the claim in respect of permanent loss of use ought to be 
delayed as Mr L was still receiving treatment. Unhappy with this, Mr L brought a complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Covea had 
caused any avoidable delays. 
Mr L didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L says he sent the claim form to Covea by post in July 2019, though I understand Covea 
had no record of receiving it. Mr L therefore re-sent the claim form in November 2019. After 
assessing the claim, Covea accepted that Mr L had a valid claim for hospitalisation benefit. 
This was paid this in January 2020. Im satisfied this was a reasonable timeframe. 
Mr L initially raised some concerns about the level of hospitalisation benefit that Covea paid, 
though this aspect of his complaint has now been resolved. I therefore dont need to make a 
finding on this.
Covea also considered a claim for permanent total loss of use to limbs. However, it delayed 
making a claims decision about this. Given that Mr L was still receiving treatment at the time 
(and therefore his condition may have improved), I think that was reasonable. Covea did 
advise Mr L that claims for permanent loss of use can take some time before reaching 
conclusion, and that its only once treatment is complete that a final medical view can be 
given. 
I see that in 2021, Covea concluded that Mr L didnt meet the policys loss of use definition. 
However, it thought it may be fair to pay a partial settlement. It therefore arranged for Mr L to 
have a medical assessment on 19 July 2021. Initially Mr L agreed to this, but he later 
decided not to attend.
The policy explains that permanent total and irrecoverable loss of use of a limb is covered. I 
understand there was some dispute between the parties over which version of the policy 
terms should be applied in respect of the hospitalisation claim, and so Mr L has concerns 
about this in respect of the loss of use of limbs claim. 
To be clear, the policy terms in force at the date of Mr Ls accident would apply to any claim 
for loss of use of limbs. Though in any event, the cover for loss of use of limbs is the same in 
both versions of the policy, even if the wording differs slightly.   
As I understand it, Mr L experienced sensory impairment in his limbs following the accident. 
However, Mr L accepts that he hasnt lost the total use of any of his limbs. That being the 
case, Im satisfied it was appropriate for Covea to consider a partial settlement. 
It was of course up to Mr L whether or not he attended the medical assessment. However, in 
cases where an insurer isnt able to determine a percentage of someones loss of use from 
existing medical records/reports, then Id expect the insurer to arrange for them to have an 
assessment, in order to establish this. 
Mr L has explained to this service that he isnt under the care of a specialist. It therefore 
seems to me that a medical assessment would be an appropriate way forward. 
Mr L has also told this service that he thinks Covea should assess his claim under the 
quadriplegia section of cover, rather than loss of use of a limb. Under this section of cover, 
Mr L would need to have permanent paralysis of all four limbs. Once Mr L has the medical 
assessment, I would expect Covea to consider a partial settlement under the most 
appropriate section of cover, depending on the medical officers findings. 
If Mr L wants Covea to consider the matter further, he should contact Covea directly in order 
for it to rearrange a medical assessment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman