DRN-3342880
The complaint
Mr M complains Domestic & General Insurance Plc provided an unsuitable replacement 
vacuum cleaner when settling his insurance claim.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr M made a claim on his D&G vacuum cleaner protection insurance policy. 
His vacuum cleaner wasnt working properly. D&G decided it wasnt repairable, so said it 
would provide a replacement. Mr M told D&G he didnt want one from the same 
manufacturer. He was given a choice of different makes and models. He chose a model from 
the range offered. 
In July 2021 Mr M complained to D&G that he was unable to buy replacement bags for the 
new vacuum cleaner. In September 2021 he told D&G he wasnt happy with the 
replacements performance. He asked to be provided with a cash settlement, rather than the 
vacuum cleaner. 
D&G issued a response to Mr Ms complaint. It said it had provided a suitable replacement 
based on the model and specifications of his original vacuum cleaner. It said he should 
resolve any issue with it through the manufacturers guarantee. It didnt agree to a cash 
settlement. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with D&Gs response. He wants it to provide a cash settlement as he 
feels the replacement vacuum cleaner isnt fit for purposes. Our investigator felt D&G had 
provided a reasonable replacement for Mr M. So she didnt recommend it do anything 
differently. As Mr M didnt accept her assessment the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require D&G to provide Mr M with a cash settlement or to 
do anything differently.
Ive considered if D&G settled Mr Ms claim fairly and reasonably  and in line with the terms 
of his policy. These say, in the event of a breakdown, D&G can decide to repair, replace or 
provide a cash settlement for the vacuum cleaner. The terms also say when D&G chooses 
to replace it will arrange a product of the same or similar make and technical specifications 
as the original. 
As the policy terms allow D&G to choose to provide a replacement, I cant say it acted 
unfairly by not providing a cash settlement originally. Mr M was given a choice of 
replacements. It seems he went on to make his own choice. 
I accept hes disappointed with the performance of the vacuum cleaner he chose. Ive 
considered what hes said about it. But I havent seen enough to persuade me its not fit for 
purpose. Im satisfied its of a similar make, model and technical specification as the original. 
So D&G acted fairly and in line with the terms of his policy by providing it. 
The vacuum cleaner was still under guarantee when Mr M complained to D&G. So it said, if 
its faulty, he should contact its manufacturer. That seems a fair and reasonable suggestion 
to me. 
Mr Ms complained he cant buy bags for the replacement vacuum cleaner. He says thats 
because its a non-UK model. In response D&G provided him with details of a source of 
bags. I can see bags can be bought online from UK providers. So Im not persuaded the 
vacuum isnt a model sold in, or intended for, the UK. 
Overall Im satisfied D&G settled Mr Ms claim fairly and in line with the terms of his policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman