DRN-1065418
 
The complaint
Mr F complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) is no longer providing him 
with money transfer offers on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr F has taken several money transfer offers from Barclays over the last two years or so. 
But Barclays hasnt offered him any in recent months. Mr F thought this was because of his 
age, as he turned 65 early in 2019. He thought this was unfair so he complained to Barclays.
In its final response Barclays said Mr F wasnt currently eligible for an offer, but it would 
regularly review his account and let him know if that changed. It said it couldnt share details 
of its money transfer criteria as they were commercially confidential, but it said its decision 
wasnt based on Mr Fs age. It seems Mr F had pointed out Barclays recently increased his 
credit limit, as Barclays went on to explain that its credit limit criteria were different to its 
money transfer criteria.
Mr F brought his complaint to our service. He said Barclays wasnt giving him money transfer 
offers, only balance transfer offers which he didnt want. He thought this was because he 
was over 65, and Barclays might not want to lend unsecured credit to older people. Mr F 
said he was only using some of his account credit limit and had a very good credit record.
After looking into things, our investigator said Barclays hadnt done anything wrong. He said 
Barclays wasnt obliged to give Mr F any promotional offers on his credit card account, and it 
had assured Mr F his age wasnt a factor. Our investigator also said the criteria Barclays set 
for its promotional offers was a commercial decision it was entitled to make.
Mr F disagreed, as he didnt believe Barclays and thought it had a policy of not lending to 
people over 65. So his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Before I explain my reasons, I note Mr F has more recently asked us to investigate a similar 
complaint about Barclays not giving him a money transfer when he asked for one in    
October 2019  I will consider that in a separate decision.
 
I also note Mr F says he might raise further complaints about Barclays in relation to it giving 
him money transfer offers. Id like to be clear that if Mr F brings such complaints to our 
service, then we might decide not to investigate them as we dont look again at complaints 
weve already considered.Im satisfied theres nothing in the terms and conditions of Mr Fs credit card account that 
obliges Barclays to provide him with promotional offers. The terms only say We may also 
offer you promotions on your account, which might result in different interest rates on your 
promotional balance.
Therefore promotional offers, such as money transfers, are something Barclays can choose 
to offer Mr F at its discretion. They are not something Mr F is entitled to. Whether and when 
Barclays makes promotional offers will depend on a number of things, not just how well Mr F 
has managed his account. Barclays can set its own criteria for its offers  its entitled to 
decide who it lends to and under what circumstances. So I dont think Barclays has acted 
unfairly in giving Mr F offers at some times but not at other times.
I appreciate Mr F says Barclays hasnt recently given him money transfers because of his 
age. As Ive said, its for Barclays to decide who is eligible to receive its promotions. But in 
any case, theres nothing in the evidence Ive seen to suggest Mr Fs age was the reason 
Barclays didnt give him any offers. And Barclays has confirmed its decisions about offers 
arent based on Mr Fs age. 
Im satisfied Barclays hasnt done anything wrong by not providing Mr F with money transfer 
offers on his credit card account. Therefore Im not asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman