DRN-3516340
The complaint
Miss P has complained about the lack of support Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) gave her when 
she was in financial difficulty. She says the fees it applied to her account were 
disproportionate and caused hardship.
What happened
Miss P complained to Lloyds about the charges applied to her account. Lloyds agreed it 
shouldve stepped in earlier and identified she was in need of long-term support and 
refunded all charges applied to her account after November 2019.
Miss P was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service. Our adjudicator 
looked at all of this and initially thought that Lloyds shouldve stepped in from October 2016 
because her statements showed large amounts of borrowing on payday loans. But on review 
he thought that due to high amounts of non-essential spending that Lloyds had done enough 
to put things right.
Miss P disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. I issued my provisional 
decision on 6 May 2022 and explained why I was proposing to uphold Miss Ps complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Both Lloyds and Miss P have come back with further information  but none of it 
new information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P has asked in her response to my provisional decision whether a separate complaint 
about her credit card should be included in this decision. To confirm my decision only deals 
with Miss Ps overdraft and any complaint about a credit card will be dealt with separately.  
Miss P has also asked whether there is grounds for the cut off to be earlier. But after 
examining at all the evidence Im satisfied that the point Lloyds shouldve stepped in should 
remain at the date stated in my provisional decision. 
In my provisional decision I said that:
Ive seen that Miss P has in some of his correspondence referred to the proportionality of 
the charges applied to her account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying 
that I havent considered whether the various amounts Lloyds charged over the years were 
fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services, what services it provides and to who is a 
commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Lloydss various charging structures or processes per se, 
it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss P if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to Miss Ps account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Miss P was experiencing financial difficulty. And where this 
is the case, Id expect Lloyds to put Miss P in the position shed be in now if she hadnt paid 
any further interest and charges on that credit. 
This means Id normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable.
Initially our adjudicator thought Lloyds should refund all interest and charges from October 
2016 as Miss Ps statements showed she was in a cycle of repeated payday loans. 
Following Lloyds response and further review our adjudicator changed his view on this and 
felt that despite the high amount of payday loans there were also regular transactions 
relating to non-essential spending such as holidays and hotels.
Im in agreement with our adjudicator here. Although I accept Miss Ps statements show 
payday lending and use of credit cards, there was a regular healthy salary coming into the 
account which brought her overdraft down and sometimes paid it off. And while Im not 
seeking to make retrospective value judgements over her expenditure, nonetheless there 
are significant and at times large amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions including holidays and hotels. 
I accept what Miss P has told us that she had to travel for work and that these were work 
related costs. But there is no evidence to suggest Lloyds knew this and therefore that these 
transactions werent discretionary spending. So I dont think that Lloyds ought to have 
realised Miss P was in financial difficulty when it reviewed Miss Ps account in October 2016.
But I do think Lloyds shouldve stepped in before it did because I can see by September 
2017 her statements show more transactions around paying back credit rather than 
discretionary spending. And although a healthy salary was still coming into the account 
which brought the overdraft down  almost immediately it went back up again - and this 
cycle continues. 
By this point, Lloyds ought to have realised that Miss Ps use of her overdraft was 
unsustainable. As she was in a cycle of repeated payday borrowing. In these circumstances, 
Lloyds ought to have realised that Miss P was at a significant risk of being unable to repay 
what she already owed. So Lloyds should have stopped providing the overdraft on the same 
terms and treated Miss P with forbearance rather than charge even more interest, fees and 
charges on the overdraft.
Miss P ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I currently think 
that Lloyds didnt treat Miss P fairly and she lost out because of what it did wrong. And this 
means that it should put things right.
Ive considered both parties submissions but ultimately they dont give me any reason to 
depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this 
complaint.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ps complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Ps current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from 7 October 2017 are removed.AND
If Lloyds considers it appropriate to record negative information on Miss Ps credit 
file, Lloyds should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft from 7 October 2017. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss P along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Ps credit file. Lloyds can also 
reduce Miss Ps overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it 
appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Miss P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ps complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman