DRN-4116989
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Mr L and Mrs W applied for, with Santander UK Plc. 
Theyre unhappy that the application took so long that they lost out on the low interest rate 
theyd applied for. They ended up taking a mortgage with a different lender at a higher rate, 
and say Santander should compensate them for the loss.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr L and Mrs W and Santander. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which 
has been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr L and Mrs W being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of what happened 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr L and Mrs W applied for the mortgage in October 2021, through a third party mortgage 
broker. They requested a five-year fixed rate mortgage; the rate was 0.99%. The application 
was held up when a credit search revealed adverse information recorded by another 
creditor. This was looked into and it turned out the other creditor had recorded the 
information incorrectly. 
The other creditor agreed to change the information; Santander was willing to review the 
initial decision not to lend, provided it received written confirmation from the other creditor 
that the mistake had been corrected. Unfortunately, by the time this happened, the 
completion deadline for the five-year fixed rate (4 March 2022) had already passed. 
There then followed an exchange of correspondence, in which Santander mistakenly 
referred to the deadline for the product as being either 28 or 30 March 2022. This led Mr L 
and Mrs W to believe they could have had the five-year fixed rate after all and they 
complained that theyd lost the opportunity to do so. Eventually, Santander told them theyd 
need to choose a new, higher, interest rate product.
Mr L and Mrs W obtained a mortgage with their existing lender. The rate theyre paying on 
the mortgage is 2.34% and is only fixed for two years. Forecasting the likelihood that any 
follow on rate they take after two years will also be higher, Mr L and Mrs W say they could 
be up to £50,000 worse off over the five-year period.
Initially, our investigator was minded to uphold the complaint, thinking the 0.99% fixed rate 
would have been available up to 30 March 2022. But he changed his mind after Santander 
clarified the completion deadline as being 4 March 2022. Instead, he recommended 
Santander pay Mr L and Mrs W £200 compensation for the confusion caused by its incorrect 
references to the later dates.
Santander agreed to settle the complaint on the terms the investigator had recommended, 
but Mr L and Mrs W have asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, Im required to reach my decision on 
the basis of what I consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. 
Thats broadly the same test used by the courts in civil cases,
If Im to award Mr L and Mrs W the compensation theyre seeking, I have to be satisfied that 
Santander made specific errors or omissions in the handling of the application, and that 
those errors or omissions were the sole or over-riding cause of loss, financial or 
non-financial, to Mr L and Mrs W. 
Arranging a mortgage isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. There may be 
anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but occasionally things take 
longer than expected. Also, queries and issues might arise that couldnt have been predicted 
at the outset, and which either delay the application or take it in an unexpected direction. In 
my view, the latter is what happened here, chiefly because of the problem with adverse 
credit file reporting by another creditor. 
I also have to keep in mind that Mr L and Mrs W didnt make their application directly to 
Santander; they engaged a third party (their mortgage broker) to act as intermediary. The 
roles of lender and broker are separate and discrete from each other, and they have different 
responsibilities towards their customers (or potential customers as Mr L and Mrs W 
ultimately didnt become Santander customers). 
Santanders responsibility was to process the application and make a lending decision as 
soon as it was reasonably in a position to do so. Overall, Im persuaded it did that. When the 
problem with credit file reporting cropped up, it was a matter for Santanders discretion what 
needed to be done (and evidenced as having been done) before it would decide whether to 
lend. If that meant requiring written proof from the other creditor that the credit file reporting 
had been corrected, that was Santanders decision to make, and I dont think it would be 
appropriate for me to interfere with that. 
By the time Santander had the evidence it needed, the 4 March 2022 deadline had already 
passed. It wasnt Santanders responsibility to make sure Mr L and Mrs W knew about the 
completion deadline of 4 March 2022; that lay with their broker. Im not investigating the role 
of the broker in this transaction, and to be clear, nothing I say in this decision is intended as, 
or should be inferred as being, a judgement on what the broker did or didnt do. 
Once 4 March 2022 had come and gone, without even a mortgage offer in place, Mr L and 
Mrs W were never going to be able to have a mortgage from Santander on the five-year fixed rate of 0.99%. So I cant fairly say Santander should pay them redress for their 
mortgage being on a higher rate than theyd hoped for. 
Santanders mistake, as evidenced in the various emails Mr L and Mrs W have shared with 
us, was not to make it clear immediately that the five-year fixed rate was no longer available, 
but instead to continue with the process right through March and into April, whilst referring 
variously to an expiry date of 28 or 30 March 2022, both of which were wrong.
Even in the best-ordered situation, some things can or will go wrong in such a complex 
transaction as a house purchase, and some degree of stress and inconvenience is to be 
expected. Taking into consideration everything that both parties have said and provided, and 
mindful of our general approach, I consider that £200 for wrongly raising Mr L and Mr Ws 
expectations about the availability of the five-year fixed rate after it had already expired 
represents fair and reasonable compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I 
direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr L and Mrs W £200. I make no other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman