DRN-2337436
The complaint
Mrs W complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax (HBOS).
What happened
Mrs W complained to HBOS that she had been mis-sold PPI. Mrs W thought that the PPI 
she had covered both her mortgage and a loan. 
HBOS said she had no PPI associated with her mortgage. But she did have a loan she took 
out in 2004 which had PPI associated with it and HBOS upheld her complaint this PPI was 
mis-sold and offered compensation. 
Mrs W didnt agree with what HBOS said or with the amount of compensation it had offered 
so she brought her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said the compensation offered and paid for the PPI mis-sold with the loan 
was fair. And that the mortgage account and the alleged PPI associated with that would be 
considered separately. 
Mrs W remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case.
I would reassure Mrs W that I have seen all correspondence and documents provided 
relating to all her issues, both from when first she submitted her complaint to the very recent 
correspondence. I have reviewed everything independently and this has all been taken into 
account when reaching my decision. 
When Mrs W brought her complaint to this service, she said it was about PPI sold to her that 
covered her mortgage. However, the reference number and figures she quoted appeared to 
relate to a loan she had. 
As these were both separate financial products, taken out at different times, if PPI was taken 
out then separate policies would have covered each product. So, we need to look at the 
financial product accounts and any PPI associated with them separately. The mortgage was 
actually taken out through a separate business arm of HBOS so for that reason would also 
need to be considered separately. 
In this decision I am only considering the loan Mrs W took out. The mortgage and any PPI 
associated with that will be looked at separately and addressed in a separate decision. 
HBOS has agreed to uphold the complaint that the PPI policy sold to Mrs W alongside a loan 
in July 2004 was mis-sold. So it has offered to pay Mrs W compensation for the mis-sale. In 
this decision I am considering if the compensation offered to Mrs W is fair. 
Mrs W has stated recently that she never took out a loan with HBOS and was paying 
£177.88 for a PPI policy that covered her mortgage. She has several times provided her 
bank account statements showing a payment out of £177.88 by direct debit to Halifax PLC. 
But this payment was actually to repay a loan of £7,000 she borrowed for her own use and 
also a further amount she borrowed, that was added to the loan, for the cost of the premium 
for a PPI policy to cover the repayments on her loan. This type of single premium policy, 
where the premium amount to be paid to the insurer was borrowed and added to the loan 
was fairly common at the time. The cost each month to repay this loan, including what was 
borrowed for the PPI and also the interest on all the borrowings was £177.88.
Whilst HBOS does not have a copy of the loan agreement Mrs W signed, this is 
understandable due to the time since the loan was applied for in July 2004 and ended in 
November 2005. But HBOS does have some computer records of the accounts Mrs W had 
with the business. 
The records indicate that Mrs W applied for the loan with HBOS in July 2004 and this was to 
be repaid over a 60-month period. However, there was a deferment period for the 
repayments to start at the beginning of the loan. So, whilst the money Mrs W borrowed was 
released in August 2004, the first repayment was made on 1 November 2004. This 
information from HBOS matches the dates on Mrs Ws statements for when repayments 
were made to the loan for the amount of £177.88. 
When she took out that loan, as I have indicated she also bought a single premium PPI 
policy to cover the monthly loan repayments if she was unable to work through accident 
sickness or unemployment. The only financial product this particular PPI policy covered was 
the loan repayments. 
HBOS has agreed the policy was mis-sold so it needs to put the Mrs W as far as possible in 
the position they would have been in if she had never bought the PPI. This means refunding 
the full costs Mrs W paid for the PPI plus paying some compensatory interest for any time 
she was out of pocket.
When Mrs W took out the loan, she borrowed the extra £1,528.91 to pay for the PPI 
premium and as this was added to her loan, she paid interest on it. But Mrs W settled her 
loan early, in November 2005. So the PPI was cancelled early and didnt run for the full term 
that was intended. When the PPI policy was cancelled early a rebate of part of the cost of 
the PPI premium was made.
The rebate was set against the amount still outstanding as the balance of the loan at the 
date of settlement, and so reduced the amount Mrs W had to pay to settle her loan amount. 
The rebate amount removed from the outstanding balance was £790.68. When this amount 
was removed from what Mrs W still owed for her loan at the date of settlement. it didnt 
remove all the PPI premium costs from the outstanding balance. There was still an amount 
outstanding that Mrs W did pay as part of the settlement figure. 
I know Mrs W has said she never received a payment of £790.68 from HBOS, but as Ive 
explained, this was not paid to her directly but removed from the balance she paid on 
settlement.Mrs W only actually made 12 payments of £177.88 to the loan amount, the first in November 
2004 and the last in October 2005. These monthly payments were in total £177.88. This 
amount was repaying the £7,000 Mrs W had borrowed for her own use and the amount of 
£1,528.19 she had borrowed for the PPI premium, plus interest paid on the total borrowed. If 
Mrs W hadnt taken out the PPI the records from HBOS show she would have only paid 
£145.99 for the loan and interest repayments each month. 
So Mrs W overpaid by £31.89 per month. This made the total she paid for the PPI as part of 
her loan repayments, including interest on the premium, of £382.68. In addition, as I have 
indicated above, the rebate set against the loan on settlement did not remove all of the PPI 
from the settlement figure and Mrs W also paid £507.27 towards the PPI premium cost on 
settlement. Therefore, in total Mrs W paid £889.95 for the PPI. 
I can see from HBOS calculations they it has offered to refund this amount plus 
compensatory interest of 8% simple interest on the amounts Mrs W paid for the PPI. HBOS 
also was required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct basic rate tax from the 
compensatory interest.  HBOS sent Mrs W a cheque for £1,693.56 on 11 September 2019, 
this being the total of the PPI costs and compensatory interest after tax.
I have seen all HBOS calculations in working out what Mrs W paid for the PPI and how it 
has worked out the compensatory interest. And I think what it has offered and paid to Mrs W 
in compensation is fair.
I know Mrs W doesnt think what she has been offered and paid is fair. She believes the full 
amount of £177.88 was solely for some sort of insurance. She has stated recently she feels 
this insurance whilst running should have set aside the funds from the premiums and been 
invested by the provider, not utilised for any other purpose but kept until required if 
necessary. PPI was not a policy of this sort. PPI insurance provided cover for a risk if that 
risk arose  that being to pay the monthly repayments on a financial borrowing in the case of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Mrs W has also referred to medical assessments in June 2004 which she believes related to 
taking out the PPI. Medical reports and evidence are only required when making a claim on 
a PPI policy, not when taking one out. It is possible Mrs W has confused some other 
insurance cover she may have been considering in June 2004, with this PPI policy. 
Mrs W has also referred to fraud and illegal acts by HBOS. This service is here to resolve 
specific complaints about financial products to reach a fair and reasonable outcome, based 
on the evidence provided by both parties. We are not the regulator of financial businesses, 
that is the Financial Conduct Authority and they would investigate wider allegations relating 
to business practises. 
In this decision I have tried to address the main concerns and issues Mrs W has raised. 
From all the evidence I have seen I am satisfied that Mrs W did take out a loan and 
alongside that a PPI policy. I am not satisfied that the £177.88 Mrs W was paying, as shown 
on her bank statements, was solely for a PPI policy to cover all her financial borrowings. I 
believe this amount was a monthly loan repayment that included the costs of a PPI policy to 
cover repayment of her monthly loan repayments if she was unable to work due to accident, 
sickness or unemployment. The figure of £177.88 related to this is in line with what I would 
expect to be repaid for a loan and PPI, taking into account the amount borrowed.
The PPI policy taken out alongside Mrs Ws loan was mis-sold. And I think the compensation 
that HBOS has offered and paid for this mis-sale is fair. Therefore, I am not upholding 
Mrs Ws complaint that any further compensation is due to her from HBOS for this PPI taken 
out alongside her loan.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think the compensation paid by Bank of Scotland Plc 
trading as Halifax, for the mis-sold PPI associated with Mrs Ws loan is fair, and Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman