DRN-3499352
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined to extend their 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy which was underwritten by 
Aviva. The policy started on 12 February 2020 and expired on 11 February 2021. They paid 
a premium of £959.92 which included declared medical conditions. 
On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) 
advised against all but essential travel. 
On 25 June 2020, Mr S contacted Aviva to ask if their travel policy could be extended as 
they hadnt been able to make use of it due to the Covid-19 travel restrictions that had been 
put in place. Aviva said it couldnt extend the policy, but it could cancel it and provide a 
refund. It also explained that the situation was being reviewed but there was no guarantee 
that extending a policy would be an option. Mr S said he would contact Aviva again in a few 
months. He also explained that they may travel again in December 2020. 
Mr S called Aviva again on 2 December 2020 to ask if it could extend the cover. Aviva 
explained it couldnt extend the cover, but they could cancel the policy and provide a refund. 
Mr S didnt want to do this.
On 23 January 2021, Mr S contacted Aviva again to ask for an extension of their policy as it 
was due for renewal. Aviva said it couldnt do this and a complaint was logged on Mr and 
Mrs S behalf as they were unhappy with the refusal to extend the policy. 
Aviva issued its final response to Mr and Mrs S. It said it doesnt offer extensions on policies 
after the 14-day cooling-off period had passed. But, due to the unprecedented 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19, it was offering pro-rata refunds on policies as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with Avivas response and brought their complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold. She thought Aviva hadnt done 
anything wrong in refusing to extend Mr and Mrs S travel insurance policy. She also thought 
the offer from Aviva to cancel the policy and provide a pro-rata refund was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, 
its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs S complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Mr and Mrs S had an annual travel insurance policy from 12 February 2020 until 11 February 
2021 which provided cover for any number of trips up until the policy end date. Aviva 
provided cover for the risk of a claim being made during the period the policy was in force  
regardless of how many trips were taken during that policy year, and even if no trips were 
taken. In return, the premium set by the insurer would provide cover on the policy for a 
number of listed events, including those medical conditions that were declared by Mr and 
Mrs S.
It's a fundamental principle of insurance law that the premium is not returnable if the insurer 
had commenced to bear the risk. So, even if Mr and Mrs S decided not to travel or were 
unable to travel, there would be no expectation on Aviva to refund the premium. Nor would 
there be an expectation for it to extend the time on risk simply because no trips were made 
during the period of cover. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S comments that they werent able to travel due to the Covid-19 
pandemic and due to Mrs S health reasons. However, Aviva wouldnt be required to extend 
the policy because of this. I can see that Aviva offered to cancel Mr and Mrs S policy on 
both occasions that they called and also suggested that a partial refund of the policy 
premium was an option. Aviva offered this as a gesture of goodwill only and because of the 
unprecedented situation of the Covid-19 pandemic. I think that was fair. However, Mr and 
Mrs S didnt want to take this option and I can understand their reasons for not doing so. But 
there is no section under the terms and conditions of their policy that would mean Aviva 
would need to extend the policy for Mr and Mrs S except if the policyholder couldnt get back 
to the UK before the cover ended. This isnt what happened in Mr and Mrs S situation and I 
dont think it's unreasonable therefore for Aviva to refuse to extend their policy.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs S comments that they followed all the government guidelines 
and that meant Aviva negated all its risk on their policy. Im afraid I dont agree. Aviva 
continued to provide cover on the policy regardless of the government guidelines and 
restrictions that were in place. And although Aviva offered Mr and Mrs S the option to cancel 
their policy and receive a pro-rata refund, this wasnt an option Mr and Mrs S wanted to take 
because they wanted to keep the premium and risk at the same rate that was already 
agreed at the start of the policy period. This isnt how it works however and there is no 
expectation on Aviva to extend the policy cover.
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded that Aviva has treated 
Mr and Mrs S unfairly or unreasonably in not extending their policy cover. I dont think there 
are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask Aviva to do this. It follows therefore 
that I dont require Aviva to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint against Aviva 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman