DRN-3771851
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how MotoNovo Finance Limited dealt with the unwinding of his 
agreement when he rejected a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. At the point of supply the car was around 6 years old. The cash price of the 
car was £12,799. Mr B paid a deposit of £100 and part exchanged his previous car for 
£2000.
Within a day of purchase, the car broke down. The gearbox stopped working and there was 
smoke coming from the engine.
Mr B contacted the supplying dealer, who advised Mr B that he had breakdown insurance. 
Mr B didnt have the paperwork with him, so the supplying dealer arranged for a breakdown 
vehicle to recover the car. The breakdown vehicle couldnt take Mr B home, so he had to 
arrange a taxi.
The following day, the supplying dealership contacted Mr B about the car. Mr B said he 
wanted to exchange the car for something similar. The supplying dealer collected Mr B from 
his home and, after signing some paperwork, Mr B collected another car of the same make.
Mr B says he didnt realise that hed entered into a second finance agreement. He thought 
he had swapped one car for another.
Mr B summarised his complaint as follows:
-there were two finance agreements in existence at the same time showing more than 
£20,000 on his credit report
-he was concerned about the negative impact this might have on his credit report
-the supplying dealer didnt keep him updated about what was happening
-he never received a no interest in the vehicle letter when the finance agreement was settled
-he never received a finance agreement for the second car
-he wasnt initially advised that it could take up to 60 days for the credit reference agencies 
to remove the first agreement from his credit file
In response to Mr Bs complaint, MotoNovo offered £125 for any inconvenience caused. It 
also apologised that Mr B hadnt been informed about the timescale for removing the 
information about the first agreement from his credit file.
Mr B wasnt happy with MotoNovos response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that although MotoNovo couldve 
explained to Mr B earlier that he couldnt simply swap the car for a different one without 
entering into a new finance agreement, overall MotoNovo had acted quickly to provide Mr B 
with a replacement car. The investigator said she couldnt hold MotoNovo responsible for the 
length of time it took for the credit reference agencies to update Mr Bs credit file, and that 
there was no evidence that having two agreements on the credit file had negatively impacted 
Mr B. The investigator concluded that overall, the compensation of £125, the 12 months 
warrant and the free tank of petrol from the dealership was a fair and reasonable resolution 
to Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B didnt agree. He said hed never been told that he was entering into a second finance 
agreement and said that if hed known about it, he wouldve declined it. Mr B said the only 
information he was given by the dealership was that they would exchange the faulty car. Mr 
B also said hed never been provided with a copy of the second agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account all of the information provided by Mr B and MotoNovo. In this 
decision, Ill limit my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on a particular 
point, it isnt because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Its important that I set out what I can  and cant  consider in this decision. Ill be looking at 
whether MotoNovo handled Mr Bs complaint fairly. But I wont be able to look at whether the 
supplying dealer treated Mr B fairly, because this is outside of my jurisdiction.
The essence of Mr Bs complaint is that he wasnt made aware that he was entering into a 
second finance agreement when he was provided with a replacement car. Hes said that this 
resulted in him having two finance agreements showing on his credit file.
Ive looked at both of the finance agreements. The first agreement was entered into on 2 
August 2022 and the second agreement was entered into on 4 August 2022. I can see that 
Mr B was supplied with the same model of car under the second agreement, albeit that it 
was slightly newer than the first car.
Mr B has said that he thought he was simply swapping the car, and that he didnt realise that 
he was entering onto a second finance agreement. I cant be certain of exactly what 
discussions took place at the time between Mr B and the supplying dealer, but I can see that 
Mr B signed the second finance agreement. I think any confusion  about a second finance 
agreement could have been avoided if both the supplying dealer and MotoNovo had 
explained to Mr B that he couldnt change the car and remain on the same finance 
agreement, but that it was necessary to end the first finance agreement and enter into a new 
one.
That said, it appears that MotoNovo acted quickly to replace the faulty car with a 
replacement one and arrange a new agreement so that Mr B was kept mobile.
Mr B has said that he was worried when he found out that there were two finance 
agreements on his credit file. He had concerns that this would impact negatively on him.
Ive thought about whether there was an impact on Mr B, but I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that his credit score was affected, or that he was declined credit, or offered credit on less favourable terms as a result of the two finance agreements. And as far as Im aware, 
the first agreement has been removed from Mr Bs credit file now.
That said, I do think that MotoNovo should have explained to Mr B that although the first 
finance agreement had ended, it would take the credit reference agencies 6  8 weeks to 
remove the agreement from Mr Bs credit file. MotoNovo didnt explain this to Mr B at the 
time he entered into the second finance agreement.
Mr B has said that he hasnt received a copy of the second finance agreement. I can see 
that our investigator obtained a copy from MotoNovo and has provided a copy of this to Mr 
B.
I understand that being supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality has caused 
Mr B distress and inconvenience. As Ive said, I think MotoNovo couldve done more to 
explain things to Mr B. MotoNovo has acknowledged that there were service failings and has 
apologised and paid compensation of £125 to Mr B.
Taking everything into account, I think the compensation already paid is a fair and 
reasonable sum and in line with what this service would otherwise award. So I wont be 
asking MotoNovo to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman