DRN-2706477
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) unfairly calculated the 
early repayment charge (ERC) when they repaid their mortgage early.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B held a mortgage with RBS that was initially taken in 2017. In September 2019 
Mr and Mrs B agreed a new two-year fixed rate deal on their mortgage. The fixed rate period 
of this deal was due to end on 1 February 2022. 
In December 2020 Mr and Mrs B redeemed their mortgage with RBS as they sold their 
property. The funds were sent from Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor to RBS on 4 December 2020.
Mr and Mrs B have explained that before redeeming the mortgage, they discussed the 
potential of making an overpayment of 10% of the mortgage balance, and then redeeming 
the remaining balance. Theyve further explained that as their mortgage deal allowed a 10% 
annual overpayment without any penalty fees, it made sense to make use of this allowance 
before fully redeeming their mortgage and paying an ERC on the remaining  and 
consequently lower  balance. 
Mr and Mrs B say that at the time Mr B was discussing the above with RBS on the phone, 
his solicitor received the mortgage redemption figure from RBS. The solicitor  without 
knowing about the conversation that was happening between Mr B and RBS  paid off the 
full balance of the mortgage, including the ERC on the full outstanding balance. So Mr and 
Mrs B say theyve now lost out on the 10% penalty-free overpayment that they couldve 
made before redemption. 
Mr and Mrs B raised this issue with RBS and they were advised that it should be logged as a 
complaint, which it was. RBS responded to the complaint but it didnt accept that it had done 
anything wrong. So it hasnt agreed to repay Mr and Mrs B any of the ERC that they paid. Mr 
and Mrs B werent happy with RBSs response, so they brought their complaint here.
Our investigator considered what had happened and didnt recommend the complaint should 
be upheld. Whilst it was clear that he understood the unfortunate timing of what had 
happened and agreed that Mr and Mrs B had lost out because of that, he didnt think this 
was a result of RBS treating them unfairly or making a mistake. So he didnt think RBS 
needed to do anything to put things right. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. They maintained that the facility to make an overpayment on the 
outstanding balance, and repaying the mortgage in full, were linked and should therefore 
one should take the other into account. And they explained that this is a question of fairness, 
as theyve been loyal customers of RBS for many years.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with what the investigator said so as things havent been 
resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know thisll come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B, but Im afraid I agree with the 
outcome the investigator reached. Ill explain why.
Id firstly like to say that I fully understand the reason that Mr and Mrs B have raised this 
complaint. Its fair to say that very unfortunate timing has led to the event happening, and I 
appreciate how unfair that feels.   
But in fairness to both parties Ive carefully considered the mortgage agreements in question 
here, in order to decide whether RBS has complied with them.
I can see that in both agreements  thats to say the initial one from 2017, and the rate 
variation in 2019  there are explanations of how overpayments work, as well as charges 
applicable to repaying the full mortgage before the end of the fixed rate.
Under a section entitled Early repayment the documents explain:
If you repay all of part of your mortgage on or before the end of the fixed rate term, you will have to 
pay an Early Repayment Charge on the amount repaid
The document goes on to explain in the next section Flexible features, under the heading 
Overpayments:
You can overpay a maximum of 10% of your outstanding mortgage balance in each 12 month period 
commencing on completion of your mortgage and continuing from each anniversary of that date until 
the end date of this rate, without incurring an Early Repayment Charge. If your mortgage is made up 
of more than one part you can overpay up to a maximum of 10% of the outstanding balance of each 
part.
An Early Repayment Charge will be incurred on any overpayment that exceeds the annual 10% limit. 
Please refer to Section 7 for information on Early Repayment Charges that would be incurred if any 
overpayment exceeds the annual 10% limit.
Having considered these two sections of the mortgage agreements, I dont agree that the 
10% overpayment allowance, and repaying the mortgage in full are linked. And I also dont 
agree that RBS should only charge the ERC on 90% of the full balance, to take into account 
the 10% overpayment allowance. I do understand why Mr and Mrs B wouldve liked this to 
happen, but I dont think RBS has set out that it would do that, or made a promise of 
something that it then hasnt fulfilled. 
I note that the agreement says that An Early Repayment Charge will be incurred on any 
overpayment that exceeds the annual 10% limit. So I can see why Mr and Mrs B consider 
that the full repayment applies to this statement too. But thats not the case here. As theres 
a separate section related to full early repayment, and as this statement only refers to 
overpayments exceeding 10%, I havent concluded that this is unclear or misleading. Im satisfied that RBS hasnt acted unfairly by charging the ERC on the full balance that was 
repaid by Mr and Mrs B on 4 December 2020. I fully understand their intention to repay 10% 
of the balance first, and I agree this wouldve been beneficial to them, I can only tell RBS to 
put things right if its responsible for what went wrong. And as the Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor 
repaid their full balance before they were able to reduce it as they mightve liked to, RBS has 
correctly calculated the ERC on the full amount repaid, as described above. 
Ive also checked the dates of what happened, to ensure that the ERC was payable and 
correct. And I can see that the mortgage agreement taken in September 2019 explains that 
an ERC of 2% of the outstanding balance is payable, if the mortgage is redeemed on or 
before 31 January 2021. So as the mortgage was redeemed on 4 December 2020, Im 
satisfied that the 2% ERC was payable, and it looks as though thats what was charged. 
Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs B that Ive thought carefully about everything theyve said. 
And I can understand why theyre aggrieved about this situation, especially being such 
longstanding and loyal customers of RBS. But having thought about everything that both 
sides have said, I havent concluded that RBS has acted unfairly. So Im afraid I dont uphold 
this complaint.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman