DRN-4423027
The complaint
Miss A complains about the management and administration by Stellantis Financial Services 
UK Limited trading as PSA Finance UK (PSA) of her conditional sale agreement 
(agreement).
What happened
In April 2021 Miss A entered into an agreement with PSA for a used car costing £25,999. 
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Miss A undertook to make 
60 monthly payments of £557.41 making a total repayable of £33,444.60 at an APR of 
10.9%.
In February 2023 PSA terminated Miss As agreement.
Miss A complained to PSA about its management and administration of her agreement and 
in particular about its decision to terminate it.
In April 2023 PSA issued Miss A with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this FRL 
PSA said it was satisfied that it had done nothing wrong in its management and 
administration of Miss As agreement including taking the decision to terminate it.
In June 2023, and unhappy with PSAs FRL, Miss A complained to our service.
Miss As complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld.
Miss A didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to 
what has already been said.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than it may merit. 
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues 
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I will, however, refer to those crucial aspects 
which impact my decision.
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
I note that Miss A disputes the accuracy of PSAs submissions to our service, in particular 
the accuracy of its very detailed account notes. But I can confirm that I find PSAs 
submissions to our service to be both plausible and persuasive, particularly in the absence 
of any documentary evidence from Miss A to the contrary. Therefore, Im satisfied that PSAs 
submissions to our service can be relied upon as being an accurate record of what has 
happened in this case and when.  
PSAs administration and management of Miss As agreement between April 2021 and 
August 2022
Based on PSAs account notes I can see that during this period PSA granted Miss A two 
payment holidays (of two months and one month), moved her monthly payment date on at 
least one occasion and didnt terminate her agreement despite one or more default notices 
being issued and despite Miss A being late, on several occasions, in making her contractual 
monthly payment.
PSAs administration and management of Miss As agreement between September 2022 
and December 2022
Based on PSAs account notes I can see that in September 2022 Miss A contacted PSA to 
say that she was in financial difficulties. But equally I can see that after doing so Miss A 
failed to constructively engage with PSA further and this failure was despite PSA making 
numerous attempts, through a number of different channels, to contact Miss A. 
PSAs administration and management of Miss As agreement since December 2022
Based on PSAs account notes I can see that on 6 February 2023, after PSA had sent her a 
default notice, Miss A contacted PSA to say that she would pay £557.41 on 7 February 2023 
and send, via a secure link, evidence of her current financial position and circumstances.
On 8 February 2023 Miss A paid PSA £350.00.
On 23 February 2023, and after a number of failed contact attempts, PSA sent Miss A a 
termination notice.
On 24 February 2023 Miss A contacted PSA to discuss the termination notice she had 
received.
On 27 February 2023 Miss A contacted PSA to complain about its decision to terminate her 
agreement. She said as she had paid PSA, on 8 February 2023, £175 and £350 her 
agreement shouldnt have been terminated.
Having considered what both parties have said and submitted, Im satisfied that to avoid her 
agreement being terminated Miss A agreed to, and needed to, pay PSA £557.41 on 
8 February 2023, not £525 and not over two dates, for example 8 February 2023 and 
14 February 2023.
 
Miss A submits that she paid PSA £525 on 8 February 2023 (£350 plus £175). But even if I 
was to accept this is what Miss A did, the fact remains this isnt in line with what Im satisfied 
she agreed to pay PSA on 8 February 2023 to avoid termination of her agreement, that 
being £557.41. 
But unfortunately for Miss A the evidence she has provided in support of her submission that 
she paid PSA £175 only supports that she might have paid it £175 and on 14 February 2023.So given the above I can confirm that Im not persuaded that PSA did anything wrong in its 
administration and management of Miss As agreement or that it did anything wrong in 
terminating Miss As agreement when, and in the manner, that it did. I would also add that 
Ive seen nothing that would lead me to conclude that PSA breached any of its obligations to 
Miss A. Indeed, taking everything into account, I think that PSA has treated Miss A both fairly 
and reasonably.
Having said the above I would remind PSA of its obligations to treat Miss A, where she is in 
financial difficulties, with due consideration and forbearance and of its obligations to assist 
Miss A in trying to locate, if its still lost or unaccounted for, the £175 she says she paid it.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman