DRN-2944117
The complaint
Company W (W) complains that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) mishandled its legal 
expenses insurance claim as the insurer didnt allow it to choose its own solicitors. 
Amtrust use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses insurance, so any reference to 
the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or omissions of such 
intermediaries.   
What happened
W hold a legal expenses policy with Amtrust. It made a claim in March 2020 to cover legal 
costs in connection with a dispute notice issued by another company (N) pursuant to an 
asset management agreement held between both companies. It set out that W had 
breached its obligations under the agreement and stated that an independent barrister would 
be appointed to decide the dispute. 
Amtrust provisionally agreed to cover the claim on 7 April 2020 but sought to restrict Ws 
choice of representation to their own panel solicitors (Firm A) as they said that legal 
proceedings had not been issued. Amtrust said they would first need to refer the matter to 
Firm A to carry out a legal assessment and determine whether the claim was covered.
W says this was unfair as it required urgent representation to protect its interest as soon as 
the dispute notice was served, which was why it had instructed its own solicitors (Firm B) in 
the dispute. On 21 April 2020, Firm B informed Amtrust that an independent person had 
been appointed, and that they had less than two weeks in which to file their written 
submissions. As a result, W continued to instruct Firm B and was eventually successful in 
defending Ns claim, but Amtrust refused to cover the costs.
W complained Amtrust had wrongly denied it the freedom to choose its own solicitors. It says 
that Amtrustss panel solicitors would not have had enough time to confirm cover and file the 
submissions within the tight deadline, which was already being undertaken by Firm B in any 
event (who had also confirmed reasonable prospects). So W complained and said the 
insurer should now cover its legal expenses incurred with Firm B, as they shouldve always 
been appointed from the outset.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought it was reasonable for Amtrust to allow W 
to appoint its own solicitors based on the tight timeframe it had to make submissions, 
because Amtrustss panel solicitors said it would take around 20 working days just for a legal 
assessment to be issued. Amtrust disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why.
W complains that Amtrust acted unfairly because they failed to allow it to choose its own 
solicitor after the dispute notice had been issued. On this matter, the policy terms and 
conditions state:
Freedom to Choose an Appointed Advisor
1. In certain circumstances as set out in 2. below the Person-Insured may choose 
an Appointed Advisor. In all other cases no such right exists and we shall choose 
the Appointed Advisor. 
2. If
a. We agree to start proceedings or proceedings are issued against the Person-
Insured or
b. there is a conflict of interest, the Person-Insured may choose a qualified 
Appointed Advisor except where the Person-Insureds claim is to be dealt with 
by the Employment Tribunal or Small Claims Court where We shall always 
choose the Appointed Advisor.
So the policy terms set out when the policyholder will be allowed to choose their own 
solicitor, but these terms must also be compatible with the Regulation 6 of the Insurance 
Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990 (the 1990 Regulations), which 
further set out when a policyholder should have the freedom to choose their own solicitor: 
(1) Where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or 
other person having such qualifications as may be necessary) to defend, represent or 
serve the interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured shall be 
free to choose that lawyer (or other person).
(2) The insured shall also be free to choose a lawyer (or other person having such 
qualifications as may be necessary) to serve his interests whenever a conflict of 
interest arises.
So, although Amtrustss policy wording only makes reference to the term proceedings, the 
1990 Regulations set out that the insurer will also be obliged to provide freedom of choice 
where recourse is had to a lawyer in connection with any inquiry as well. So, Ive 
considered whether the legal action being taken against W could reasonably have been 
considered as either an inquiry or proceedings. 
It is important to distinguish between the initial discussions or negotiations of a dispute and a 
formal inquiry or proceedings, because it is only once someone is starting the latter that the 
regulations and policy terms allow freedom of choice.
However, an inquiry or legal proceedings are not limited to court action alone. This service 
generally takes the meaning of these two terms to also include other judicial or similar 
processes, such as employment and/or land tribunals. The European Court of Justice has 
also interpreted the terms inquiry and proceedings as extending to procedures that 
constitute a preliminary stage for bringing an action before the administrative court (see 
Buyuktipi v Achmea Schadeverzekeringen NV, Stichting Achmea Rechtsbijstand (Case C-
5/15): ECJ 7 Apr 2016 and Massar v DAS Nederlandse Rechtsbijstand 
Verzekeringsmaatschappij NV (Case C- 460/14): ECJ 7 April 2016, for example).
The dispute notice issued to W in March 2020 claimed that it had breached its obligations 
under the agreement and set out the losses that were being claimed by N (of around £450,000). It didnt state that N was initiating court proceedings, but set out a different 
proposal:
(8) INDEPENDENT PERSON
[N] proposes that [barrister] be appointed as the Independent Person to determine 
this Dispute since this Dispute concerns matters of law rather than matters of 
accounting. 
W has explained that clause 14 of its agreement with N requires disputes to be heard by way 
of an expert determination, which is final and binding upon the parties save in the case of 
manifest error. So, given that the findings of the expert determination were to be final and 
binding on both parties (in the same way it would be if it went to a court or tribunal), Im 
satisfied that it goes beyond being simply an initial discussion or negotiation before 
proceedings and is enough to constitute either an inquiry or legal proceedings.   
Therefore, in line with the 1990 Regulations, Amtrust ought to have allowed W to instruct its 
own solicitors when it originally made its request due to the impending expert determination, 
as it was in need of legal protection during a procedure that was ultimately going to 
determine its legal rights.   
Even if the expert determination could not be considered as an inquiry or proceedings, I 
would still consider that the circumstances of Ws claim were exceptional enough for Amtrust 
to have granted freedom of choice in any event. There was a very tight timeframe involved 
for submissions to be filed. Firm B already knew Ws business as well as the details of the 
dispute, and they were already in the process of preparing submissions. Firm B had also 
previously informed Amtrust that the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success, and 
Firm A said that it would take 20 working days to report on prospects alone, which would be 
before theyd even start preparing submissions.  So, on balance, Im satisfied that changing 
solicitors at such a stage would have likely been detrimental to Ws prospects given the 
urgency of the situation. 
Amtrust say that they could have paid their panel solicitors an increased rate in order to 
meet a fast approaching deadline. But having reviewed the correspondence between the 
insurer and W/Firm B, I cannot see that this was either offered or explained, despite the 
insureds protests that Firm A would not have enough time to conduct a legal assessment 
and prepare submissions. 
So, overall, Im satisfied that Amtrust ought to have allowed W the freedom to choose its 
own solicitor from the point the insurer provisionally accepted the claim. I will therefore be 
directing Amtrust to cover Ws reasonable legal costs in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, as well as paying 8% simple interest per year on any costs that W has had to pay 
to Firm B so far.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Amtrust Europe Limited to:
Pay Ws reasonable legal costs incurred under its claim in line with the policy terms 
and conditions; and
Pay 8% simple interest per year on any payments W has made to Firm B so far, from 
the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman