DRN-4020700
The complaint
Mr S says AXA Insurance UK Plc and its agent provided poor service and incomplete 
information to him after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ss car was damaged beyond economic repair in an accident. He told AXAs agent he 
wanted to keep it, but in error that information wasnt passed on as it should have been. In 
May 2022 an advisor called Mr S and offered him £3,705 for the car. He thought the offer 
was low, given adverts hed seen for similar cars to his. But the advisor then said a 
deduction of £580 had been made for his cars high mileage, and Mr S accepted the offer. 
AXA later paid Mr S £100 for the inconvenience caused by its agents error. But it noted that 
although hed retained the car  having also been paid its market value  the agent hadnt 
deducted a salvage charge of £926 from the settlement sum. Despite requests from it, Mr S 
didnt pay back the money he owed to AXA. He said he wouldnt have accepted the 
settlement had he known AXA would want to deduct a salvage sum from it. Eventually AXA 
put a stolen marker on the car, which caused Mr S great distress. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint. He thought AXA had acted reasonably 
in paying Mr S £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by its agents error. He 
also thought the cars salvage value was owed to AXA, so in his opinion it was reasonable 
for it to pursue reimbursement from Mr S and later add the stolen marker. 
As Mr S didnt accept the investigators view, his complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no doubt that Mr S should have been told about all the relevant deductions when he 
was contacted about the settlement sum. AXA has accepted that it was a significant error 
not to tell him thered be a salvage deduction. AXA noted that the error had led to 
inconvenience for Mr S, as otherwise the salvage deduction would have been included in the 
settlement. But I think the £100 compensation AXA paid Mr S is sufficient to make up for the 
trouble and upset caused by its agents mistake. 
The advisor made it clear in the settlement call that a deduction was made from the 
settlement sum on offer to reflect the cars high mileage. Mr S seems to have been confused 
about this issue at some point, as he told us he thought that deduction was for the cars 
scrap value. But there was no confusion during the call. The advisor hadnt been told Mr S 
was keeping the car, so she didnt know that another deduction would have to be made  
and Mr S didnt mention that hed be retaining the car at the time. 
Mr S says he wouldnt have accepted the settlement offer had he known about the salvage 
deduction that would be required later on. During the call, he mentioned having seen a car 
advertised at around £4,100, so it seems he thought his car was worth around that sum. But 
I think Mr S recognised that AXAs offer of £3,705 was reasonable, given that it included a 
deduction for high mileage, and he was happy enough to accept it. So I think the issue is 
that he believes hes entitled to keep the market value payment for the car, plus the car 
itself, without paying anything to AXA. Unfortunately, thats not the case. 
Its standard industry practice for insurers to make a deduction for salvage from a cars 
market value if a consumer keeps a written-off car, as the car belongs to the insurer once it 
has paid for it. I think the deduction proposed by AXA was reasonable, taking into account 
the cars pre-accident market value. Keeping the car, plus AXAs market value payment for 
it and not paying AXA the salvage sum thats due - put Mr S in a better position than he 
should have been in. I dont think that was a reasonable outcome, so in my view AXA did 
nothing wrong in pursuing the sum owed to it by Mr S. 
I know Mr S was upset to be told there was a stolen marker on his car. But I think AXA was 
entitled to take that action. Its clear from the file that it gave Mr S a reasonable amount of 
time to pay the salvage sum. It also warned him about the marker, but Mr S decided not to 
pay. In those circumstances, I think AXA acted reasonably. 
I know Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, but for the reasons set out above, I cant 
uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman