DRN-3275525
The complaint
Ms P, through a representative, says she was wrongly accepted by 1Plus1Loans Limited to 
guarantee a loan that should never have been given to the borrower. 
What happened
Ms P was accepted as a guarantor for a loan taken out by the borrower in January 2020. 
The loan was for £1,250 over 36 months. The monthly repayments were £59.94 and the total 
repayable was £2,157.84. The loan was for car repairs.
Ms P says she was forced to be the guarantor for a loan that the borrower could not afford. 
She was unable to refuse as she was in an abusive, coercive relationship. Better checks 
would have shown the lender that neither she (if called upon) nor the borrower could afford 
the loan repayments. She asks to be removed as guarantor, for the payments she has made 
to be refunded and for the loan to be removed from her credit record.
The investigator said the complaint should largely be upheld. He found there was evidence 
in the lenders checks that the borrower was having problems managing his money and so it 
should not have lent to him. It follows that Ms P should never have been accepted as a 
guarantor. He said, however, that there were no signs she was under pressure and being 
forced to be guarantor during the security call so he couldnt find that the lender should have 
been aware of that.   
1Plus1 Loans disagreed. In summary, it said the borrowers money problems were 
temporary due to unexpected costs and its checks showed both parties could afford to make 
the loan repayments. In fact, it had overstated their expenses by assuming they both paid 
household bills in full, when they split them. The fact Ms P was already guarantor for two 
loans for the borrower was factored into its affordability assessments. And the borrowers 
existing guarantor loans were short-term, small balance loans. He was not heavily indebted. 
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending, as well as the key
rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice, is set out on our
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ps complaint. 1Plus1 Loans 
made a number of more generic comments about our approach in response to the 
investigators assessments. I have considered all its points carefully but will comment here 
only on those I find to be material to the outcome of this complaint.
I have considered the following questions in my assessment:
Was the loan responsibly lent to the borrower?
Did 1Plus1 Loans obtain Ms Ps properly informed consent to become guarantor for 
the loan?
Did 1Plus1 Loans take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that Ms P would be able to 
meet the repayment of the loan over the term, if she needed to?
Was the loan responsibly lent to the borrower?
I can see that 1Plus1 Loans asked for some information from the borrower before it 
approved the loan. It asked about his income, monthly expenditure and existing credit 
commitments. It checked his bank statements to verify what he had declared. Based on this 
information 1Plus1 Loans calculated that the borrower had £239 disposable income each 
month and so the loan was affordable.
However, I dont think this was a fair lending decision based on what it had learnt during its 
checks. It knew that Ms P was already making the borrowers repayments on three loans but 
noted this was on a temporary basis. However, I cant see it investigated this fully to 
understand why the borrower was in this position - beyond accepting it was due to 
unexpected costs. And its notes show that Ms P had said something different. In these 
circumstances I find it was irresponsible to further extend the borrowers indebtedness. As 
the lender has said, I agree that the borrower didnt appear to have high levels of debt  yet 
he had still been unable to make his loan repayments. Not taking this into account discards 
an indicator that the borrowers finances may already be under duress.
I find 1Plus1 Loans assessment focuses heavily on the pounds and pence affordability, and 
not on the sustainability of the repayments. To meet its obligations under CONC 5.2A.12(R) 
it needed to check that the borrower would not need to borrow to repay or suffer other 
adverse financial consequences. It knew some of his debt was already being repaid by
Ms P, and its credit check showed that he was £1,859 overdrawn on one of his current 
accounts. It also knew from the borrowers bank statements that he had taken out a payday 
loan in November 2019 and had a line of high-cost revolving credit that hadnt shown on the 
credit check. I cant see it checked the balance of that debt. This loan was not for debt 
consolidation, so even if the borrower made the repayments I think it was more than likely he 
would be borrowing (via his overdraft) to do so. 
So in the round I think 1Plus 1 Loans was wrong to lend to the borrower. And as this is my 
conclusion I need not consider whether the checks it carried out on Ms P were reasonable 
and proportionate, nor whether it made a fair decision to accept her as guarantor based on 
its findings. It follows as Ive found the loan should not have been given that she should 
never have been guarantor.
I will however comment on Ms Ps testimony that she was in an abusive and coercive 
relationship and was forced to act as guarantor by the borrower. 
Ive listened to the call recording of the conversation between 1Plus1 Loans and Ms P that 
was part of the loan application process. Ms P confirmed that she was able to speak 
privately, was not being pressured to be the guarantor and understood the terms of the loan. 
The lender explained the role and responsibilities of being a guarantor and made clear that 
she was equally responsible for the debt. Ms P confirmed she was able to afford the loan 
and understood the implications of acting as guarantor.
Ive also seen the Guarantee and Indemnity agreement signed by Ms P. This set out her
rights and obligations. So overall I havent found any evidence that ought to have suggested 
to 1Plus1Loans that Ms P wasnt consenting to guarantee the loan. And I find she was told 
about the consequences of being a guarantor.I have carefully considered what Ms P has said about being pressured to be the guarantor
and her vulnerability at the time. I am sorry to hear about the position Ms P was in and I
appreciate how difficult this would have been for her. But I think it is important for me to
explain in order to reach a fair and reasonable decision I have to consider what information
1Plus1 Loans had about this at the time and based on that information, if it ought to have 
known Ms P was vulnerable.
Having listened to the call between Ms P and 1Plus1 Loans, I cannot fairly say that the 
lender should have concluded Ms P wasnt a willing guarantor. She appears engaged in the 
call and there is no evidence of prompting by a third-party. So while I dont dispute Ms Ps 
version of events, this is how she presents on the calls. Overall, Ive found no evidence to 
allow me to fairly conclude that 1Plus1 Loans should have been aware Ms P was under 
pressure to act as guarantor. 
However, once Ms P contacted 1Plus1 Loans in August 2020 and put it on notice of her 
personal circumstances I think it failed to respond appropriately. On the call it focused on 
what she needed to do for it to understand her financial circumstances and did not consider 
the vulnerability she had disclosed. I think here it failed in its duty of care. I note it continued 
to take payments from Ms P as the borrower was not meeting his contractual commitment. 
Funding the repayments has caused Ms P significant stress and anxiety  and she had told 
the lender in August 2000 she was now a single parent on maternity leave, and that although 
she had separated from the borrower he was still controlling her. 
Given 1Plus1 Loans were aware of her personal circumstances since August 2020, I find it 
should have provided more adequate support from that time onwards. I know Ms P would 
have been able to provide comprehensive evidence of her difficult personal circumstances 
had it required this. For this failure I am instructing the lender to pay Ms P £200 
compensation. In making this award I have considered the ongoing anxiety Ms P 
experienced each month she needed to make the payment. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Ms P 1Plus 1 Loans must:
Release Ms P from any obligations she has under the guarantee and indemnity
agreement, and then terminate it;
Refund any repayments Ms P has made towards the loan, with 8% simple interest
from the date of payment to the date of settlement; *
Pay Ms P £200 for the distress caused; and
Remove any information recorded on Ms Ps credit file in relation to this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 Loans to deduct tax from this interest. The lender should 
give Ms P a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Ms Ps complaint. 1Plus1 Loans Limited must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Rebecca ConnelleyOmbudsman