DRN-3895499
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK plc mishandled a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to AXA, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include claims-
handlers and others insofar as I hold AXA responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car, first registered in 2020. For the 
year from April 2021, Mr S had the car insured on a comprehensive policy branded with the 
name of an insurance intermediary. AXA was the insurance company responsible for dealing 
with any claim under the policy.
Unfortunately, in mid-February 2022, wind blew a tile off a roof and damaged the windscreen 
and bonnet of the car. Mr S made a claim to AXA.
He later complained to AXA that it was treating the claim as a fault claim against him.
By a final response dated mid-April 2022, AXA turned down the complaint. Mr S brought his 
complaint to us in June 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that a 
fault claim meant that AXA hadnt been able to recover its costs.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the recording of the call Mr S made to AXAs complaints team after he 
received AXAs letter dated 22 February 2022 and just before he before he went to collect 
the repaired car and pay the excess of £400.00.
Having reviewed the file, I havent found it proportionate to telephone Mr S or AXA.
Where a motor insurer has made an outlay in response to a policyholders claim, its 
common practice for that insurer to treat the claim as a fault claim against its policyholder 
unless and until that insurer has recovered its outlay in full, typically from a third partys 
insurer. So a fault claim doesnt mean that the policyholder has done anything wrong.
I cant say that this practice is unfair or unreasonable to Mr S.
Any claim  and particularly a fault claim  is likely to add to future premiums.
Mr S reported that a ridge tile had blown off the roof of his house and damaged the car. He 
told AXA that he had home insurance through the same intermediary but with a different  
insurer.
I dont consider that Mr S or AXA had a realistic prospect of success in claiming on the home 
insurance for the cost of repair of the car. I dont consider that AXA treated Mr S unfairly by 
declining to seek to recover its outlay in such a way.
So, notwithstanding that Mr S is likely to have suffered an increased premium from April 
2022, I dont consider that AXA treated him unfairly by treating the claim as a fault claim. 
And I dont consider it fair and reasonable to direct AXA to change the way it recorded the 
claim or to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct AXA Insurance UK plc to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman