DRN-3939105
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P complain about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with a claim under their 
home insurance policy for damage to their property caused by bad weather. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
In November 2021, around the time of Storm Arwen, bad weather caused damage to Mrs P 
and Mr Ps property, including a chimney stack, fascia boards, soffits and guttering to the 
roof. A further area of fascia and soffit had come loose and caused some roof tiles above to 
become loose. They contacted QIC to tell them about the damage and lodge a claim. 
QIC arranged for a field surveyor (P) to visit the property and assess the damage, although 
this didnt happen until early in the new year. Ps report stated the cause of the damage was 
the high winds from Storm Arwen but went on to conclude the bad weather had highlighted 
pre-existing issues with the property in the areas of damage. The surveyors report also 
concluded the pointing of the brickwork of the chimney was in poor condition, showing signs 
of age-related wear and tear (including missing pointing in places and weathering). It also 
noted the wooden boards under the uPVC fascia boards showed signs of being rotten. Ps 
overall conclusion was the damage wasnt the result of a one-off storm event, rather the 
storm had merely highlighted pre-existing issues. 
Based on the field surveyors report, QIC declined the claim, citing a policy exclusion for 
gradual deterioration and wear and tear.
Unhappy at the decline of their claim Mrs P and Mr P raised a complaint with QIC. In their 
final response, QIC said the wind speed around the date of the incident met the policy 
definition of a storm. QIC also referred to Ps report, in particular their findings about the poor 
condition of the brickwork of the chimney and the fascia boards showing signs of rotting. 
which they considered indicated the cause of the damage was pre-existing age-related wear 
and tear. QICs in-house surveyor agreed with Ps conclusions. QIC referred to an exclusion 
under the policy for gradual deterioration and wear and tear. So, QIC confirmed their 
decision to decline the claim. 
However, QIC said the accidental damage section of the policy would cover the damage to 
the guttering. They offered a cash settlement of £898.94 (less the policy excess of £250). In 
addition, QIC said they would reimburse up to £179.79 for any applicable VAT (subject to a 
VAT receipt from a contractor. On the issue of Mrs P and Mr Ps unhappiness with the 
brevity of Ps visit and lack of knowledge of their propertys location, QIC said the 
photographs taken by P were sufficient for them to assess the claim comprehensively, so 
they didnt uphold this aspect of the complaint.
Mrs P and Mr P then complained to this service. They disagreed with QIC about the decline 
of the claim due to pre-existing age-related wear and tear. They said their property was well-
maintained and (on the issue of rotting fascia boards) they said prior to the storm there was 
no evidence of rotting (or leaks). They thought damage to the chimney stack was the result 
of the wind catching a TV ariel and its subsequent movement.  And the damage wouldnt 
have occurred had there not been storm conditions. They said theyd suffered stress and 
anxiety from the claim decline and having to pay for the damage to be repaired. They 
wanted QIC to accept their claim and appoint a contractor to repair the damage (as they 
were finding it difficult to engage a reputable contractor).
After making their complaint, Mrs P and Mr P engaged a firm (S) that carries out condition 
surveys of buildings. In their report, S considered the issue of the wooden boards behind the 
fascia boards and soffits. The report stated that to have assessed the condition of the 
wooden boards would have required dismantling of the eaves (and removal of the fascia 
boards and soffits). Which would have risked the integrity and waterproofing of the roof 
system, particularly if the fascia boards and soffits were in good condition. In Ss opinion, it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect a homeowner to dismantle the eaves (with the associated 
risks) simply to check the condition of hidden elements (the wooden boards).
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding QIC hadnt fairly declined the claim.  She 
concluded there were storm conditions at the time of the incident and the damage was 
typical of storm damage. She also thought the report provided by S persuasive, as they (Mrs 
P and Mr P) wouldnt have been aware of the issue with the fascia board without removing 
the fascia and the soffit. So, Mrs P and Mr P wouldnt have been aware of any gradual 
deterioration of the wooden boards. Based on this, our investigator thought QIC should 
accept the claim, and couldnt rely on the policy exclusion for gradual deterioration and wear 
and tear. The investigator also thought QIC should reimburse Mrs P and Mr P for the cost of 
Ss report.
QIC disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. They said their stance remained unchanged. It was Mrs P and Mr Ps 
responsibility to have the roof regularly maintained and had this been the case, it would have 
been evident the board under the fascia had been deteriorating for some time.
In my findings, on the damage to the chimney stack, I concluded QIC acted fairly in declining 
Mrs P and Mr Ps claim. But on the damage to the fascia boards and soffits (and by 
extension, the slipped tiles above the damaged fascia boards and soffits) I concluded QIC 
hadnt acted fairly in declining that element of the claim.
Having reached these conclusions, I thought about what QIC should do to put things right. 
As I concluded they didnt act fairly in declining the claim for damage to the fascia boards, 
soffits (and the tiles above), then they should assess the element of claim relating to these 
areas of damage in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. I also 
thought QIC should reimburse Mrs P and Mr P for the cost of the report they commissioned 
from S (on production of an invoice or other evidence of payment).
I also considered what Mrs P and Mr P said about the impact the incident and QICs 
assessment of the claim had on them, including the stress and anxiety of the claim having 
been declined. Considering all the circumstances of the case, I thought QIC should pay £150 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Because I reached different conclusions to those of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out 
below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Mrs P and Mr P.The main element of Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint is that QIC unfairly declined their claim, on 
the grounds that while there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, they werent 
the main cause of the damage. Rather, it was due to pre-existing age-related issues with the 
chimney and the fascia boards that led to the damage. 
In considering this issue, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-existing 
issue, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response QIC said they were satisfied there were storm 
conditions around Mrs P and Mr Ps property at the time of the incident, noting a wind speed 
of 55 mph (the day after the incident). For the date of the incident the weather report 
provided by QIC to this service records a wind speed of 50 mph and describes the 
conditions as wind storm locally). Reports from the weather firm this service uses show (for 
the weather station nearest to Mrs P and Mr Ps property) on the date of the incident a peak 
gust of 61 mph (and the conditions described as a dry storm).  Based on this, Ive 
concluded there were storm conditions on the date of the incident. 
On the second question, Ive considered the description of the damage provided by Mrs P 
and Mr P (and in Ps report). Damage to fascia boards (and soffits), chimney stack and roof 
tiles is damage wed expect to see in storm conditions, particularly those with high winds.  
The third question is therefore key, given QIC declined the claim on the grounds the cause 
of the damage was gradual deterioration and wear and tear. Ive considered this issue 
carefully, including the points made by Mrs P and Mr P (and the views of their expert) 
together with the report from P and the opinion of QICs in-house surveyor. Ive also looked 
at the photographs of the property, including the damaged chimney stack (to which the TV 
ariel was attached), the damaged fascia boards and soffits, the adjacent tiles and other 
areas. Taking all these things into account, Ive reached different conclusions about the 
individual areas of damage within the claim. 
On the damage to the chimney stack, Ive concluded QIC have acted fairly in declining Mrs P 
and Mr Ps claim. But on the damage to the fascia boards and soffits (and by extension, the 
slipped tiles above the damaged fascia boards and soffits) Ive concluded QIC havent acted 
fairly in declining that element of claim. Ill set out why Ive come to different conclusions.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as QIC 
have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I think QIC have done so in the specific circumstances of this 
case, regarding damage to the chimney stack. But not in respect of damage to the fascia 
boards and soffits. Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, QIC refer to the following policy exclusion, firstly in the General 
Exclusions section where theres the following exclusion:12. Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
wear and tear;
gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not)
QIC also refer to a similar exclusion in the Storm section of the policy, where it states: [We 
dont cover] d. anything that happens gradually.
Ive also considered the report from P, which concludes:
the damage sustained to the property is not a result of a one-off event of storm 
damage and the recent bad weather has merely highlighted pre-existing age-related 
wear and tear and weathering issues with the property.
Concerning the damage to the chimney, the report states:
the brickwork was in poor condition showing signs of area related wear and tear 
and weathering.
QICs in-house surveyor reviewed the report and agreed with the conclusions, saying:
In addition, the pointing to the chimney is in a poor condition.
Mrs P and Mr P say the damage to the chimney stack was the result of the wind catching a 
TV ariel and its subsequent movement.
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the supporting evidence and photographs. 
Based on this, Im more persuaded by QICs view. The photographs of the chimney stack do 
show bricks dislodged where the TV ariel was attached. But they also show areas of missing 
pointing (in several areas of the stack). So, Im persuaded there were pre-existing issues 
that are likely to have led to the dislodging of the TV ariel. Im not persuaded that a stack in 
good condition would have suffered the damage it did in the high winds.
Turning to the damage to the fascia boards, Ps report states:
the wooden boards under the uPVC fascia boards show signs of being rotten.
QICs in-house surveyor reviewed the report and agreed with the conclusions, saying:
the wooden board the fasci was attached to has deteriorated. As such the fascia 
was not fixed properly onto the board and this was highlighted by the wind.
Ive also considered the points raised by Mrs P and Mr P, including the report they 
commissioned from S. On balance Im persuaded by their view, and that of S. The 
photographs of the property show the remaining (undamaged) areas of fascia boards and 
soffits to be in a good condition. And the wooden boards beneath them wouldnt have been 
visible, so Mrs P and Mr P wouldnt have had any indication of an issue with the wooden 
boards (and consequently need to take maintenance action). I agree with Ss view that it 
wouldnt be reasonable to dismantle the eaves (remove the fascia boards and soffits) to 
check the condition of the boards beneath, given there wasnt any obvious signs of 
deterioration. 
Based on these conclusions, I think QIC have acted unfairly to decline the element of the 
claim for damage to the fascia boards, soffits (and the tiles above) by applying the exclusion 
for gradual deterioration and wear and tear.Having reached these conclusions, Ive thought about what QIC should do to put things right. 
As Ive concluded they didnt act fairly in declining the claim for damage to the fascia boards, 
soffits (and the tiles above), then they should assess the element of claim relating to these 
areas of damage in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (that 
is, they cannot apply the exclusion for gradual deterioration and wear and tear). I also think 
QIC should reimburse Mrs P and Mr P for the cost of the report they commissioned from S 
(on production of an invoice or other evidence of payment).
Ive also considered what Mrs P and Mr P have said about the impact the incident and QICs 
assessment of the claim have had on them, including the stress and anxiety of their claim 
having been declined. Considering all the circumstances of the case, I think QIC should pay 
£150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mrs P and Mr Ps 
complaint in part. I intend to require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Assess the element of claim relating to the damaged fascia boards and soffits (and 
the tiles above) in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Reimburse Mrs P and Mr P for the cost of the report they commissioned from S (on 
production of an invoice or other evidence of payment).
Pay Mrs P and Mr P £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs P and Mr P accepted the findings and conclusions in the provisional decision. They also 
provided a copy of the invoice for the report they commissioned from S (£200 plus VAT).
QIC didnt respond by the date requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC have acted fairly towards Mrs P and Mr P.
As Mrs P and Mr P have accepted the findings and conclusions in my provisional decision 
(and QIC havent responded) then my final decision is the same as my provisional decision 
(with the addition of the cost of Ss report being provided by Mrs P and Mr P).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mrs P and Mr Ps complaint in 
part. I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Assess the element of claim relating to the damaged fascia boards and soffits (and 
the tiles above) in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Reimburse Mrs P and Mr P for the cost of the report they commissioned from S 
(£200 plus VAT, from the invoice provided from Mrs P and Mr P).
Pay Mrs P and Mr P £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them 
Mrs P and Mr P accept my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman