DRN-2310872
The complaint
Miss B and Ms G complained that AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA) have unfairly declined a 
claim for repairs to a collapsed ceiling under their commercial and residential landlords 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms G informed our service that a section of the ceiling in her lounge had collapsed suddenly 
which prompted her to make a claim on her commercial property insurance. 
Ms G told us that AXA took around six weeks to process her claim. She said she was unable 
to use her lounge and dining room for most of this time as her furniture had to be stored. She 
said as the claim was taking so long, she had the repairs to her home completed. This cost 
£3,800 as there was specialist work required to her original cornice.
She said AXA declined their claim because they said the damage was due to wear and tear 
and it should be expected of a Victorian property of its age. 
Ms G was not happy that the claim was rejected, so she raised a complaint with AXA. She 
says that AXA havent been helpful in resolving her complaint, so she escalated it to our 
service. She said if these were the circumstances, she would not have managed to get a 
mortgage on her property and wouldnt have been able to get insurance.
AXA responded to Miss B and Ms Gs complaint. It shared its timeline of events with them 
and accepted they could have registered their complaint sooner. For this AXA offered £50 
for the minor delays. AXA also stood by its decision to reject the claim for the reasons it 
had already given to them.
The case was then referred to our service. Our investigator looked at the evidence he was 
presented, and his view was not to uphold the complaint as he didnt think AXA had done 
anything wrong. Miss B and Ms G disagreed with this, so the case has been passed to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurer doesnt pay a claim, my role is to see if I think its fairly declined the claim. 
AXA said they declined the claim on the basis of there being no evidence of an insurable 
event. They said, there was no evidence of water or a leak occurring and the damage to 
the ceiling was due to age and gradual deterioration. I have checked the policy terms and 
can see that age and gradual deterioration is not an insured event, so I think AXA have been 
fair in declining the claim on this basis. However, I need to examine if AXA has been 
reasonable in concluding that the damage was due to age and gradual deterioration and not 
due to an insured event cover by the policy.
AXA appointed a building surveyor to assess the damage, which is normal practice for these 
kinds of claim and AXA have relied on the information provided to make their decision. The 
surveyors technical report has been shared, along with photos and the invoice for the repair 
works that were undertaken. Having reviewed all the evidence on file, I have not seen 
anything that leads me to a different conclusion to the surveyor or to make me question any 
of his findings. Ill explain why.
The surveyors technical report shows that it was possible to view the damage to the ceiling. 
It shows that the collapse of the ceiling was not caused by leaking water or a previous water 
leak. The surveyor reported that in the area on the ceiling that was damaged the exposed 
lathes were dry. The report also commented 
The ceiling which has come down is of a lathe and plaster nature, these types of ceiling 
have a limited life span and over the years the bonding of the ceiling deteriorates 
causing it to weaken and compromises the structural integrity of the ceiling. The result of 
which means that the ceiling or part of the ceiling collapse with no apparent cause.
I agree with the surveyor, there does not appear to be any evidence of water or a leak that 
may have triggered an insured event. It is much more likely the age of the plaster meant it 
had dried out and weakened its structure, causing the ceiling to collapse. 
I did look at the photos on file and noticed some staining around the cornice, so I wanted to 
understand this further as this looked different in appearance to the damaged ceiling. The 
surveyors report also described this:
Damp issues are evident to the windows at low level, it would appear a potential damp 
issue is causing this issue at low level and is causing the moisture detected in the small 
patch in the ceiling. It is noted that in previous years the front of the property was 
rendered and re-sealed externally due to a damp problem occurring in the lounge. 3 
months after this the paint had begun to peel around the windows.
This seems to be an isolated issue away from the collapsed area of ceiling. The evidence 
doesnt lead me to think in any way that this contributed or caused the ceiling to collapse.
Ms G comments also confirm the area around the collapsed ceiling was dry, she told our 
investigator When the contractors made the repair - the ceiling was completely dry, and I 
attended their inspection upstairs in my flatmates bedroom above the collapse - where they 
lifted the boards and showed me the area was completely dry.
Having looked at the available evidence, I find it difficult to come to a different conclusion to 
what the surveyor did. His description of what he has seen is consistent with what I can see 
on the photos provided. There is a damp issue by the windows, but the area where the 
ceiling collapsed was dry according to the surveyor, Ms G and her own contractor. 
Therefore, whilst the ceiling collapse itself was sudden, the cause of the collapse was the 
ageing of the plaster on the ceiling. If the ceiling had been better maintained over the years, 
it is very unlikely the ceiling would have collapsed. This kind of deterioration of a property is 
normal and wouldnt impact on a mortgage or insurance application as Ms G had 
commented in her complaint.
In conclusion, I dont uphold this complaint. I think AXA have acted fairly in relying on the 
report of the technical expert in coming to their decision. I also think they have been 
reasonable in their compensation for the minor delays, these may have had a small impact 
on Miss B and Ms G, but they have not impacted on the repairs to their property. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
I dont require AXA Insurance UK plc to do anything more, they just need to honour their 
offer of £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Ms G 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Peter Averill
Ombudsman