DRN-2707956
The complaint
Mr M complains that UK Credit Limited (UKC) lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr M was given a loan by UKC in January 2019. He borrowed £10,000 and agreed to repay 
the loan in 60 monthly instalments.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the results 
of UKCs checks should have led the lender to conclude that Mr M was facing problems 
managing his money, and that he would be unlikely to be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. So the investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld, and he 
asked UKC to pay Mr M some compensation.
UKC didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr M accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ms complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time UKC gave this loan to Mr M required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so UKC had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. In practice this 
meant that UKC had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr M undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for UKC to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether UKC did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr M.
UKC gathered some information from Mr M before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess how much 
he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past.
Mr M was entering into a significant commitment with UKC. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of five years. So I think it was right that UKC wanted to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ms financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above were sufficient to 
achieve that aim  I think that UKCs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And 
that is what I think should have happened in this case.  
The credit check results showed that Mr M was making extensive use of other credit. When 
he applied for the loan Mr M told UKC that he intended to use the loan to consolidate some 
other debt  repaying a large credit card balance, and another loan that hed taken out just a 
couple of months before. I think it was reasonable for UKC to rely on what Mr M said here 
and discount those debts when it was assessing the affordability of the loan.
But even after discounting those two debts, Mr M was left with a significant amount of credit 
that he needed to service each month before taking on the additional £330 that hed need to 
repay to UKC. From the credit check results I can see that Mr M was already committed to 
making other repayments of almost £1,200 each month on loans and hire purchase 
agreements. So when adding in the additional repayment to UKC he would be using over 
85% of his declared income just to repay loans.
But that wasnt the full extent of Mr Ms credit repayments. The credit check showed that he 
also had over £6,000 outstanding on revolving credit accounts such as overdrafts, store 
cards, and credit cards. So he would need to make monthly repayments on at least some of 
those accounts too.
So even without considering any normal living costs  and I note that Mr M said he was 
making a £200 monthly contribution to his board as he lived with family  Mr Ms outgoings 
would be very similar to the income he declared to UKC.So I think the results of UKCs checks clearly showed that it wouldnt be possible for Mr M to 
repay this new borrowing in a sustainable manner. I accept that by consolidating two of his 
debts Mr M might actually reduce his monthly outgoings. But that doesnt mean he could 
afford the repayments. Although the credit check showed that Mr M had kept up with all his 
repayments in the past, it appears to me that he had only done so by borrowing frequently 
and repeatedly from other lenders. That is not a sustainable way of managing his finances, 
and so UKC shouldnt have added to his debt burden.
So I dont think the loan should have been given to Mr M, and UKC needs to pay him some 
compensation.
Putting things right
I dont think UKC should have agreed to lend to Mr M in January 2019. So UKC should;
refund all the interest and charges Mr M paid on the loan 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires UKC to take off tax from this interest. UKC must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to put things 
right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman