DRN-4233027
The complaint
Miss V is unhappy that Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) dac (Allied World) 
intends to reduce the amount it will pay for a claim she made on her landlord insurance 
policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
detail here. But to briefly summarise, Miss V is a landlord of a property which she insures 
through Allied World.
In 2021, Miss Vs property suffered damage caused by subsidence, a peril covered under 
her policy, so Miss V made a claim to Allied World. Following investigations, Allied World 
said the property was underinsured. It valued the cost of rebuilding the property at around 
£199,000, but Miss V had insured it for only £150,000.
Allied World accepted the claim was covered under the terms of the policy. But because the 
property was underinsured, it said the claim would be settled proportionately. Allied World 
said the declared sums insured amounted to 75.5% of the accurate rebuild cost, so it would 
only pay 75.5% of the claim.
Allied World accepted there had been delays in assessing the claim and in reimbursing 
Miss Ls loss of rent. So, it offered her £50 compensation plus 8% interest on the loss of rent 
payment from the date she was out of pocket to the date she was reimbursed.
Miss V doesnt agree that Allied Worlds approach is fair. She says the average person 
would naturally assume that the sums insured or rebuild cost would be the market value. 
And the value she declared was £50k higher than the market value and was made in good 
faith. She also says she should have been told she was underinsured and that if she were 
over insured, Allied World wouldnt be looking to pay her money back.
 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She felt Allied Worlds approach of 
proportionately reducing the settlement was fair, but she disagreed with the method it used 
to calculate the reduction. She said Allied World ought to have followed the remedies set out 
in the Insurance Act 2015, instead of the term set out in the policy. She said the reduction 
ought to have been based on the difference between the premiums Miss V paid and what 
she ought to have paid had the sums insured been adequate. She said this amounted to 
82.58% of the claim value instead of the 75.5% which Allied World had offered. 
In terms of the delay in making the loss of rent payment, our investigator thought Allied 
Worlds offer was fair.
Allied World accepted our investigators findings, but Miss V didnt. So, as no agreement 
could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I was minded to reach a slightly different outcome to our investigator. So, I issued a 
provisional decision, to give the parties the opportunity to respond before I reached my final 
decision. Heres what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue I need to decide here is whether it is fair for Allied World to proportionately 
reduce the settlement of Miss Vs claim, in the way that it has.
Based on everything Ive seen, I agree that Allied World can fairly and reasonably 
reduce the settlement Miss V is due. However, I dont agree that the specific 
reduction it has sought to apply is fair or reasonable in the circumstances. Ill explain 
why, addressing each issue in turn.
Why it is fair to proportionately reduce the settlement
Miss V is a commercial customer. This means the relevant law which applies is the 
Insurance Act 2015 (the Act). This states that Miss V was required to make a fair 
presentation of the risk to Allied World. That meant disclosing any material 
information Miss V knew, or ought to have known. And particularly relevant to this 
complaint, it meant providing a reasonable estimate of the cost of rebuilding the 
property. 
Miss V disputes our investigators view that she breached the duty of fair 
presentation. She says the estimated figure she provided was made in good faith as 
she wasnt given any direction from Allied World as to how a more accurate estimate 
could be obtained. She says many average people would assume the rebuild cost to 
be the same as the market value. But she added £50k to the market value figure, 
reasonably assuming that would be sufficient.
Ive carefully considered Miss Vs arguments here. But having done so, I dont think it 
would be fair for me to conclude that she provided a reasonable estimate of the 
rebuild cost in good faith. I say this for several reasons: 
First, the fact that the rebuild cost differs from the market value of the property was 
highlighted multiple times during the sales journey. So, I dont agree that the 
average person would reasonably understand them to be the same. 
Second, I appreciate Allied World didnt direct Miss V as to how she could obtain a 
reasonable estimate of the rebuild value. But the Act requires Miss V to make a fair 
presentation of the risk to Allied World. It does not require Allied World to give 
directions as to how she can best do this. And as a commercial property insurance 
customer, I think it could be argued that the rebuild cost of the property in question is 
something which Miss V ought reasonably to have known.
In any event, Ive considered Miss Vs argument that she didnt know there were 
online resources she could have used to obtain an estimate and that it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect her to incur significant costs in obtaining a professional 
surveyors valuation. However, as explained, the Act required Miss V to disclose 
information she knew, or ought to have known. And the latter includes information 
which could have been obtained by a reasonable search. While Miss V may not have specifically known about the various online tools she 
could have used to obtain a reasonable estimate, I think she ought reasonably to 
have made enquiries knowing that the rebuild cost was not the same as market value 
and wasnt something she actually knew. And while I appreciate Miss V didnt use the 
market value and instead added £50k to the market value figure as her estimate, Ive 
seen no reasonable basis for the £50k she added to the market value in order to 
reach her final estimate. So, as the £150k estimate was essentially made without any 
reasonable basis, I dont consider that it was a reasonable estimate made in good 
faith.
Based on the above, Im satisfied that Miss V breached the duty of fair presentation 
when providing her estimate of the rebuild cost.
Why the proportionate reduction applied by Allied World is unfair
The Act sets out the remedies available to Allied World if Miss V breached the duty of 
fair presentation. For deliberate or reckless breaches, the Act entitles Allied World to 
void the policy and decline all claims. But here Allied World has accepted the claim, 
so it clearly doesnt think Miss V made a deliberate or reckless breach. 
For all other breaches, the remedy available to Allied World depends on what it 
would have done had a fair presentation been made. If Allied World would have 
offered the policy for a higher premium, the Act says it may reduce the claim 
settlement proportionately  based on the amount of premium paid compared to the 
higher premium it would have charged.
Our investigator said the proportion of premium Miss V paid was 82.58%. But this 
was based on an incorrect premium calculation. Allied World has since provided me 
with information from an underwriter stating the premium it would have charged at 
the time, based on a rebuild value of £199,000, would have been £244.34. The 
premium Miss V actually paid was £194.50. This amounts to 79.6% of the premium 
which ought to have been paid. 
Instead of following the remedy set out in the Act, Allied World sought to 
proportionately reduce the settlement based on the difference between Miss Vs 
estimate of the sums insured, and the reinstatement cost estimate it obtained using a 
reputable online tool  the Building Cost Information Service (BCIS) Residential 
Rebuild calculator. This approach was based on the following term within Miss Vs 
policy:
Underinsurance Penalty
Your policy depends on you having the correct sums insured. If at the time of 
loss or damage the total of your sums insured on buildings specified in your 
schedule is less than 85% of the reinstatement cost of the buildings covered 
by this Section 1, we shall bear only that proportion of the loss or damage 
which the total of your sums insured on buildings bear to the total 
reinstatement cost. For example, if your sum insured only covers one half of 
the total of the reinstatement cost of the buildings, we will only pay one half of 
the cost of repair or replacement and you would have to pay the remaining 
half of the reinstatement cost.While the approach Allied World sought to take is in line with Miss Vs policy terms, I 
dont consider that it delivers a fair or reasonable outcome in the circumstance of this 
claim and complaint. I say this because, what it means in practice is that Miss V has 
paid 79.6% of the premium due, yet Allied World is only seeking to cover 75.5% of 
the claim. That doesnt seem equitable or fair and it isnt in line with the Act. 
In order to fairly settle Miss Vs claim, I think Allied World should increase the 
settlement to 79.6% of the total repair costs, rather than 75.5%. Allied World should 
also pay 8% simple interest on any part of the settlement which remains unpaid, 
calculated from the date Allied World made the decision to settle the claim at 75.5% 
to the date the payment is made, to compensate Miss V for being deprived of the use 
of funds which she was entitled to under the Act.
In terms of the service issues, I agree that Miss V has suffered undue distress and 
inconvenience as a result of the delays in Allied World making the loss of rent 
payment. But I think its apology, alongside the £50 compensation offer and 8% 
interest on the loss of rent payment is sufficient to put things right. So, Im not 
awarding any further compensation here.
Ive also considered whether to award any additional compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience Miss V will have suffered as a result of the unfair approach to 
proportionate settlement which Allied World initially sought to take. But as Miss Vs 
concern was with Allied World seeking to apply any proportionate reduction at all, 
rather than with the amount, I dont think wed be in a fundamentally different position 
now, even if Allied World had calculated the reduction in line with the Act. So, in 
these circumstances, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct Allied World 
to pay compensation for any distress or inconvenience caused by the approach it 
sought to take initially.
I said I was intending to direct Allied World to increase the claim settlement to 79.6% of the 
cost of reinstatement, less the policy excess, and to pay 8% simple interest on any part of 
the settlement which remains unpaid, calculated from the date Allied World made the 
decision to settle the claim at 75.5% to the date the payment is made.
I also said I was intending to direct Allied World to pay Miss V £50 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused her and to reimburse the loss of rent payment plus 
8% simple interest from 28 September 2022 to 12 December 2022  in line with the offers it 
had already made  if it hadnt already done so.
I asked both sides to provide any further comments or evidence they wanted me to consider, 
before I reached my final decision. Allied World responded to confirm it accepted my 
provisional findings and had nothing further to add. 
Miss V provided a detailed response setting out why she felt my provisional decision was 
incorrect and unfair. To summarise, she said:
I am wrong to consider her policy as a commercial one. Its a residential landlords 
policy which is different to a commercial landlords policy.
I have unfairly accepted Allied Worlds figure for the rebuild cost as accurate.Our investigator suggested the proportionate reduction should be 82.58%, then Allied 
World provided new premium calculations which further reduced it. She feels this 
was a blatant attempt to move the proportionate reduction away from the 85% 
threshold in the policy where no deduction would be made. She says I should not 
have accepted this blatant fabrication.
I have misunderstood the Insurance Act 2015 and sought to apply it despite the 
terms of the policy being more favourable to her.
Her declared rebuild cost was £150k which sets the policy limit. Her claim value is 
roughly £110k and therefore it should be covered in full.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also thought carefully about any responses to my provisional decision. Having done so, 
my provisional conclusions remain unchanged. Ill explain why in more detail below, covering 
what I consider to be the key arguments put forward by Miss V in response to my provisional 
decision. 
For clarity, Ill address each of the points in turn.
Not a commercial policy
Miss V disputes that her policy is a commercial one. Instead, she says it is a residential 
landlords policy, which she says is different.
I think the confusion here is based on the terminology being used. I acknowledge that 
Allied World may offer a commercial landlord insurance policy and a residential landlord 
policy which are different in terms of cover. These likely depend on the type of property 
being insured by the landlord  a residential property like a flat or house, or a commercial 
property like a shop or factory.
To be clear, our service would consider both types of policy to be commercial ones. We 
consider any policy taken out to cover a commercial enterprise  such as letting a residential 
property for profit  as a commercial policy. So, Miss Vs policy is a residential landlords 
policy  which is a commercial policy.
To put it another way, Miss Vs policy does not meet the definition of a consumer insurance 
contract set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA):
An insurance contract between an insurer and an individual who enters into the 
contract wholly or mainly for purposes unrelated to the individual's trade, business or 
profession
Conversely, a non-consumer insurance contract is defined in Section 1 of the 
Insurance Act 2015 as:
Any contract of insurance which does not fall within the CIDRA definition of 
consumer insurance contract. An insurance contract may be non-consumer for two 
reasons: either the policyholder is not an individual, or they have entered into the 
contract wholly or in significant part for trade, business or professional reasons.Miss Vs residential landlord policy was taken out wholly, or in significant part, to cover her 
trade, business or profession as a landlord. It is therefore a non-consumer insurance 
contract  i.e. a commercial policy. I trust this clarifies why I have referred to it as being a 
commercial insurance policy  and why I have applied the Insurance Act 2015, rather than 
CIDRA, when considering Miss Vs complaint.
Accepted Allied Worlds rebuild cost 
Miss V says Ive unfairly accepted Allied Worlds calculation of the rebuild cost as being 
accurate.
I explained in my provisional decision that the duty of fair presentation required Miss V to 
give a reasonable estimate of the rebuild cost  not an accurate figure. In my view it is 
nearly impossible to derive an accurate rebuild cost as different online tools or qualified 
experts would likely all arrive at slightly different estimates for the same building, none of 
which would be correct or incorrect. However, crucially, all would have a reasonable basis.
In this case, Miss V didnt use an online calculator or obtain an expert opinion. Instead, she 
added £50k to the market value of her property. Ive seen no reasonable basis for her 
estimate, which is why I concluded that she had breached the duty. And my opinion here 
remains the same.
Allied Worlds calculation of the rebuild cost  £199k  came from an industry recognised 
tool used to estimate the rebuild cost of properties. Based on this, I consider it has a 
reasonable basis, and that it is the most reasonable estimate available. So, in the particular 
circumstances of this complaint, I consider it fair and reasonable to use Allied Worlds 
estimate when calculating the proportionate reduction in the claim settlement. 
Premium calculation discrepancy
Miss V has highlighted that the terms of the policy only entitle Allied World to proportionately 
reduce a settlement where the declared rebuild cost is less than 85% of the accurate 
rebuild cost. She says our investigator suggested that the proportionate refund would be 
around 82.5%  only 2.5% below this threshold and easily explainable by inflation and the 
cost of building materials. Miss V is unhappy that I have said the proportionate reduction 
should be 79.6%, based on new premium information provided by Allied World. 
The percentage referred to by our investigator was based on the premium for the wrong 
policy year. I didnt think this was fair, so I made Allied World obtain the premium from the 
correct policy year from its underwriting agent. Im persuaded, on the balance of 
probabilities, that the amended premium most likely reflects what would have been charged 
had Miss V declared the rebuild cost as £199k. I dont share Miss Vs views that Allied World 
has fabricated this.
Policy terms more favourable
Miss V has suggested that the policy terms are more favourable than the remedy set out in 
the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act). But I dont agree. 
I set out in my provisional decision that by applying the terms of the policy, Allied World 
would be required to cover 75.5% of the claim. But, by applying the remedy set out in the 
Act, it is required to cover 79.6% of the claim. This is clearly more favourable to Miss V, 
which is why Im of the view that Allied World needs to follow the remedy in the Act instead 
of the policy terms.Policy limit
Miss V states that the rebuild cost she declared is her policy limit and as the claim falls 
below that amount it should be covered in full.
While I acknowledge that interpretation, I dont agree that it is correct. Ill explain why.
Allied World accepted the risk of insuring Miss Vs policy, and charged a premium based on 
its assessment of that risk, based on a rebuild cost/policy limit of £150k. However, that 
amount is most likely insufficient to cover the cost of rebuilding Miss Vs property. This is 
called being underinsured, and it means Miss V has not paid the appropriate premium for the 
risk Allied World took on.
Miss Vs policy contains a specific term which entitles it to proportionally reduce the claim 
settlement in the event that Miss Vs declared rebuild cost is less than 85% of the accurate 
rebuild cost  which it was. However, as already explained at length, I consider that applying 
this term puts Miss V in a worse position than applying the relevant remedy available under 
the Act, for breach of the duty of fair presentation.
I think its fair and reasonable to apply the Act as the reason Miss V is underinsured is 
because she breached the duty of fair presentation by not providing a reasonable estimate 
of the rebuild cost when taking out her policy. And, as explained, the Act contains clear 
provisions for these circumstances, and remedies insurers can apply where, but for the 
breach, they would have charged a higher premium.
None of Miss Vs arguments have persuaded me that it would be unfair or unreasonable to 
allow Allied World to proportionately reduce the claim settlement, in line with the remedy 
available under the Act. So, based on everything Ive said above, my provisional conclusions 
remain unchanged.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Miss Vs 
complaint in part.
Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) dac must:
Increase the settlement offer to 79.6% of the cost of reinstatement, less the policy 
excess, and pay 8% simple interest on any part of the settlement which remains 
unpaid, calculated from the date Allied World made the decision to settle the claim at 
75.5% to the date the payment is made.
Pay Miss V £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her 
and reimburse the loss of rent payment plus 8% simple interest from 
28 September 2022 to 12 December 2022  in line with the offers it has already 
made  if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
*If Allied World Assurance Company (Europe) dac considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss V how much 
its taken off. It should also give Miss V a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman