DRN-4107664
The complaint
Mrs R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt carry out proper affordability 
checks before providing her with a high interest rate loan. She says it then didnt help her 
when she asked for the term to be reduced.
What happened
Mrs R was provided with a £4,000 fixed sum loan in September 2021. The loan was 
repayable over 60 months with monthly instalments of around £117. The total amount 
repayable was around £7,027. Mrs R says that proper checks werent carried out before the 
loan was provided. She says that she asked for the loan term to be reduced but NatWest 
were unhelpful. 
NatWest issued a final response letter in May 2022 to address Mrs Rs concerns about the 
affordability checks carried out. It said that Mrs R declared her monthly income as £1,500 
and this was verified against her account. It said it carried out a full credit search to assess 
any additional borrowing Mrs R had at the time and this didnt raise any concerns. Mrs Rs 
application passed its affordability checks and was approved without manual intervention. 
NatWest explained that the interest rate will have been determined based on a number of 
factors and was made clear to Mrs R before she agreed to the loan.
NatWest issued a second final response letter in September 2022. It noted Mrs Rs 
comments about the service she received when she made a partial payment. It paid her £50 
for any trouble and upset caused and gave further details about the impact of the payment 
and contact details to use if she wished to transfer the funds back or reduce her monthly 
payments. 
Mrs R wasnt satisfied with NatWests response and referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman service. 
Our investigator noted that Mrs R obtained two loans from NatWest and her complaint was 
about the second loan provided in September 2021. He didnt think that NatWest did 
anything wrong by providing the loan and thought the £50 offered in regard to the customer 
service issues was reasonable. Therefore, he didnt uphold this complaint. 
Mrs R didnt agree with our investigators view. She said she had a large credit card balance 
and another loan in place at the time of the loan. She said she was paying council tax as 
well as direct debits for costs such as insurance and utilities. She says the loan was 
provided too easily and she was provided too much credit in a short space of time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Mrs R has received two loans from NatWest. Her complaint relates to her second loan.
Before providing the loan, NatWest carried out a credit check and asked Mrs R about her 
income which was then checked against her statements. It also asked about Mrs Rs 
expenditure, and this was taken into account alongside credit reference agency information. 
While I find these checks reasonable, as NatWest had Mrs Rs bank statements available to 
it I think it would have been reasonable for it to consider the expenditure information in these 
as well as its other checks. Therefore, I have considered whether it was reasonable that 
NatWest provided this loan based on the information available to it at the time of lending that 
being information from the credit check, Mrs Rs previous lending history and her bank 
statements.
Having looked through the credit information available (including a recent copy of Mrs Rs 
credit report) I do not find that this raises concerns. Mrs R was maintaining her accounts well 
and there was no recent adverse information recorded. Mrs R has noted another loan 
provided by a third party and I can see that this was provided around the time of the 
NatWest loan, but I cant say that this would have shown on any credit check at the time the 
NatWest loan was provided. NatWest also provided Mrs R with a credit card around the 
same time. But this complaint is about the loan, and I do not find that her credit report or 
credit commitments at the time of the loan application raised any concerns. Mrs R had taken 
out a previous loan with NatWest and she had maintained her repayments on this and repaid 
the loan early. Overall, I do not find that NatWest should have been concerned or needed to 
carry out any additional checks based on Mrs Rs credit record.
Considering the affordability of the loan, Mrs Rs income was verified as being around 
£1,500 a month. NatWest recorded a monthly mortgage commitment of £420 and living 
costs of £589. Mrs Rs credit file suggests that her mortgage was settled in July 2021. I have 
looked through Mrs Rs bank statements and these show her regular monthly expenditure for 
costs such as utilities, council tax and insurance to average around £520. Including an 
additional amount for food and other living costs, I do not find this suggests the loan should 
have been considered unaffordable. I note Mrs Rs comment about gambling but based on 
the information available to NatWest at the time I have nothing to suggest it would have 
been aware of this. 
I understand that Mrs R wasnt happy that an interest charge was applied when she made a 
lump sum payment towards the loan but as this was in line with the terms and conditions, I 
cannot say NatWest did anything wrong by applying this. I also note this charge was 
refunded when Mrs R reversed her payment. 
Mrs R has said that NatWest wasnt helpful when she asked about reducing her loan term. I 
understand that Mrs R feels she wasnt provided with all the information and help she 
wanted, and I can understand how frustrating she found this. However, in this case, having 
considered the information provided in response to her complaint and the payment of £50 
compensation for the service received, I find this a reasonable resolution to this issue.
Mrs R has also said the interest rate was too high. I understand why she may feel this, but 
NatWest has explained the interest rate provided will be based on a number of factors and 
this is a commercial decision. As the interest rate was set out clearly in the agreement and 
Mrs R had this information available to her before agreeing to the loan, I find she had the 
information she needed to make an informed decision. Therefore I do not find I can say 
NatWest did anything wrong in regard to this issue.My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc isnt required to do anything further 
in settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman