DRN-3047563
The complaint
Ms P has complained to Quilter Financial Services Ltd (Quilter) about advice she says she 
received from Platinum Mortgage Solutions (Platinum) in 2016.
What happened
In early 2016 Ms Ps fixed rate mortgage term came to an end and she says that she sought 
advice from an adviser called Mr G from Platinum.  Ms Ps recollection is that she was told 
by Mr G that Halifax wouldnt place her mortgage onto a new fixed rate product.
Around 10 months later Ms P received advice from a different mortgage adviser who 
successfully placed her mortgage onto a new fixed rate deal and reduced her costs.  Ms P is 
unhappy because she had to pay increased monthly amounts to maintain the mortgage for 
the period from when she says Mr G gave her advice, until the new fixed rate was arranged.  
She claims that Mr G didnt advise her suitably and wants to be compensated for the extra 
money she paid during that 10 months.
Ms P made her complaint to Quilter as it is responsible for the business undertaken by 
Platinum as one of its appointed representatives.
Quilter responded but didnt uphold Ms Ps complaint.  In summary it said:
There was no evidence that Mr G gave advice to Ms P about a new fixed rate deal.
Even if Mr G did give advice it wasnt its fault if Halifax refused to place her on a new 
deal.
Ms P could have sought advice elsewhere whenever she wanted before the 10 
months had passed.
Our investigator reviewed things and noted there were emails which suggested Mr G of 
Platinum did provide Ms P with mortgage advice when her fixed term ended in 2016. The 
investigator recommended the complaint be upheld and said that Quilter should pay 
compensation to Ms P for the 10-month period when she was paying the higher interest rate.
Ms P broadly agreed with the investigator.  Quilter acknowledged receipt of the assessment 
but didnt accept it  but neither did it provide any material response.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has now been passed to me to review 
everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached much the same conclusion as the investigator, and for largely 
the same reasons.
As Quilter hasnt provided any further points for me to consider, in the course of my review 
Ive focussed upon three key points:
Whether Mr G of Platinum gave advice to Ms P about her mortgage when the 
existing fixed term ended in 2016.
If advice was given, whether it was it suitable for Ms P.
If unsuitable advice was given, what is a fair and reasonable way to put things right.
I agree with Quilter that Ms P clearly had an ongoing relationship with Mr G, and hed 
previously provided advice to her in the years prior to the events of 2016.  Its not entirely 
clear what advice may have been given at the end of her fixed term in 2016 as Ive not seen 
any suitability report.
Where the circumstances of a complaint are uncertain, Im required to decide what I think 
most likely to have happened based upon the balance of probabilities.  Have done so in this 
case, Im satisfied that Mr G was advising Ms P  and largely for two reasons.
Firstly, I think Ms P would have done something when her fixed rate term was due to come 
to an end as there was a prospect of having to pay higher payments to maintain the same 
mortgage balance.  As its clear Ms P had an ongoing relationship with Mr G, I consider it 
very likely that she would have sought advice and assistance from Platinum.
Secondly, amongst the evidence Ms P has provided, theres email correspondence between 
her and Mr G which refers to her mortgage and its cost.  
An email from Mr G to Ms P dated 23 February 2016 said:
We are almost there with your new mortgage product.
Halifax have asked me to confirm what your income was last year
And in a further email from Ms P to Mr G on 19 August 2016 she said:
As it stands, I am now stuck with a variable mortgage which is costing me an 
additional £480.00pcm
Its clear that Mr G was assisting Ms P with arranging her mortgage, and so I consider it 
reasonable to conclude that he would have given her advice in relation to that.  But without 
details of the advice its difficult to know whether it was suitable for Ms P.
Given that Ms Ps mortgage reverted to a variable rate which was costing her considerably 
more to maintain each month, I satisfied the advice given to her was unsuitable.  Whilst I 
cant be certain, I think its likely that Mr G could have sourced Ms P an alternative fixed rate 
mortgage from the market  and this is supported by the fact a different adviser did so a 
matter of months later.
I understand Quilter says Ms P could have sought advice from another adviser at any time  
and Ive considered this point.  Because of the ongoing relationship she had with Mr G, I 
dont think she would have had cause to question him and go elsewhere at the time.  Ms P 
has explained that the advice she received some 10 months later from another adviser was 
as a result of a chance meeting  rather than her proactively seeking advice.Putting things right
As Ive concluded Ms P was given unsuitable advice, Ive also thought about whats a fair 
and reasonable way for Quilter to put things right. Broadly speaking, that would be to 
compensate Ms P as though she had been suitably advised and assisted in obtaining a new 
fixed rate in February 2016.
This is not an exact science, as I understand that Halifax may not have been willing to put 
Ms P on a new fixed rate in February 2016, although its likely another mortgage provider 
would have done.  We do know that Ms P ultimately did get a new fixed rate deal in 
December 2016  albeit I accept the possibility that rates may have changed slightly 
between those two dates.  But for the purposes of calculating compensation on this 
complaint I think the December 2016 rate is close enough.
 
I think its fair and reasonable for Quilter to look at what Ms P actually paid from when her 
fixed rate expired in February 2016 until getting a new deal in December 2016.  It should 
then compare that figure to what Ms P would have paid had she started the new fixed rate 
deal in February 2016 at the end of her previous rate term  and pay her the difference.
Quilter should also pay 8% simple interest per annum on the difference from the date Ms P 
made each payment to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ps complaint against Quilter Financial Services Ltd and 
I direct it to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Ross Hammond
Ombudsman