DRN-3227747
The complaint
Mr A, on behalf of Mrs K, has complained about her motor insurer Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited (LV) in relation to repairs it carried out after the car was 
damaged in an accident. 
What happened
Mrs Ks car was damaged in September 2019 and LV arranged to repair it at one of its 
garages. Mr A, who is also a named driver on the insurance policy, wasnt happy with how 
long the repair took to progress or with the work completed.
LV offered £100 compensation for delays to that point and accepted further work was 
required. It said it would arrange for an independent engineer to assess the car. The 
engineer found the car was roadworthy and considered a list of 20 items of concerns raised 
by Mr A. Of note he didnt think an issue with the tyre was related to the accident, and nor 
did anything need aligning due to the crash and/or the repairs. He did identify some issues 
which needed resolving  but when he re-attended to assess the car further in 
January 2020, he noted all but two had been resolved. 
LV said the two outstanding repairs issues were some paint overspray which needed 
removing as well as repainting of the bonnet and front bumper spoiler. It also noted that it 
had agreed to pay for painting the replacement front bumper which Mr A had obtained. LV 
said that to do these three pieces of work it would cost it £614.11, plus VAT. It said it would 
pay Mrs K that sum (with VAT to be paid on receipt of a VAT invoice) rather than do the work 
itself. It said if Mrs K found it would be more expensive than that to do this work, it would 
consider her reasonable costs. It said that as Mr A had concerns about whether the car was 
safe to drive, because of the tyre, and whilst it believed the car was working fine and in a 
roadworthy condition, it said it would return the car to Mrs K on a truck. Which it duly did. LV 
did accept that it had failed Mrs K at times during the repairs, and it said it would waive the 
£400 excess as compensation. 
Mr A had arranged for the car to be inspected upon its return. For reasons related to the 
pandemic there was then a delay with the car being assessed at Mrs Ks chosen garage. It 
said it had found the car was a non-runner. The garages report from June 2020 said that it 
had found a rogue screw lodged in an inlet valve and this had caused damage to the engine. 
Mr A provided the garages report and invoices totalling over £4,000 to LV for consideration. 
He also provided an invoice from a tyre company, and another for alignment and paint work. 
Mr A said that during the time of all the repairs he and Mrs K had often been without a car 
and had needed to use taxis. He provided over a dozen receipts for journeys. 
When our investigator considered the matter LV offered to pay, in addition to the £614.11 
previously offered for paintwork, for 2 hours worth of labour for alignment work and for one 
taxi journey. Our investigator felt LVs approach to resolving Mrs Ks complaint, including its 
offer to waive the excess charge was fair and reasonable. So he didnt uphold the complaint 
or recommend that LV did anything more. 
Mr A said he disagreed with our investigators findings and provided substantial commentary 
in reply. His complaint was then passed to me for an ombudsmans review. I was minded to 
uphold it, but not in respect of every repair Mr A thinks LV is liable for and/or every aspect 
complained about. Ive quoted, and in respect of paintwork and compensation  
summarised, my provisional findings below.
In bringing this complaint Mr As raised a number of points. I've considered everything he's 
said and everything on file carefully. But in this decision I don't intend to address each and 
every point raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of 
Mr As complaint. 
I can see that Mr A raised some concerns about the repairs and how long they were taking 
during October and November 2019. LVs file shows that on 25 November 2019 it agreed to 
appoint an engineer to inspect the car. Shortly after this LV discussed what had happened 
during this stage of the repairs with Mr A and offered £100 compensation. I think that was 
reasonable. 
But I see that Mr A, into December 2019 was also unhappy about financial loss because the 
policy Mrs K had didnt offer a courtesy car for the period of repairs. LV wasnt minded to 
compensate Mrs K for any financial loss because her policy hadnt offered this type of cover. 
I think LV has slightly missed the point that some loss may have arisen due to its delays. But 
I also note that it was 25 November when LV agreed to assess the car and it wasnt minded 
to release it back to Mr A for use until after that inspection was completed. Thats 
understandable  but it meant that Mrs K and Mr A were without use of the car at that time 
due to LVs assessment process. And when the car was assessed it was found the repairs 
had not been completed properly. At that point  23 December 2019  a hire car was 
arranged straightaway for Mrs K. But Mrs K was without the use of her car in the period prior 
to that. So I think LV should compensate Mrs K by paying her £10 a day for the period 
25 November 2019 until 22 December 2019 inclusive (28 days). I note that LVs file says it 
felt the £100 compensation it paid to Mr A would have covered the loss of use, or perhaps 
the cost of a hire car for the weekend prior to the engineers inspection taking place (as 
initially Mr A had expected to get the car back on the Friday). But Im satisfied the £100 LV 
offered was for non-financial loss. Its not fair, in my view, to re-appropriate this after the 
fact. So Im not going to take the £100 compensation into account when awarding loss of 
use. Im going to require LV to pay Mrs K £280  being £10 a day for a period of 28 days.
Mr A presented some taxi receipts, three of which are dated during this period. I know LV 
has some concerns about these receipts. But I note they are all in respect of the same 
journey taken on different days (from Mrs Ks home to a place of worship). Im not persuaded 
there is anything that makes me think I should doubt the validity of these receipts. For 
example, whilst only one driver is used that may simply be because Mrs K has a preferred 
driver. And, once at this destination, Mrs K may well have had access to people who would 
offer her a lift home  so the receipts showing one-way travel only dont worry me either. 
I also think that Mrs K would likely need to do other things on the days she visited the place 
of worship too. So Im satisfied its fair, on top of the loss of use payment Im awarding, to 
require LV to reimburse Mrs K £75, being the total cost of the three journeys Im satisfied LV 
is liable for between 25 November 2019 and 22 December 2019. To this sum it will have to 
add interest on each £25 journey cost from the date each was taken until settlement is 
made. 
Mrs K had the benefit of the hire car from 23 December 2019 until her car was returned to 
her in February 2020. Mr A says his mechanic drove the car when it was returned and it 
stopped working. He later presented a report from a garage which said a screw was found in 
the inlet pipe, so Mr A feels LV is responsible for the work needed to repair the car. LV says 
the work it did wouldnt have involved access to the part of piping within the engine where the screw was found. I dont think I can be sure what happened to cause a screw to be found 
in the inlet piping of Mrs Ks cars engine. But I note that the work the engineer found to be 
needed in December 2019 didnt involve the engine. And during that assessment the car 
was driven and found to be running fine. I havent seen any report from the time the 
mechanic drove the car after it was returned to Mrs K, and the garages report is dated 
June 2020  four months after the car was returned. I appreciate the pandemic presented 
difficulties for getting the car assessed  but that, along with the car having been driven in 
December 2019, means I simply cant be sure, even on balance, that the screw was in the 
engine due to the work completed by LVs garage.
Before the car was returned to Mrs K in February 2020, LVs engineer confirmed all work it 
accepted LV was liable for had been done to a suitable standard, with the exception of some 
paintwork, including over-spraying. Im satisfied by the engineers reports and Im not 
persuaded that anything else remained to be done. Mr A believes there were more issues 
with the car than LV and its engineer has admitted  but Im satisfied the engineer was best 
qualified to determine what was wrong, what was needed, and that what was needed had 
been done. I dont find Mr As estimates from garages about what they feel is needed are 
persuasive proof that LV is liable for more than the paintwork.
However, when LV was reviewing this during our complaints process it offered to pay Mrs K 
for two hours labour for alignment work. It has since explained this was an error on its part, 
caused by its reviewer overlooking the details of the second report completed by its 
engineer. In short, the reviewer didnt realise that all alignment issues had been completed 
to the engineers satisfaction. LV said that despite its offer having been made mistakenly, it 
would stand by that offer. However, I am satisfied by the evidence presented that no 
alignment work is outstanding. Therefore, Im not going to make LV pay the proffered two 
hours labour to Mrs K. I think that to do so would be unfair because this would mean Mrs K 
was receiving a sum for repairs which Im satisfied LV wasnt liable for.
In respect of paintwork (including resolving over-spraying), I noted LV had paid £614.11 to 
Mrs K for repairing the paintwork issues. I explained in my provisional decision that I thought 
LV should pay more, and I set out my reasoning for why that was. I said LV should pay a 
total (including the amount it had already paid) of £1,201.11. With VAT also being paid by LV 
once work was done. Regarding compensation I said the £500 LV had paid already (by 
virtue of it waiving the £400 excess and paying £100), fairly and reasonably made up for the 
upset it had caused.
In responding to my provisional decision, LV objected to all the awards Id made and Mr A 
said he didnt think the issue about the screw in the engine had been adequately considered. 
Mr A also indicated he didnt think that the sum Id awarded for rectifying the paintwork 
issues was sufficient. He then obtained another estimate from the garage. The new estimate 
showed the total cost of all work to rectify the paintwork issues, including VAT, would be 
£408  £206 less than the £614 LV had already paid. In light of that evidence I had to amend 
my original findings so they took into account the now established likely cost to Mrs K for 
rectifying the paintwork issues and that, based on the new evidence, LV had overpaid Mrs K 
by £206. I issued some further findings to both parties, they key parts of which were:
Based on Mrs Ks new evidence, LV has made a fair and reasonable settlement to her for 
the work outstanding which it should have completed [because its paid her more than what 
that work will cost]. Therefore, I cant fairly or reasonably continue to require it to make 
further payments to Mrs K for that work.
I also bear in mind that Mrs K is currently in credit from LV of £206 (£614 minus £408). 
I havent yet considered LVs objections to my other suggested awards namely payment to Mrs K of £280 for her loss of use of her car and £75 plus interest for taxi journeys. But, in the 
event they dont change my mind that these sums are due to Mrs K and in light of the credit 
Ive found Mrs K is in, Ive thought about what LV reasonably owes Mrs K. 
Mrs K shouldnt benefit from any claim, from LV, she should only receive enough money to 
resolve her loss. So I think its reasonable for me to off-set the £206 credit Mrs K has, 
against the £280 Ive so far said LV should pay Mrs K for the loss of use of her car. That 
would leave LV reasonably owing Mrs K £74 for loss of use (£280 minus £206) and £75 plus 
interest for the taxi journeys. 
Therefore, I intend to require LV to do the following only:   
Pay Mrs K £74 as outstanding compensation for loss of use of her car for 28 days, 
starting on 25 November 2019 and ending on 22 December 2019, with LV already 
having paid £206 of the total £280 due for this period.
Pay Mrs K £75 as reimbursement for three specific taxi journeys taken between 
25 November 2019 and 22 December 2019, plus 8% simple interest per year on each 
journey cost of £25 from the date of the journey until settlement is made.
Mr A and Mrs K didnt reply further. LV indicated that its objections about paying Mrs K for 
loss of use and taxi journeys still remained. In respect of those points it said:
It had explained previously that Mrs K hadnt chosen to pay for courtesy car cover  
which meant shed only be entitled to a replacement car whilst its garage was doing 
repairs  and it didnt start doing repairs on 25 November 2019.
Mr A/Mrs K caused delays in the repairs both by trying to include non-accident related 
damage into the repair program and because they had heavily modified the car. So it 
shouldnt have to compensate them for delays theyd caused.
It inspected the car the next working day after the repairs were completed on 
18 December 2019, and arranged a hire car for them that day (23 December 2019) as it 
was apparent the engineers report, once received, would show additional work was still 
required.
Based on all of this it wouldnt be fair for it, in respect of the period 25 November to 
22 December 2019 to compensate Mrs K for her loss of use of a car or to reimburse her 
cost of taxi journeys.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regarding Mr As concern that the issue about the screw in the engine hadnt been 
adequately considered, Id draw his attention to the fifth paragraph of my provisional findings 
quoted above. I explained my view on this issue and that my conclusion was I simply cant 
be sure, even on balance, that the screw was in the engine due to the work completed by 
LVs garage. Mr A hasn't provided any additional evidence which I hadn't previously 
considered so theres nothing I can reasonably add on this point. 
Neither party has objected to my view on compensation for non-financial loss or my further 
finding made about the cost of paintwork repairs. So my views, that LV has paid fair and 
reasonable compensation and that it has more than fairly and reasonably paid for repairing 
the paintwork already by its payment of £614.11, remain unchanged. 
Nor did either party object to my view that the overpayment made by LV, of £206, given it 
had paid £614.11 for repairs which would only cost £408 to complete, should be off-set against the £280 Id provisionally said LV should pay in respect of Mrs Ks loss of use of her 
car. So I wont review that finding either.
It remains for me to consider LVs objection to paying Mrs K anything at all for the loss of use 
of her car and three taxi journeys she took, all during the period 25 November to 
22 December 2019. Mrs K didnt pay to have use of a courtesy car in the event of an 
accident. But the fact that she chose to not go to that expense doesnt mean LV shouldnt 
compensate her for losses and costs she incurred on account of its failings. Likewise delays 
Mr A and Mrs K might have caused before 25 November 2019 dont reasonably impact LVs 
liability for losses and cost incurred after this date on account of its failings. I note LV acted 
on 23 December 2019 to arrange a hire car for Mrs K, which was even before it had seen its 
engineers report. I think that was reasonable of it.
I remain of the view that, as of 25 November 2019, LV had taken Mrs Ks car into its control. 
It did that so it could inspect the car in response to concerns Mr A and Mrs K had raised 
about the repairs it had completed. And, whether or not all of their concerns were accepted, 
as a result of the inspection, further repairs to Mrs Ks car were found to be necessary. So, 
from 25 November 2019 Mrs K had no use of her car because LV hadnt completed repairs 
adequately in the first instance. I remain of the view that its fair for LV to compensate Mrs K 
for that by paying her both an allowance in respect of her loss of use, and reimbursement of 
three taxi journeys she took in this period plus interest. But with the allowance due to Mrs K 
being off-set against the benefit of the £206 shes already received from LV as part of the 
£614.11 already paid.  
Putting things right
I require LV to pay Mrs K:
£74 as outstanding compensation for loss of use of her car for 28 days, starting on 
25 November 2019 and ending on 22 December 2019, with LV already having paid £206 
of the total £280 due for this period.
£75 as reimbursement for three specific taxi journeys taken between 25 November 2019 
and 22 December 2019, plus 8% simple interest* per year on each journey cost of £25 
from the date of the journey until settlement is made.
* If income tax is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be 
provided to Mrs K for HMRC purposes. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to provide 
the redress set out above at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman