DRN-3677080
The complaint
Miss F has complained about UK Credit Limited with the help of a claims management 
company.
Miss F complains UK Credit lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In September 2015 Miss F applied for, and was given a guarantor loan for £6,000, which 
was repayable over a period of 60 months. The repayments were around £218 a month, and 
in total  once interest was added  Miss F agreed to pay back just over £13,063 over the 
five years. The loan was fully repaid in May 2020, four months early.
Miss F says UK Credit shouldnt have given her the loan because it wasnt affordable. She 
says as a result of being given the loan she ended up entering into a debt relief order (DRO). 
UK Credit says it did check whether the loan was affordable, and Miss F did have enough 
disposable income to make the loan repayments. It says it also checked Miss Fs credit file 
before agreeing to lend the money to her and this showed four defaults and one County 
Court Judgement (CCJ). It says Miss F confirmed two of the defaulted debts and the CCJ 
debt would be consolidated within the UK Credit loan, together with an existing loan. It says 
Miss F said she would use the new loan funds to repair her current car, and then look to use 
it to part exchange for a new car.
Our investigator thought Miss Fs complaint should be upheld. UK Credit didnt agree so this
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
After reviewing all the information provided in this complaint, my provisional decision was not 
to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained that:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Fs complaint. Having done so, 
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if such checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower who is 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind, and Ive thought carefully about the information UK Credit 
relied on when it decided to lend to Miss F.
Miss F applied for her loan online and then UK Credit gathered some information from Miss 
F before it agreed to lend. It called Miss F to discuss her income and expenditure. During the 
course of Miss Fs loan application, she declared that she was in permanent employment 
and earning £1,100 a month with the possibility to earn more by working extra shifts. She 
also declared that she was living with her parents and had monthly expenditure of around 
£580  which was broken down between the costs of running a car, her mobile phone, 
clothing, leisure activities and what she paid towards her existing debts.
UK Credit carried out a credit check and used this to assess her credit commitments. It also 
asked Miss F for a payslip to validate her monthly income. Those checks suggested that at 
£520, Miss F had enough disposable income each month to afford the £217 loan 
repayments. But I think UK Credit still needed to do more checks following the information it 
got from the call.
Miss F told UK Credit that she intended to use the £6,000 loan to repay bills, repair her 
current car and put the rest towards a new car. She later explains that the bills included a 
CCJ debt for council tax arrears, other defaulted credit accounts and a payday loan. She 
also told UK Credit that the CCJ which was showing on its credit file search as being three
years old with a balance of £339 had increased to £435 after bailiffs were appointed. 
I think this information alone ought to have prompted UK Credit to do more and validate not 
only Miss Fs income but her expenditure too. The appointment of bailiffs by the court 
strongly suggests that Miss F hadnt been repaying the debt despite its value  even after 
the additional fees  being less than the indicative disposable income UK Credit had arrived 
at using her declared expenditure. Whilst the appointment of bailiffs may have prompted 
Miss F to look to refinance the debt, the fact she could not simply repay it from her 
disposable income does, in my opinion, cast significant doubt about the reliability of the 
information she had given UK Credit. I also note that during her application call, Miss F had 
said she could work extra shifts if needed, but this too hadnt allowed her to repay this 
modest debt nor prevent the appointment of bailiffs.
As Im not satisfied UK Credits checks were reasonable and proportionate, Ive gone on to 
consider what reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown. This has not been 
an easy task because of the incongruity of the information Miss F gave to UK Credit when 
she applied for the loan and the information Miss F has given us in support of her complaint.
Miss F gave UK Credit copies of her contract of employment, her July 2015 savings account 
statement and her September 2015 payslip. The employment contract dated from 2012 
confirmed Miss F was employed on a permanent basis with a basic annual salary of 
£13,903. The payslip (from the same employer named on the employment contract) showed 
her take home pay for September at £1,078 and her savings account statement showed her salary credit for May and June 2015, both at £1,070. It also shows Miss F withdrew the full 
amount of her salary in cash as soon as it was credited.
UK Credit could have carried out more detailed checks in several ways  from asking for 
more bank statements to copies of bills and/or bailiffs demand letters for example. I accept 
that something I can now see from information Miss F has provided wouldnt necessarily 
have been revealed by whatever reasonable and proportionate checks UK Credit might have 
decided to carry out. But I think whatever UK Credit asked from Miss F would have given it a 
better understanding of Miss Fs circumstances at the time to help decide whether further 
questions may then needed to have been asked or whether to agree the lending for her. 
Miss F provided the investigator with her bank current account statements. These were for a 
different account to the statement she gave UK Credit when she applied for the loan. They 
covered the time from January 2015 right up until September 2020.
Miss Fs January, May and September 2015 bank statements show her receiving student 
loan payments in addition to her employment income. Our investigator asked Miss F to 
confirm her employment status when she couldnt see a corresponding credit into her bank 
account for the September 2015 payslip. Miss F replied to say she had started as a full-time 
student in September 2015, and she was employed on a zero-hour contract but did not work 
any shifts that month. However, Miss Fs recollections appear at odds with what the January, 
May and September 2015 statements show given she was already in receipt of student loan 
credits before she says she started as a student in September 2015 and despite saying she 
did not work any shifts in September 2015, there is a payslip to suggest otherwise.
In the absence of any other contemporaneous evidence of Miss Fs financial circumstances 
from UK Credit, and as were now a number of years on from when she was lent to, its not 
only reasonable but necessary to rely on her bank statements.
I think a three-month period would have given UK Credit sufficient insight had it requested 
bank statements for this time. So, it is fair and reasonable that I only rely now on the 
statements covering June, July and August 2015. And, I cant place weight on Miss Fs 
potential student status.
Having looked at the statements for the period in question, they reveal some material 
differences compared to the information Miss F gave UK Credit  for example there is a 
£450 standing order payable to a lettings company each month but Miss F told UK Credit 
she lived with parents and didnt pay rent. There are payments in June (£92) and August 
(£159), which the narrative most likely suggests were towards a logbook loan lender  and 
which do not show on UK Credits credit search. This is in addition to the £61 she declared 
that she paid each month to an existing guarantor loan. Miss F told UK Credit she paid £45 
each month for her mobile phone but her statements show she paid £107 in June and 
August  a significant difference. They also show she was paying £60 and £40 each month 
to two different debt collection companies  these were discussed during the call and Miss F 
said she intended to repay these debts with the new loan.
Overall, when I look at the statements in question, they show Miss Fs average 
nondiscretionary spend at £875 per month, which, after the proposed new loan repayment of 
£217, would leave her with little to no free income. But Miss F told UK Credit she was 
intending to use the new loan to repay some of her existing debts and free-up £160 each 
month. The statements also show she received extra employment income, separate to the 
salary credit into her savings account, and that this averaged at £320 each month. These 
would leave Miss F with around £480 after the proposed new loan repayment each month, 
which is more than the figure UK Credit arrived at during its telephone assessment.
The investigator pointed out that Miss F had two missed payments on her existing guarantor 
loan, which she had taken out six months earlier  and the investigator placed substantial 
weight on this in reaching her recommendation to uphold the complaint.These missed payments fell in June and August 2015 and I can see the returned direct debit 
payments on Miss Fs bank statements. I can also see that Miss F made two payments to 
the lender in question in July 2015. I think from the information on her statements, Miss F 
had sufficient funds to cover the repayments but not all of the funds had cleared in time to 
meet the direct debit payments  which is different to not having sufficient funds to meet the 
repayment. And UK Credit could see from its credit file search that the payments were up to 
date in July 2015, when two payments were made that month. So, I disagree with the 
investigators assessment and I dont think this is strong enough a reason to say UK Credit 
should not have lent to Miss F.
For reasons Ive already explained, while I think UK Credit could have done more  at the 
time of the application  to satisfy itself Miss F was able to sustainably repay this loan, 
reviewing all the information we have about Miss Fs circumstances from that time shows if 
proportionate checks had been carried out by UK Credit, it would still have been reasonable 
to lend to Miss F at that time.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 31 August 2022. UK Credit has acknowledged receiving the 
decision and said it agrees with the provisional findings. Miss Fs claims management 
company has also replied confirming receipt of my provisional findings, disagreeing with 
them but didnt explain why or what it disagreed with and didnt make any further comment. 
Ive reviewed all the available evidence and arguments again to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Neither Miss F nor UK Credit have given 
further comments in reply to my provisional findings. So, Ive not seen enough for me to alter 
my provisional conclusions. 
In summary, I am satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks wouldnt have 
prevented UK Credit from lending. Im not persuaded that more detailed checks would have 
given UK Credit a reason to think that the lending was likely to have been unsustainable 
and/or unaffordable for Miss F.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman