DRN-3793940
The complaint
Miss D complains about how she was treated by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
when she went into branch to change the name on her credit card account.
What happened
Miss D has had a credit card account with NatWest for a number of years. She says she 
contacted NatWest on the phone to change the name on the account, however it told her 
she would need to do this in branch.
Miss D then went into branch to change the name on her account and also tried to locate a 
dormant current account she says she had. Miss D says she provided the representative of 
NatWest with identification in order to carry out the name change. Upon doing this, the 
member of staff noted that Miss Ds driving license stated that she was born in a different 
country and so she would also need to provide evidence of her right to reside in the UK. 
Miss D says she was very upset by this and felt that she had been discriminated against by 
NatWests staff member. She says this happened in the middle of a branch and in front of 
other customers. And she was left feeling humiliated and distressed.
After this, Miss D was taken into a private room by the branch manager. Miss D says the 
branch manager apologised for what had happened. They explained that the name on her 
account could have been changed without the evidence of her right to reside in the UK  this 
was only needed when opening a new account or taking out lending. 
NatWest responded to Miss Ds complaint and offered to pay her £200 to put things right. It 
said it recognised that it got things wrong and could have done more to help Miss D. Miss D 
didnt think the compensation NatWest had offered was enough to put things right for her 
and so she referred her complaint to this service. 
Our Investigator looked into Miss Ds complaint and they thought it should be upheld  and 
thought NatWest should pay Miss D £300 in total. The Investigator didnt think that NatWest 
had followed the correct process when explaining to Miss D the information it needed to 
change the name on the account. The Investigator also recognised the upset and distress 
that this had caused Miss D and so thought that £300 was a more appropriate amount to put 
things right.
NatWest agreed with the Investigators view, but Miss D didnt.
In summary, Miss D explained that she had been discriminated against and NatWest needed 
to do more to put things right for her. She also provided information on how much the courts 
would settle this type of claim for  and so she thought NatWest should pay her somewhere 
in the region of £800-£8000.
Because Miss D didnt agree with the Investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Miss D for providing the detail she has done in response to our Investigators 
view. I have read and taken into account everything that both parties have submitted, 
however, my findings will only address matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint. So, I wont address every point that has been raised. I trust this wont be taken as 
a discourtesy, but this reflects the informal nature of our service. And, to be clear, I consider 
the crux of this complaint to be about the conduct of the representative in branch when Miss 
D went to change the name on her credit card account.
Id like to make Miss D aware that this service is unable to make findings about whether 
discrimination has taken place as per the Equality Act 2010, as this is a matter of law and 
only the courts have the power to decide this. I have, however, considered the relevant law 
in relation to what Miss D has said when deciding whether I think NatWest has acted in a fair 
and reasonable manner. This involves taking a number of different things into consideration, 
including the provisions of The Equality Act 2010. 
NatWest has already accepted that it didnt provide Miss D with a good level of service when 
she went into branch to change the name on her account. Based on what Ive seen, both 
parties largely agree on what happened in branch. Although, Miss D believes she was 
deliberately discriminated against, and NatWest believes that its representative made a 
mistake.
It isnt in dispute that Miss D was asked to provide more information than she needed to in 
order to change the name on her account  and she was asked to provide this extra 
information as a result of her nationality which was visible from her driving licence. So, I can 
understand why Miss D felt she had been treated unfairly as a result of her nationality. 
NatWest has said that its staff member made a mistake in asking for this when Miss D was 
only asking for the name on the account to be changed. It has said that there are 
circumstances in which it might request this type of information, but it didnt need this to 
make a change to the account name. 
Unfortunately, NatWests actions here have caused Miss D a lot of distress and upset. 
Especially given that this information was requested in a public place while she was in 
branch.
NatWest responded to this at the time by taking Miss D to a private room, apologised for the 
upset it had caused her, and carried out the process of changing the name of her account. 
Overall, I agree that NatWests actions caused Miss D unnecessary upset. And I think 
NatWest should do more to put things right for Miss D.  
Putting things right
I have thought about what happened here very carefully when deciding appropriate redress. 
And I think £300 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here. I have no doubt that Miss 
D was very upset about what happened. However, I also think NatWest did what it could to 
try and put things right at the time. For example, Miss D wasnt denied the service shed 
requested, and did get the name on her account changed while she was still in branch. Miss D has sent this service a document which provides context to how much compensation 
the courts would award if it were to find that discrimination had occurred. I dont doubt that 
the courts would take this into account when deciding how much to award. But this service is 
a free alternative to the courts, and we consider compensation awards differently  more 
information about how we look at distress and inconvenience payments is on our website. 
Miss D can of course take her complaint to the court if she does want a higher compensation 
amount. However, any court action would likely incur other costs that Miss D would need to 
consider before proceeding. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ds complaint. I order National Westminster 
Bank Plc to pay Miss D a total of £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman