DRN-3022858
The complaint
Miss C and Mr H complain about U K Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under their 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss C and Mr H have an insurance policy underwritten by UKI which covers damage to the 
buildings at their home, amongst other things.
Theyve had a long-standing problem with the large detached garage at their home, which 
everyone agrees is being affected by subsidence caused by large trees close to the 
propertys boundary.
Although the issue had been raised before (in 2002, as I understand it), Miss C and Mr H 
made a claim under their policy in 2007. 
That claim has been on-going ever since. Miss C and Mr H brought a complaint to us several 
years ago. The upshot of that was that we instructed UKI to demolish and rebuild the 
garage, rather than attempt repairs to the existing structure. That was in September 2018.
Remarkably, the claim had still not been settled by early 2020. Miss C and Mr H then made 
a complaint about the delays to UKI, who provided a final response in Aril 2020, offering 
£3,000 in compensation for the delays and poor service. Miss C and Mr H werent happy 
with this outcome and brought their complaint to us.  
Our investigator looked into it and thought the £3,000 compensation for Miss C and Mr Hs 
trouble and upset was fair and reasonable.
Miss C and Mr H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I neednt go into the long and convoluted background to this case in any great detail. Both 
UKI and Miss C and Mr H are well aware of the history. And both agree that UKI have failed 
to provide the service Miss C and Mr H were entitled to expect.
In short, there has been a huge delay in resolving the claim. Primarily due, in my view, to 
UKIs indecision about how to deal with the problem. This has continued even after the 
direction from our service in September 2018, about what UKI should do.
I can see from UKIs claim records and notes that some of that delay has been the result of 
misunderstandings on the part of the contractors theyve asked to inspect the property and 
devise a plan for works to rectify the issue. But UKI are responsible for managing those 
contractors and responsible for delivering an appropriate level of service to Miss C and Mr H.
Their notes also show that UKI are palpably aware that theyve failed in that respect. The 
time its taken to resolve this matter quite frankly beggars belief.
A cash settlement has now been agreed between UKI and Miss C and Mr H, which will allow 
them to demolish and rebuild their garage. And it appears everyone is satisfied with that 
outcome.
So, the only question for me to resolve in this case is whether the £3,000 compensation 
provided by UKI is fair and reasonable or whether Miss C and Mr H have a right to expect a 
greater amount.
Our investigator thought £3,000 was fair and reasonable compensation. In response to his 
view, Miss C and Mr H pointed out that theyve been living with the stress and strain of the 
outstanding claim for many years now.
They believe theyve been deliberately and wrongly victimised by UKI. They note that the 
delay has been almost entirely UKIs fault, not theirs. And they think £3,000 isnt adequate 
punishment for UKIs serious and protracted failings in handling this claim.
They also suggested UKI had been deceitful in offering £3,000 compensation in response to 
the recent complaint, when in fact that figure includes £2,000 which was offered to Miss C 
and Mr H in 2017, but not accepted.
I have to ask Miss C and Mr H to understand that its not our role (as defined in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys rules which govern our operations) to punish UKI  or any other financial 
business.
Our role is to deal with individual complaints and, where a business has made a mistake, to 
ensure that the customer is: (a) put back in the position they should have been in had the 
error not occurred; and/or (b) compensated appropriately for the trouble and upset theyve 
suffered.
We would regard £3,000 as a reasonably significant award. And wed expect that kind of 
compensation payment where a businesss mistakes have caused prolonged distress and/or 
severe disruption to the customers daily life.
I have no doubt the outstanding claim for the garage has caused a degree of stress and 
worry for Miss C and Mr H. And it has caused that stress and worry for a very long period of 
time.
However, I have to take in to account how acute that stress and worry has been. And 
whether there has been a significant impact on Miss C and Mr Hs daily lives.
As I understand it, the garage has remained standing over the course of the many years 
since the claim was made. And Miss C and Mr H have continued to use it. So, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Miss C and Mr H have suffered any significant inconvenience or 
that their daily lives have been affected by the fact that the garage hasnt been repaired or 
replaced.
So, whilst I know this will disappoint Miss C and Mr H  and whilst I recognise that this claim 
has been on-going for an extraordinary amount of time  I do think the £3,000 compensation 
provided by UKI is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.I can see that there may have been some confusion about whether that £3,000 included or 
was in addition to the £2,000 previously offered but not accepted in 2017. I think UKI might 
have made that clearer to Miss C and Mr H. 
But its absolutely clear from UKIs claim notes that it was always intended that the £3,000 
included the earlier £2,000. More importantly, as far as my decision is concerned, Im 
satisfied that £3,000 in total  rather than £5,000  is fair and reasonable compensation for 
Miss C and Mr Hs trouble and upset.
I understand that UKI have already provided a cheque for £3,000 to Miss C and Mr H. Its for 
Miss C and Mr H to decide whether they cash that cheque now or reject my decision and 
pursue the matter by other means.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman