DRN-2890761
The complaint
Miss C (represented by Mr C) says that after she took out a motor insurance policy through 
BISL Limited, a device fitted to her car malfunctioned, and BISL failed to resolve the issue.
What happened
Miss Cs policy ran for a year from 18 September 2018. A black box monitoring device was 
fitted to her car. She says she had problems with the battery draining throughout the period 
and had to keep recharging it. In 2019 a new insurer fitted a different black box, but the issue 
continued, so Miss S replaced the battery. She says her new insurer established that its 
device wasnt at fault. Finally, in March 2021, after Miss C took the car to a dealership 
garage for investigation, it said the original device had been draining the battery. Miss C 
says after that device was disconnected by the garage, there were no further problems.
BISL said its black box was deactivated in September 2019, shortly after the policy lapsed. It 
said Miss C didnt complain about the box during the policy term - and it was five months 
after it ended that she first had the battery replaced. It noted that she had a software update 
done in October 2020, which didnt solve the issue. It was a further four months before the 
dealership garage said the fault was due to the first black box device. BISL said there was 
no evidence of that, but that it would consider a report from the garage if Miss C provided it.
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Cs complaint. In her opinion, Miss C hadnt shown 
that BISL needed to do anything. She said there was nothing to show that the first box was 
transmitting any data from September 2019 - and that as there were several reasons that a 
battery might drain, an explanatory report from the dealership garage may help. 
Mr C said the statement made by the dealership garage was unequivocal and that BISL 
couldnt show the box wasnt transmitting data. He didnt think Miss C should have to pay for 
a report from the garage, so he asked for a review of Miss Cs complaint by an ombudsman. 
Meanwhile, BISL provided a screen shot showing that the last data transmitted by the box 
was on 18 September 2019, the date the policy lapsed. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On its invoice dated 3 March 2021, the dealership garage stated that it had replaced the 
battery and that the 2018 device was disconnected due to drain on battery. There was 
no further explanation about the diagnosis, nor has one been provided to date for BISL to 
consider. I think it was reasonable for BISL to say that a bare assertion from the garage isnt 
enough to show that its device was at fault  as well as offering to consider any further 
information provided by the garage.
 
As Miss C didnt raise the issue with BISL during the policy term, it couldnt investigate it at 
the time. BISL says the device was deactivated / switched off remotely when the policy 
lapsed, so it wouldnt have used any more power. It has provided a screen shot showing the 
last location of the car that it was sent via the device  dated on the day the policy lapsed. I 
think thats a good indicator that the device didnt transmit any further data. But Mr C has 
suggested that it could still have been using power and draining the battery. 
My understanding is that its possible for a monitoring device to do that after disconnection.  
After Miss C took out the 2019 policy, she had the battery replaced five months later. On the 
invoice, the garage made no reference to the possibility of the battery draining due to one of 
the monitoring devices. Miss C says the new insurer later checked that its device wasnt 
malfunctioning. I havent seen anything to show how that was established by the new 
insurer, and it seems BISL hasnt either. 
As there are various reasons why a battery may drain, in order to hold BISL at fault, I think 
Miss C would have to provide evidence from the dealership garage about how it reached its 
conclusion that BISLs device was to blame. I dont think its enough for Miss C or Mr C to 
say that must be the case as they think there was no more drainage on the battery after the 
dealership garage disconnected the device in 2021.  
Its still open to Miss C to provide BISL with new evidence that might persuade it to change 
its view. If Miss C does so, and still isnt happy with its decision, she may make a further 
complaint, which we would be able to consider in due course. Currently, I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable to uphold her complaint.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman