DRN-1362492
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave them unsuitable investment advice 
which resulted in them losing the benefit of their investments being within an ISA.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F were invested in HSBCs Premier Investment Management Service (PIMS) 
portfolio as from 2012 with their money being ISA wrapped so no capital gains or income tax 
was payable on any gains. They saw an adviser in 2019 because they wanted their family to 
benefit from their money without having to go through probate.
The adviser recommended they invest money that was in the PIMS portfolio each into an 
investment bond. As a result of the advisers recommendation around £23,000 was 
taken out of Mr F's ISA and around £134,000 from Mrs F's ISA so they lost the tax benefits 
of their money being within an ISA.
HSBC acknowledged that the advice wasnt suitable. It offered to; refund the advice fee plus 
interest; pay the tax payable as a result of no longer being in an ISA wrapper; pay £500 for 
the trouble and upset caused.
Mr and Mrs F accepted the offer for repayment of the fee but not the offer made for the tax 
payable or the amount offered for trouble and upset. They referred the complaint to us and 
one of our investigators considered it but didnt think it should be upheld.
He said he was satisfied that HSBC had used the methodology we would use when 
calculating the tax payable as a result of no longer being in an ISA. He calculated that Mr F 
wouldnt receive more than his divided allowance each year so no tax was payable by him 
for being outside an ISA.
The investigator said Mrs F would have an increased tax liability but that the amount payable 
was as calculated and offered by HSBC. He also thought the £500 offered for trouble and 
upset was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with the investigator. They said that as a result of what HSBC had 
done they would now need to deal with the tax man whereas before they didnt. They 
suggested an award of around £2,000 was more appropriate for the inconvenience. The 
investigator responded but didnt change his opinion.
As Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am not going to uphold 
this complaint for reasons I will explain.I note that the Financial Planning Report prepared by the adviser shows that the loss of the 
tax benefits of their ISAs was something the adviser considered and discussed with Mr and 
Mrs F. The adviser stated that he wouldnt normally recommend taking money out of an ISA 
as the returns are free of capital gains and income tax and the funds cant be replaced.
His reason for recommending coming out of the ISA's in this case was because Mr and Mrs 
Fs objective was to pass the money they had invested to their family without the need for 
probate. The adviser recommended they do this through a probate trust, which wasnt 
something that could be done with the ISA's.
Although the adviser clearly set out that Mr and Mrs F would lose the tax benefits of their 
ISA's, so they were made aware of this. But HSBC has accepted that the advice was 
unsuitable.
So the remaining issue in this complaint is about the redress offered by HSBC. As Mr and 
Mrs F have already agreed to the amount offered for repayment of the fees they paid I dont 
need to consider that. But in any event I think the amount offered is reasonable and in line 
with what I wouldve awarded.
With regard to the calculation of the tax payable as a result of coming out of the 
ISA's HSBC has used an assumed dividend rate of 2.5% which is in line with how we 
approach redress when someone has lost the benefits of a stocks and shares ISA.
HSBC has calculated this over a 10 year period. This s the period we generally use where 
the money outside of an ISA can't be put back into an ISA. This is where the customer has 
sufficient other money each year to make use of their ISA allowance. A period of 10 years is 
assumed as the period the money would've otherwise have been held in an ISA.
So the approach that HSBC has used is in line with the approach we would normally take in 
a where the money won't be put back in an ISA so it isn't possible to put the customer back 
in the position they would've been in. But I don't think that is the position Mr and Mrs F are 
in.
I think it is reasonably clear on the information in the fact find that Mr and Mrs F don't have 
sufficient other money available each year to make use of the ISA allowances. In addition on 
the information I have seen thye didnt make use of their allowance each year.
Given the amount that Mr F removed from his ISA, of around £23,000, and the current ISA 
allowance of £20,000, he can largely rectify the position with regard to the money currently 
outside of an ISA within a year - and fully rectify it within two years. So any loss resulting 
form additional tax payable would be limited to that period.
But he actually doesn't have any tax to pay on this money anyway, based on the 
assumptions we use. This is because there is a dividend allowance of £2,000 each year so  
if his dividend income is below this no tax is payable. The evidence I have seen doesn't 
suggest he received dividend income from elsewhere and based on the amount in question 
of around £23,000, and our usual dividend rate of 2.5%, it is clear he will not exceed the 
allowance.
Mrs F had substantially more taken out of her ISA, and applying the same methodology as 
for Mr F she will have to pay tax that she would not otherwise have had to pay but for having 
come out of her ISA. And it will take her some time to put all of her money back in an ISA 
given the allowance of £20,000 each year. Even so, she should be able to rectify the position 
in less than 10 years.HSBC has calculated redress on the basis that the whole amount currently outside of the 
ISA will remain outside of an ISA for 10 years. But, as I have explained, I can see no reason 
Mrs F can't make use of the ISA allowance to put £20,000 back into an ISA each year.
If she does this she will not need to pay all of the money back into an ISA before she gets to 
a point where no additional tax is payable. If she paid £60,000 back into an ISA within three 
years this amount would no longer be subject to tax. But in addition the amount remaining 
outside of the ISA would amount to less than £80,000. Given the dividend rate we apply of 
2.5% the amount remaining outside of the ISA wouldn't generate more than the dividend 
allowance of £2,000. So after three years no additional tax would be payable. Despite this 
HSBC has calculated redress on the basis that tax will be payable over the full 10 years.
In the circumstances I am satisfied that HSBC's calculation of redress and the offer it has 
made for the additional tax payable is fair and reasonable. 
I note what Mr and Mrs F have said about earning a greater return 2.5%. But even if I was 
willing to depart from our usual approach, given HSBC has calculated tax payable over 10 
years when I think the period is actually less than this,I am not persuaded the amount it has 
offered is unreasonable.
That leaves the amount offered of £500 for the trouble and upset caused. I note the point 
made by Mr and Mrs F about having to deal with the tax man when this wasnt necessary 
previously  although only Mrs F will actually have any tax to pay. I acknowledge this will 
cause some inconvenience.
I also think they will have been caused some distress and inconvenience as a result of 
having lost the benefits of their ISA's in the first place. But Im not satisfied that £500 is an 
unreasonable amount to compensate them for this.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman