DRN-2839034
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has registered a marker about her at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
Miss B applied for a current account with Barclays in 2017. It didnt accept her application. In 
2020 she complained when she found out that it had also registered the fraud marker which 
was affecting her ability to open a business and her mental health.
Barclays said it wouldnt be removing the marker. Miss B hadnt disclosed an address which 
she had used for credit in the prior three years and there was a related default at that 
address. It said Miss B had concealed this to help her get an account.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said that Miss B had 
provided two addresses when she made her application. One which she said she had been 
living at since June 2015 and the other her parents address where she had been living since 
2005. 
Miss B had now explained that in fact she had lived at a third address with her partner 
between 2004 and 2011. She said that she had been homeless after that and moved into the 
temporary accommodation in 2015. Miss B accepted that she had applied for the pay day 
loan in question in 2016 and that it had defaulted in April 2017 although she couldnt 
remember this or explain why she had used this other address. She has provided evidence 
from her GP about her severe mental health problems at this time and our investigator 
thought these were relevant to her actions and that this had all been a mistake. He also 
could see why if Miss B hadnt lived at the third address since 2012 she mightnt think she 
needed to have disclosed it to Barclays. 
Our investigator said he didnt think that Miss B deliberately intended to defraud Barclays. 
And he didnt think that the high bar for adding a CIFAS marker had been met. He said that 
the marker should be removed, and Miss B paid £250 in compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused to her.
Barclays didnt agree. It said that it had referred this to CIFAS, and it had said that as Miss B 
didnt disclose material information when she made her application that its standard of proof 
was met. Barclays also said that our investigator had agreed that Miss Bs address history 
had been inconsistent throughout and it wouldnt consider any compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
The address Miss B provided to Barclays at the time of her application is described on the 
providers website as being temporary supported housing for vulnerable young people who 
are homeless or at risk of being homeless. She said on her application she was unemployed 
and gave details of her benefit income. Ive seen evidence that her benefit payments were 
related to health conditions. The other address she gave was that of her parents and was 
the one at which her identification details were registered.
Miss B has recently provided clear evidence from her GP who states that she was 
extremely mentally unwell, really from 2015 onwards, but particularly in 2016/7. I would be 
most grateful if this could be taken into account when assessing her situation with regards to 
debts she may have got into. The GP goes into detail about her specific conditions. Having 
considered this carefully I think it most likely that this was a relevant consideration in her 
actions at this time.
Ive looked at what CIFAS said to Barclays about the marker and which Barclays has 
submitted as evidence. Importantly CIFAS says that We are aware that there are a number 
of varied factors that might lead to a false application, and there are instances in which 
mitigating circumstances may mean that an individual would not have been aware that their 
actions were wrong. However, having reviewed the evidence of the case, I'm satisfied that 
the standard of proof to file has been met.
It isnt in dispute as Barclays says that Miss B didnt disclose an address with information 
that was material to her application. That I accept could be grounds for a CIFAS marker to 
be registered. 
I clearly take into account what CIFAS has said in a complaint about whether a marker 
applying its own standards was fairly applied. But I am entitled to make my own decision 
about this and weigh the information to decide Miss Bs intent and what is fair and 
reasonable. It is clear to me that Miss Bs accommodation arrangements were unstable, that 
she was vulnerable, and she had mental health issues relevant to her behaviour. She says 
on her complaint form that she wanted a basic bank account. 
In these particular circumstances Im not satisfied that it is most likely her intent was to 
defraud Barclays and deliberately conceal a past default to do so. I can see that while she 
was homeless and said she was often sleeping on the street she mightnt think she had 
another address to report. And I think that her wider personal issues likely meant in any 
event that this didnt even occur to her despite having used it as a basis to obtain what she 
explains were a number of payday loans.
Putting things right
Given my findings I dont think that there was a basis for the marker fairly to be recorded. It 
should be removed. I agree with our investigator that Miss B should be paid £250 for the 
trouble and upset caused to her.  My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
- Remove the CIFAS marker
- Pay Miss B £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman