DRN-2667981
The complaint
Ms C complains that Skipton Financial Services Ltd (Skipton) gave her poor and unclear 
advice. She says this led to investment losses. She also says that shes been charged a 
higher advice fee than expected.
What happened
Ms C met with an adviser from Skipton in November 2019. The adviser covered a number of 
the investments Ms C held. One of the outcomes of the meeting was that Ms C was advised 
to contribute to a personal pension. This would lead to a 20% tax rebate. The contribution 
was advised to be made from Ms Cs Stocks and Shares ISA.
At the time of advice, the value of the ISA was £29,595.69. Allowing for the effect of the tax 
rebate, this would equate to a pension contribution of £36,994.61. The initial charge for the 
advice was set as 2.5% of that pension contribution. Ms C understood that completing the 
transaction would lead to pension tax relief of £7,398.92.
During the meeting in November 2019, Ms C was given some forms needed for the process. 
But she wasnt given the form shed need to encash her ISA ahead of its reinvestment into 
pension. 
A Suitability Report covering the advice was issued to Ms C. This stated that the advice fee 
to be charged would be £924.76. It also said that the advice was based on Ms Cs personal 
circumstances. And stated she should read the report again to make sure it accurately 
summarised her financial needs. It said she should call if she had any questions. 
Ms C signed most of the forms required on 11 January 2020. But the encashment from 
wasnt signed until 7 March 2020. 
Ms C said that her adviser dropped the paperwork she needed to sign on 18 December 
2019. She said she didnt understand what the encashment form meant. So it wouldve been 
helpful to have had it explained. 
Skipton confirmed that they received most of the forms they needed in January 2020. All of 
the required forms were received in early March 2020. So they encashed Ms Cs ISA. 
Ms C emailed her adviser on 20 March 2020 to ask her what she should do next. And she 
called Skipton on 23 March 2020. She was unhappy that the value of her ISA had reduced. 
She wanted to know what to do while markets were low. 
Ms C contacted her adviser on 26 March 2020 to tell her £24,937.80 had arrived in her bank 
account. So she could now write a cheque for the pension contribution. 
Over the next few days, Ms C called Skipton again to check on the progress of her pension 
contribution. She was anxious to ensure the contribution was invested as soon as possible. 
Ms Cs pension contribution was completed on 1 April 2020.
Ms C called Skipton at other times during April 2020. She was concerned that the fee for the 
advice shed received remained at the level initially calculated, even though the value of her 
pension contribution had reduced. Ms C also couldnt understand why her ISA had been 
encashed when the stock market was about to fall further. 
Ms C complained to Skipton on 27 April 2020 about the following issues. She said:
1. it had never been explained to her that her ISA would have to be encashed before 
the pension contribution could be paid. This had exposed her to the falling stock 
market at the time of the encashment. 
2. it hadnt been explained to her how long it would take to receive the pension tax relief 
element of the investment. She noted that the falling stock market meant that the tax 
relief she would benefit from was now over £1,000 lower than shed expected
3. shed still been charged 2.5% of the expected pension contribution, not the actual 
pension contribution. She felt shed received unclear advice which had lost her 
money. 
She wanted Skipton to waive the advice fee and invest that money into her pension fund. 
And she wanted them to calculate and repay the losses she felt shed incurred due to being 
out of the market between 16 March 2020 and 30 March 2020. She also wanted Skipton to 
make up the shortfall in the pension tax relief shed expected.
Skipton sent their final response letter on 30 June 2020. They didnt uphold the complaint. 
They said:
1. Out of market risk was covered in the Suitability Report. They never tried to time the 
market. And they questioned how they could know when the bottom of the market 
had been reached. 
2. The timing of the tax relief wasnt something Skipton could control as it would be 
handled by the pension provider. 
3. They said they calculate the fee based on the valuation they get at the time they do 
the research needed for the advice. And that it wouldnt be reasonable to expect 
them to recalculate that fee when the trade goes through. 
Skipton said that theyd provided appropriate information on the recommended transactions 
and had followed correct procedure throughout. Therefore they couldnt agree to Ms Cs 
request for compensation.
Unhappy with their response, Ms C brought her complaint to this service. In his 3 December 
2020 view, our investigator didnt feel the complaint should be upheld. He accepted that Ms 
C had suffered a loss of expectation due to the reduced values. But he didnt think Skipton 
had done anything wrong.
Ms C didnt agree. She said that the tax relief shed expected was destroyed because she 
made the investment just as the stock market fell. She felt the financial specialists shouldve 
known this would happen. She said she hadnt been made aware that she had to encash her 
ISA. So she didnt appreciate there could be consequences of a falling market. She did 
agree that she knew there could be fluctuation in the value of her investment, but as she felt 
the ISA would be transferred directly into the pension, she didnt think this mattered. She 
was astonished that Skiptons fee didnt also vary. She said she accepted the fee based on 
the final investment, and felt shed now paid 3%, not 2.5%. Ms C said she felt that our 
investigator had not considered the paperwork shed submitted to support her complaint. Our investigator asked Skipton for further information. They told him they received the 
signed ISA encashment form on 10 March 2020. And provided a timeline of events. 
Our investigator also asked Skipton why they hadnt alerted Ms C about the change in value 
before her ISA had been encashed. 
Our investigator issued his endorsement of his initial view on 11 February 2021. Having 
considered the new information provided by Ms C and Skipton, alongside their original 
submissions, he still didnt uphold the complaint.
Still unhappy, Ms C made some additional points. She asked for copies of the forms shed 
signed to be provided. These were provided. She said that she didnt progress the transfer 
until 13 January 2020. She said she dropped her letter and enclosures into her local Skipton 
branch by hand the same day. Ms C asked again why Skipton hadnt asked her to reconfirm 
her decision to encash her ISA given the falling market. Or advise her that this would reduce 
the value of the tax relief. She felt Skipton owed her a duty of care to reconsider her options. 
Our investigator said Ms Cs case would be referred to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
However, Ms C sent in some additional information on 7 March 2021. She said the copy of 
the Suitability Report shed recently been sent was inconsistent with the one shed received 
in December 2019. She highlighted the differences shed noted in that report, and in other 
forms. She said she hadnt ticked the box: PLEASE ENCASH ALL HOLDINGS. Ms C 
referred the ombudsman to her complaint letter dated 27 April 2020. 
Our investigator responded to Ms Cs additional submission on 9 March 2021. He explained 
that this services role wasnt to answer questions in the manner he felt Ms C wanted. But 
instead it is to address whether we think a business did anything wrong. So he said he only 
needed to comment on what he considered to be central to the outcome of whether Skipton 
did anything wrong and caused a direct loss. He said even if Ms C didnt tick the PLEASE 
ENCASH ALL HOLDINGS box shed had the form for long enough before sending it back 
so couldve put a stop to the risk of losses. He told Ms C that a customer is obliged to 
mitigate their own losses. And that she had completed the form and sent it back. So she 
mustve known that encashment of her ISA would take place. He also said that Skipton had 
provided the advice in November 2019 and that Ms C provided the final form in March 2020. 
He said the stock market fall occurred during the time Ms C hadnt completed the forms. So 
he felt that there had been time to prevent loss. And he couldnt conclude that Ms C 
wouldve acted differently if shed had clearer advice about the encashment, as she didnt 
act differently after receiving the encashment form.
As agreement couldnt be reached, Ms Cs case has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know this will be disappointing to Ms C. Ill 
explain why I cant uphold her complaint.
Id like to thank Ms C for all of the information shes provided. While I havent commented on 
every point she brought up, I have reviewed all of the information. And Ive focussed on what 
I consider to be the key issues in my decision. 
In his view, our investigator went into detail about why he felt the advice Skipton gave Ms C 
was suitable. I agree with what he said. As Ms C hasnt complained that the overall advice was unsuitable, I wont cover that again in my decision. 
The main part of this complaint boils down to whether Ms C was aware that her Stocks and 
Shares ISA would have to be encashed before the pension contribution could be made.
Skipton said she was made aware. Ms C said she wasnt. Ill look at this part of the 
complaint first. 
Was Ms C aware her ISA needed to be encashed?
Ms C said that her adviser: never did advise me during our meeting that my ISA had to be 
cashed in. She also said that her adviser: just dropped the paperwork off for me to sign on 
18 December. Unfortunately, I did not understand what the Form meant  it seems obvious 
now  now it has been explained to me  it was not at the time. 
Skipton said that their adviser had: confirmed she did make you aware of the need to 
encash your ISA again at the time you signed the encashment form. This encashment form 
itself did specify your holdings would be encashed and included your bank account details 
for the remittance of the proceeds. Ms Cs adviser also confirmed that the need to encash 
the ISA was covered during the recommendations meeting.
I have no way of knowing what was said at Ms Cs recommendation meeting. Both parties 
present at that meeting remember what happened differently. But I do have a copy of the 
Suitability Report and the signed encashment form. 
The Suitability Report doesnt cover how the transaction would work. But it does cover 
attitude to risk and ability to bear loss. 
But the encashment form states at the top of the first page: Please be advised the proceeds 
could take 10-15 working days from receipt of this form with the provider. This is a clear 
indication that the transfer wouldnt be direct from the ISA to the pension contribution. The 
form also shows that the box marked PLEASE ENCASH ALL HOLDINGS has been ticked. 
Underneath this the form states: I understand that the values provided are not guaranteed 
and can fluctuate on a daily basis. And I am aware that the value may have changed since 
my original request to take payment from my account. The form then contains Ms Cs bank 
details and has been signed and dated by her. 
I acknowledge that Ms C said she didnt tick the PLEASE ENCASH ALL HOLDINGS box. I 
accept that its possible the tick was placed in the box by someone else. But Im satisfied 
that Ms C did complete the bank details section of the form. These would only be needed for 
an encashment. Im also satisfied that she signed the form. So Im persuaded that she 
wanted the transaction to go ahead.
I consider that the encashment form makes it clear that the ISA would have to be cashed in, 
then there would be a wait of 10-15 working days before the money reached its destination. 
So I dont consider that Ms C didnt know how the transaction shed agreed to would 
proceed. And if she hadnt understood how it would proceed at this point, she couldve called 
Skipton to ask.
Ms C returned the first set of paperwork on 11 January 2020, but not the encashment form. 
Ive no information about why that form wasnt included with the rest of the paperwork at that 
time. Ms C said that she received the encashment from on 18 December 2019, which shows 
that she couldve completed it alongside the other forms. So, while I accept that the 
encashment form wasnt given to Ms C initially, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
hold Skipton responsible for the delay in returning it. So I cant hold Skipton responsible for the transaction being delayed. 
At the point Ms C signed the form, indicating shed read and taken on board what it said, 
stock markets were already volatile. 
Ms C felt shed incurred losses due to being out of the market for the period from 16 March 
2020 to 30 March 2020. But it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold Skipton 
responsible for this out of market period. From what Ive seen, Ms C shouldve known that 
thered be a short period of time when she would be out of the market. When Ms C signed 
the final form on 7 March 2020 it was already evident that the market was volatile. And no 
one had any idea whether the market had reached the bottom yet. I appreciate that once the 
ISA had been encashed, Ms C asked for the pension contribution to be invested when the 
market is as low as possible to avoid losing too much money. I can understand why she 
made this request. But it wasnt a request any investment specialist would be able to meet. If 
Ms Cs pension contribution been held back a few days, and stock markets had risen over 
that time, Ms C couldve made an entirely different complaint about Skipton.
In summary, Im satisfied Ms C did know her ISA would have to be encashed. I dont 
consider that Skipton delayed the process. And I dont consider that Skipton should be 
responsible for whatever happened during the time Ms C was out of the market.  
Should Skipton have alerted Ms C to the volatile stock market?
Ms C said that Skipton shouldve given her the chance to reconsider her decision to move 
her ISA money into pensions, given the stock market had fallen. 
Ms C said Skipton: would have known the significance of the impact of the Pandemic on the 
Stock Market  they should have alerted me to the impact of cashing in my ISA at this time. 
Skipton said that although it was standard practice to alert an investor about an impending 
transfer if the value had changed significantly  although they themselves wouldnt be the 
party doing the alerting - Ms Cs transaction wasn't a transfer. Instead, it was a surrender, 
followed by the investment of the proceeds into her pension. So they said that only the 
previous ISA provider wouldve been aware of the extent of the fall in value at the time of the 
sale. And therefore there was no way they couldve alerted Ms C.
Stock markets first started to react to news of the coronavirus in mid-January 2020. So when 
Ms C completed the first set of forms in early January 2020 shed not have had any reason 
to consider the stock market was about to be very volatile. But by the time she signed the 
encashment from on 7 March 2020, the stock market had been volatile, and falling, for 
several weeks. I appreciate that Ms C isnt a professional investor. But from what Ive seen, 
she was aware of the volatility in the stock market during the course of the transaction she 
was completing. She said: The stock market had already been in free fall from the end of 
February. So I consider that she wouldve been aware that the stock market was already 
volatile when she signed the final form on 7 March 2020. She couldve requested an updated 
value for herself before she signed the final form. But she didnt. So Im satisfied that Ms C 
wanted to go ahead with the transaction despite that volatility. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Skipton couldnt have alerted Ms C that her ISA value had 
significantly reduced. 
Tax relief
Ms C said that it hadnt been explained to her how long it would take to receive the pension 
tax relief element of the investment. She said that she was told on 3 April 2020 that it took up to six weeks to submit the claim for 
tax relief. She felt that by the time the tax relief had been received she wouldve lost out on 
the now increasing stock market. 
Skipton said that the timing of the tax relief wasnt something they could control as it would 
be handled by the pension provider. 
The Suitability Report recommended that £29,595.69 be invested into a personal pension 
plan. And explained that the contribution would benefit from tax relief received at source. So 
the net contribution would be grossed up to £36,994.61 by Ms Cs pension provider. The 
report also explained how pension taxation worked. And mentioned that: planning is 
required around your withdrawals to ensure they are made in the most tax efficient manner. 
The report also said that Ms C should call if she had any questions. 
Given what the Suitability Report said about pension tax relief, Im satisfied Skipton gave Ms 
C enough information on which to make the decision to transact. I appreciate that Ms C 
didnt know exactly how the tax relief would work in practice. And I can see that she 
expected the tax relief to be received immediately. However, if shed wanted to know more 
about this particular aspect of the transaction, she couldve called Skipton for further details. 
In summary, I agree that Skipton didnt fully explain exactly how the tax relief would work in 
practice. But Im satisfied that they provided sufficient information in the Suitability Report to 
enable Ms C to ask additional questions if shed wanted to know more. So I cant hold 
Skipton responsible for how long it takes in practice for tax relief to be received. Im also 
satisfied that even if Ms C had known how long the tax relief would take, she would still have 
made the same investment decision. 
Adviser fee
Ms C said shed been charged 2.5% of the expected pension contribution, not the actual 
pension contribution. 
Skipton said: This charge only becomes applicable once a customer has accepted our 
advice, and we make no charge where a customer decides not to proceed. The charge is 
based on the work undertaken in assessing a customers financial situation, researching 
existing investments and formulating our recommendations based on our findings. Market 
movements following a customers agreement to our advice and associated charge do not 
impact the suitability of the advice, or reduce the amount of work involved in preparing our 
advice.
Skipton also said that although they delivered the advice in early November 2019  before 
the stock market volatility from coronavirus  Ms C decided to wait to proceed. 
The Suitability Report didnt link the advice fee to the value of the pension contribution that 
would eventually be made. Its set out clearly as a fixed fee. So, whatever the eventual 
pension contribution, the charge was going to be the same £ amount. I appreciate that the 
fee was initially calculated based on 2.5% of the value of the expected pension contribution. 
But Ive seen no evidence that Ms C was told it would vary depending on the actual pension 
contribution made. So I dont agree that Skipton should re-calculate it based on the actual 
pension contribution received. Nor do I agree it should be waived. 
Summary
Im sorry that Ms Cs transaction took place as the market was falling due to coronavirus. I 
acknowledge that this meant that she didnt benefit from the pension tax relief to the extent that she expected. But, based on everything Ive seen, Skipton did nothing wrong. They 
provided correct information. And they followed their normal processes. They didnt treat Ms 
C any differently from any other customers. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
hold them responsible for Ms C ending up with a lower total pension contribution. And I cant 
agree that the fee Skipton charged for the advice they gave was unfair, or unclear. So I wont 
be asking them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman