DRN-1635987
The complaint
Mr B has complained Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund two transactions he didnt authorise.
What happened
Mr B was on a night out with friends in October 2019. The following morning he called Lloyds 
as hed noticed two transactions on his account he didnt recognise. After piecing events 
together he felt someone had got him to use his face ID on his mobile  friends had seen 
him taking selfies with other people at the bar  which had enabled two transactions for £300 
and £500 to be made within a couple of minutes of each other.
Lloyds were sceptical about Mr Bs story. They didnt believe face ID alone had enabled 
these transactions to be made. They rejected his fraud claim despite him not knowing 
anything about the destination account of these payments.
Mr B brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator felt there was no explanation of how Mr Bs Lloyds banking app had been 
accessed without his knowledge. She also thought his password must have been used to set 
up the new payee.
Mr B disagreed with this outcome and has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator. Ive explained why in 
correspondence to Lloyds already. Ill explain further here.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations is the relevant piece of law here. These regulations 
primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments 
themselves. Certain other circumstances can apply but nothing thats had an impact on the 
decision Im making here. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting 
someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Lloyds and Mr B have told us. 
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were made 
were covered in our investigators view of 6 February 2020. I dont intend to repeat 
everything that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the basis 
of my decision. 
Theres no dispute Mr B was out drinking with friends. His story has changed slightly over 
the times hes spoken to both Lloyds and our service. I think this is genuinely because he 
doesnt recall exactly what happened and is more than slightly embarrassed that he was 
drunker than he originally admitted. Mr B even wonders whether his drink was spiked. Its 
possible but it would seem odd that this happened just to Mr B and not to any of the friends 
he went out with.
As I explained to Lloyds it's certainly possible Mr B made the two disputed transactions 
himself. He was in a nightclub (and I can't see any other transactions on this account 
showing any bar spend around this time) and decided somewhere during the evening to set 
up a new payee and send that recipient two payments within two minutes. But it does seem 
odd. If he was in control of his own phone and app I wonder why he didn't just send one 
payment of £800. The fact that Paym  an industry scheme allowing payments to be made 
when a mobile number is registered along with the account details  was attempted first 
suggests this could have been someone making a payment to someone they didnt know 
well and who they only had the mobile number for initially.
Mr B could have realised early on the following morning that he'd done this in a drunken 
haze and contacted Lloyds to say it wasn't him. But again I wonder why hed be so panicked 
if hed made the payments himself.
I find it odd Lloyds suggested the mobile banking login shows Mr B was in the same place at 
22:30 as he was at 05:30 the following morning. He may have been in the same region but I 
don't think he was in the same place  it's not really feasible he remained in the same bar for 
more than seven hours. His testimony is that they went to another bar for another drink and 
then back to his hotel  and whilst that was late, it wasn't massively so after a night out. He 
woke up in his hotel room and that's when he logged into his app. Hed got into the habit of 
logging on as one of the first things he did in a morning.
An alternative scenario is someone else did this  either maliciously or one of his friends for 
a laugh. The information about face recognition and taking selfies in the bar, as highlighted 
in our investigators view, isn't that far-fetched. There's a scenario which explains the phone 
being outside of Mr B's hand. Having supposedly taken photos, an unknown someone could 
have asked whether Mr B minded them sending that photo to themselves which would allow 
them some time alone with his phone to complete the transactions. 
The fact that the mobile banking app completed a forced log-off ten minutes after any 
manual contact suggests this was someone who wasn't interested in tidying up their use. 
I know Lloyds has said a password would have been needed to set up a new payee. But I 
dont believe this is the case if you have fingerprint or face recognition set up as the app will 
default to that mode. Ive seen this tested and work this way.
Lloyds has felt that an unknown fraudster would have taken more money from Mr Bs 
account whilst they had access to it. Perhaps. What is true, when I review cases involving 
unknown third party fraudsters, is I see a multitude of things happening. There is no one 
pattern and in any case, I dont think what happened here was necessarily organised fraud 
but opportunity fraud.Mr B contacted Lloyds as soon as he was aware of the two disputed transactions. Whilst Im 
aware they didnt believe his story this was fraud, I see that one option open to them would 
then have been to treat this as a fat finger complaint. Mr B had said he didnt recognise 
where the money was being paid to and this may have resolved that issue. Lloyds took no 
such action.
Overall taking all the evidence into consideration on balance I believe the second scenario is 
more likely than the first. I therefore dont believe Mr B made or authorised the transactions. 
Putting things right
As I dont believe Mr B made or authorised the two transactions, I will be asking Lloyds to 
refund the money taken from Mr Bs account on 18 October 2019. They will also need to add 
8% simple interest for the period Mr B was without his money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Refund £800 to Mr B for the two transactions he didnt authorise; and
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from 18 October 2019 until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman