DRN-4152837
The complaint
Ms K complains that Epayments Systems Ltd stopped her from accessing her funds held 
with them, and then for applying a conversion fee when returning the funds. Shed like the 
fee refunded.
What happened
The facts of this case arent in dispute, so Ill only briefly mention them here. Ms K held a 
sum of USD in her Epayments accounts. In February 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) stopped Epayments from processing any new transactions. This meant Ms K couldnt 
access her money.
Epayments later identified that Ms K was a vulnerable individual but couldnt release any 
funds to her. In April 2022, they invited her to withdraw her funds, but said she could only do 
so in EUR. She complained that this meant she would incur a 2.6% current conversion fee. 
But Epayments said this was the charge as per the terms of her account. She received her 
funds on 14 July 2022.
Ms K referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it, and 
agreed Epayments had done something wrong. They felt the restrictions placed on the 
account were because of failures by Epayments, and Ms K shouldnt lose out because of 
this. They suggested Epayments pay her 8% simple interest on the balance of the account 
from the date of the block to the date of refund. They also said she should have the 
conversion fee refunded, and to be paid £150 for the inconvenience caused.
This was accepted by Ms K, but Epayments disagreed. They made a counteroffer of 1% of 
Ms Ks account balance and £150 compensation. This was declined by Ms K. 
Epayments still disagreed, saying that their terms allowed them to withhold funds while they 
are required to do so by the FCA and that as an electronic money institution they cannot pay 
interest. They said there was no evidence Ms K could have achieved such interest if shes 
had access to the funds. Lastly, they said that our service should avoid making awards that 
may interfere with the orderly wind down of their business.
As so agreement could be reached the complaint had been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that from February 2020 Epayments were under restrictions placed there by the 
FCA, which meant they werent able to process transactions. The reasons for these 
restrictions have been widely publicised so I wont detail them in full here. But Im satisfied 
that the restrictions were down to failings by Epayments in their anti-money laundering 
controls.
Theres no suggestion here that anything Ms K did led to her account being restricted, so Im 
satisfied that the only reason she couldnt access the funds in her account is down to the 
failings of Epayments. The impact of this is that she couldnt access her funds for a 
considerable time, through no fault of hers. And I dont see this as fair, and its reasonable 
for Epayments to compensate her accordingly.
The investigator suggested adding 8% simple interest to the balance, although Epayments 
have put forward arguments against this. But this interest is not supposed to simply reflect 
lost interest or investment chances  and in any case Ms K has not provided us with any 
specific lost investment opportunities. Instead, shes said she needed the funds for her day-
to-day expenses, such as medical costs.
In this case Ms K has been deprived of these funds for over two years  money that she 
should have had available for her to use as she wanted. Because of the length of time I cant 
say for sure what the specific cost of not having these funds available would be. It will have 
impacted a whole host of decisions about spending and borrowing over that time. To attempt 
to rework or reconsider Ms Ks financial decisions over the period she was without her funds 
would be incredibly arduous, and not within the remit of our service to resolve complaints 
quickly and with the minimum of formality.
With that in mind Im satisfied awarding 8% simple interest on the amount for the period it 
wasnt available to Ms K is appropriate. It is a reflection of the cost of being deprived these 
funds. Its also in line with the statutory interest rate on judgement debts.
In terms of the non-financial impact on Ms K of not having access to his funds, I can 
understand it would be incredibly frustrating to not have access to her funds. Ms K has 
highlighted medical costs, but its always likely she would have had to pay these anyway. 
But Epayments has identified her as a vulnerable individual, and I accept this will have been 
stressful and inconvenient for her. So, Im satisfied compensation is appropriate, and that 
£150 is a fair amount.
Ive considered the currency conversion fee, and overall, Im not persuaded its fair for 
Epayments to charge this. I accept this is in the terms of the account  but Ms K held her 
funds in USD and hasnt asked them to be converted to EUR before being returned. This is a 
restriction Epayments have put in place. So, it isnt fair for Epayments to apply the currency 
conversion fee in this particular case.
Lastly, its not my intention to interfere with Epayments winding down of their business  and 
thats not the role of our service. My role here is ultimately to decide what a fair way to 
resolve individual complaints between businesses and their customers, based on the 
individual facts of the complaint. Based on the facts of Ms Ks case, Im satisfied that it is fair 
for Epayments to redress her as detailed above.
My final decision
My final decision is that Epayments Systems Ltd must:
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the full balance of his account from the date of 
the restriction to the date the funds were returned to Ms K.
Refund any currency conversion fees, or other fees and charges applied during the 
refund process
Pay her £150 compensation
Epayments must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date we tell them Ms K has 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of this decision to the date of settlement, at a rate of 8% simple 
interest per year.
In Epayments is required by HMRC to deduct income tax from any interest award, they 
should tell Ms K how much has been deducted and provide a certificate showing so if she 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman