DRN-3412941
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) voided its tradesmans 
insurance policy because it incorrectly described a past claim when taking out the policy. S 
is represented by one of its directors, Ms P.    
What happened
S had insurance with a different insurer but in November 2019 they said they wouldnt be 
offering renewal terms. Ms P contacted Ss broker who wasnt able to find an insurer from its 
panel who would offer renewal terms either. Following that call Ms P used the brokers online 
portal and obtained a policy with UKI. 
When that policy was approaching renewal the broker contacted UKI to see if it would be 
offering terms and flagged a previous claim S had made. Having reviewed that UKI said 
when S made its online application it described this as a personal accident claim. But that 
wasnt correct; it was a public liability claim. And if it had been correctly described it wouldnt 
have offered cover at all. So it said would be avoiding the policy from the outset. 
It also thought S had acted recklessly. It knew the broker wasnt able to arrange cover and 
thought S altered the information relating to the previous claim when making the online 
application to obtain cover. It said it would be retaining the premiums S paid for the policy. 
Our investigator agreed the information provided about the previous claim was wrong. She 
didnt think S had made a fair presentation of the risk. And having reviewed underwriting 
information she was satisfied UKI wouldnt have offered cover if the previous claim had been 
correctly described. She didnt think UKI had done anything wrong in avoiding the policy. 
But she noted S had declared the claim as part of its online application; the issue was it had 
wrongly said this was a personal accident claim. However, there were no explanatory notes 
about this provided as part of the application process. Nor had there been any discussion of 
how the claim should be categorised when Ms P spoke to Ss broker. And it had been 
referred to by the previous insurer as a personal injury claim. She didnt think this was a 
reckless or deliberate breach. So she said UKI should return the premiums S had paid (plus 
interest on those from the date they were paid until the date they were returned). 
S accepted her view. UKI didnt agree. It said Ms P told the broker about the previous 
employers liability claim and had been advised verbally no quotes were available. In the 
online application she completed soon afterwards the description of the loss was changed to 
personal accident. UKI didnt agree it should return the premiums S had paid. So I need to 
reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this was a commercial contract the law (the Insurance Act 2015) imposes a duty on the 
policyholder to make a fair presentation of risk. That means Ms P (on behalf of S) had to 
disclose everything she knew, or ought to have known that would influence the insurers 
judgment in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms.
In this case when making the online application I can see S was asked Have you made any 
claims (whether insured or not) or has anyone asked you for compensation in the last 5 
years. If that is the case the form asks for further details including selecting from a 
dropdown list to describe the type of incident. That list included the option to select personal 
accident or public liability. 
Ms P provided details of the claim and selected personal accident as the description of it. 
But that wasnt correct. This should have been described as a public liability claim. And I 
think that makes a significant difference to the risk UKI was taking on; I understand it 
automatically accepts personal accident claims because it doesnt provide that cover. So this 
wouldnt increase the risk under its policy whereas it would for public liability. Im satisfied S 
did breach its duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to UKI when taking out this policy.  
The Insurance Act sets out remedies available to an insurer where it can show that, but for 
the breach, it would not have entered into the insurance contract or would have done so but 
on different terms (a qualifying breach). Ive reviewed the information UKI has provided and 
Im satisfied if the claim had been correctly described by S in its application UKI wouldnt 
have offered cover at all. So this was a qualifying breach. 
Where an insurer can show a qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless it can avoid the 
contract and doesnt need to return any of the premiums paid. If the breach wasnt deliberate 
or reckless but the insurer wouldnt have entered into the contract it can avoid the contract 
but must return the premiums paid. 
The Act says a qualifying breach is deliberate or reckless if the insured either knew it was in 
breach of the duty to make a fair presentation of risk or didnt care whether it was in breach 
of that duty. And its for an insurer to show a qualifying breach was deliberate or reckless. 
In this case UKI believes it was (and so hasnt refunded the premiums S paid). It says during 
the call with the broker Ms P advised them of the liability claim and was told by the broker it 
was a no quote. Ms P then went online soon after that call and completed an application in 
which she changed the description of the loss to personal accident. So on that basis it 
thought this was at least reckless. 
If the situation was as described by UKI then its likely Id have agreed with the approach its 
taken here. But having listened to the call between Ms P and the broker I dont think events 
took place as it describes. Ms P called the broker because the previous insurer had declined 
to renew. She highlighted a previous claim which had been settled out of court. The adviser 
asked for more information on this. And having checked with a technical team she confirmed 
that no insurers on their panel would provide a quote. 
But neither she or Ms P described this as a public liability claim at any point in the call. That 
may well be how the adviser recorded the claim but I dont see Ms P would have been aware 
of that. And Ms P has explained she described the claim as a personal accident in the online 
application because she believed this was the correct description of it. I understand the claim 
itself related to an incident where an employee of another company was injured while 
working on Ss premises. And I note a loss adjuster acting for the previous insurer did 
describe this in correspondence with S as a personal injury claim. As Ive already said I agree that description was wrong and S breached the duty to make a 
fair presentation of risk. But I dont agree UKI has shown this was a deliberate or reckless 
act on its part. Mrs P wasnt aware from the call with the broker how the claim had been 
described in the information the broker submitted. Nor was Mrs P told which insurers were 
on the brokers panel (so she wouldnt have known UKI was one of them).So she cant have 
made a conscious decision (as UKI suggested) to provide different information in her online 
application to obtain cover as she didnt know how the previous claim had been described by 
the adviser. 
Putting things right
I appreciate S is unhappy UKI voided its policy. But. as Ive explained, where theres been a 
qualifying breach and, but for that breach, the insurer wouldnt have offered cover it is able to 
do that. However, where the breach wasnt deliberate or reckless it must return the 
premiums paid.
In this case that means UKI can avoid the policy but will need to refund the premiums S 
paid. Our investigator also said it should pay interest at 8% on that amount from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. Ive explained to the parties that I dont agree with that 
because UKI didnt do anything wrong in accepting the premium based on the information S 
provided at that time. But it should have refunded it when it voided the policy. So it will need 
to pay interest at 8% simple on the premium from the date of voidance until the date of 
settlement.  
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. U K Insurance Limited will need to put things 
right by doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman