DRN-3053791
The complaint
Mr H complains that he didnt receive a cashback reward voucher associated with his credit 
card from American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (American Express).
What happened
Mr H had a credit card account with American Express which was part of a reward scheme 
linked to a retailer which Ill call C. Mr H could earn cashback when he used the card and 
each year, on the anniversary of the account opening, he received a voucher (equivalent to 
the cashback amount) which he could spend at C. He usually received the voucher in 
around September.
Mr H says he recalls receiving a letter from American Express in 2019 telling him it was 
withdrawing the reward card linked to C and that his account would be moved to a different 
cashback card. The letter told Mr H when his last voucher for spending at C would be sent to 
him. But he says he mislaid the letter and couldnt recall when it said the voucher would be 
sent. He says that, in January 2020, he checked his account statement which said that 
cashback rewards will be paid in the month following his card anniversary date. So Mr H 
says he expected to receive the voucher in September 2020.
 
But Mr H didnt receive a voucher in September 2020, so he contacted American Express 
around early October 2020. He was told that the voucher had been sent to him at the end of 
January 2020. Mr H hadnt received it, so he asked for a replacement. But American 
Express said the voucher had expired on 6 September 2020 and couldnt be re-issued.
 
Mr H complained to American Express. He thought he was entitled to the full voucher 
amount, which was around £170. He wanted American Express to either send him a voucher 
or credit his account with this amount. American Express didnt uphold the complaint 
because it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Mr H remained unhappy with the situation 
and came to this service. Our investigator didnt think American Express had acted unfairly 
here. But Mr H didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
American Express has provided a copy of the letter which was sent to Mr H in October 2019. 
It said that American Express would not be renewing its partnership with C and that Mr Hs 
account would be automatically transferred to another cashback credit card. It said that his 
last voucher for use at C would be sent to him in February 2020.
Mr H has confirmed that he received this letter. And Im satisfied that American Express sent 
the voucher to him at the end of January 2020. So I find that American Express did what it 
said it was going to do. I dont doubt Mr H when he says he didnt receive the voucher. But, 
as Im satisfied it was sent and that other post from American Express had reached Mr H, I 
cant fairly conclude that its American Express fault Mr H didnt receive the voucher.
Mr H says that American Express hasnt been clear about the situation because the 
information on the statements is inconsistent with the letter of October 2019. His statements 
said that cashback rewards would be paid in the month following his card anniversary date, 
so he says he expected to receive the voucher around September, as in previous years. I 
sympathise with Mr Hs situation, but I dont think American Express communications were 
unclear. 
The 2019 letter said that the relationship with C was coming to an end. It said that Mr Hs 
last voucher would be sent to him in February 2020. Mr H accepts he was told this. I note 
that the letter also stated that the voucher would be valid for a period of six months, although 
in fact in was valid for longer - until 6 September 2020. Unfortunately, Mr H mislaid this letter 
and couldnt remember when it said the voucher would be sent to him. But thats not 
American Express fault. It had given him the correct information.
As to the information on the statements, I dont think that was misleading. When American 
Express partnership with C came to an end, Mr Hs account was automatically moved over 
to another type of cashback credit card. So he was able to continue earning cashback under 
the new scheme. But that wouldnt be converted into vouchers for C, as the relationship 
between American Express and C came to an end at the end of January 2020. So cashback 
earned after that date wouldnt be paid to Mr H in the form of a voucher to spend at C. 
Instead, it would be paid to him by a credit to his account in the month after his card 
anniversary date. So I dont think the information on the statement was incorrect.
I realise Mr H feels strongly about his complaint. But I dont think American Express acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here. Before reaching this decision, I asked American Express 
whether it would be willing to credit Mr Hs account by an amount equivalent to the voucher. 
It said it wasnt in a position to do that. I realise this will be disappointing for Mr H, but I dont 
think American Express did anything wrong here, so I cant fairly direct it to credit his 
account. I dont think American Express acted unfairly, so Im not going to ask it to do 
anything.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman