DRN-3871793
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Cambrian Associates Limited failed to keep his income protection 
insurance policy under review. 
What happened
Mr D had a self-assurance policy which offered him an income protection benefit in the 
event of sickness, accident or disability. In 2020 he claimed on the policy but it was declined. 
He complained the policy was mis-sold in the early 2000s because hed not been sold a 
policy which covered his own occupation. Instead, claims were assessed against Mr Ds 
ability to carry out work tasks. The Financial Ombudsman Service looked into a complaint 
about the mis-sale but decided the complaint had been made too late. 
Mr D raised a further complaint about Cambrian failing to keep the policy under review. 
Cambrian said Mr D had also made this complaint too late. Mr D referred this complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator thought he could consider Cambrians actions since 2016. He looked into 
what had happened. The investigator thought Cambrian had a responsibility to keep the 
market under review to see if other policies were available which were better suited to Mr Ds 
needs. However, he wasnt persuaded that if Cambrian had done so theyd have been able 
to find an own occupation policy for Mr D. So, he didnt think Mr D had lost out as a result. 
Mr D clarified that hed never received a pay-out for the claim under his work tasks policy. 
Ultimately, this didnt change the investigators opinion. He thought if Mr D had been made 
aware an own occupation policy wasnt available it was still unlikely hed have concluded a 
work tasks policy didnt meet his needs.  
Mr D asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He was unhappy with the mis-
understanding that hed received a claim settlement under the work tasks policy. He felt the 
investigators findings were contradictory. In summary, he says he didnt have the level of 
cover he thought he had, and Cambrian had failed in their responsibility to treat him fairly.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not considering the sale of the policy and my decision focuses on the relevant time 
period identified by our investigator. 
Cambrian was giving Mr D advice about his overall finances, including other protection 
policies. Mr D was paying for that service. In line with the relevant rules and industry 
guidelines I think Cambrian had an ongoing responsibility to ensure the policy was right for 
Mr D and that it continued to meet his demands and needs. They also needed to ensure that 
they gave him clear, fair and non-misleading information. In the circumstances of this case I 
think it means they therefore needed to also keep the market under review.
I dont think Cambrian did enough to ensure the policy was right for Mr D. But I dont think 
they need to do anything to put things right. I say that because: 
Mr D had regular reviews of his financial products with Cambrian during the policy 
lifetime. The reviews typically took place each year and I think it is reasonable to 
conclude these reviews ought to have included Mr Ds income protection policy to 
ensure it still met his needs. 
The evidence Ive seen suggests that the income protection policy wasnt the focus of 
the reviews and theres no persuasive evidence this was regularly reviewed or 
revisited in detail to ensure the policy was still right for Mr D. So, I dont think 
Cambrian did meet their responsibilities to Mr D. 
It doesnt automatically follow that Cambrian needs to do something to put things 
right as I also need to be satisfied Mr D would have acted differently. Based on the 
available evidence Im not persuaded thats the case. Ive thought about what Mr D is 
most likely to have done if Cambrian had regularly reviewed his policy and I dont 
think hed have acted differently.
Cambrian say Mr D held an occupation which would be considered to carry a higher 
risk. Theyve explained this was why it wasnt possible to arrange an own occupation 
policy for Mr D when he first took out the policy. I think thats a reasonable conclusion 
to reach based on the evidence thats available to me about Mr Ds occupation. 
I havent seen persuasive or compelling evidence it would have been possible for 
Mr D to change to an own occupation policy when Cambrian were conducting their 
reviews. Im satisfied theyve taken reasonable steps to establish what policies would 
have been available to Mr D during the relevant time. Theyve also highlighted the 
high level of risk attached to Mr Ds occupation. And theyve re-iterated that providers 
are reluctant to offer own occupation policies to individuals in higher risk 
occupations. So, although its possible Mr D might have been able to source an own 
occupation policy, I dont think its most likely that would have been the case. 
Ive considered whether Mr D would have cancelled the policy and chosen to retain 
the premiums. I think thats unlikely based on the evidence thats available to me. I 
think Mr D was keen to protect his income and assets in a range of different ways. 
Thats reflected in the range of cover he obtained. I bear in mind the nature of Mr Ds 
occupation and that the work tasks policy still offered Mr D the benefit of cover. So, I 
dont think the policy was inherently unsuitable for him. It offered a different type of 
cover to the own occupation policy but I still think it was of benefit to him. All of this 
persuades me hes more likely to have opted to have some cover from the work 
tasks policy, rather than save the money on the premiums. 
Ive also taken into account that Mr D had various protection policies, including 
critical illness cover and mortgage protection policies. But they dont offer the same 
type of cover as an income protection policy. So, I dont think having these types of 
additional cover meant a work tasks policy was inherently unsuitable for Mr D. I 
think its reasonable to conclude the policy still offered him a level and type of cover 
the other policies didnt. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman