DRN-2425133
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A are Holiday Owners of a timeshare at a resort in Spain. During the year 2000, 
they paid their resort €31,800 for two weeks accommodation each year, for a number of 
years. On top of this, they pay the resort an annual maintenance fee.   In December 2019, 
they paid the annual maintenance fee of £1966.89 for the following year. They booked to 
stay at their timeshare resort from 12 until 26 June 2020.
Due to travel restrictions in place as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic; Mr and Mrs A 
werent able to travel as theyd planned. So they cancelled their trip. Mr and Mrs A were able 
to get back the air miles theyd used to pay for their flight from their airline. So they made a 
claim for the annual maintenance fee theyd paid their resort.
AXA turned the claim down. It said the policy didnt cover timeshare costs. It also said that 
the policy only covered unforeseen costs. But the annual maintenance fee is an annual 
charge, which has to be paid regardless of whether or not the timeshare property has been 
used.
Mr and Mrs A were unhappy with AXAs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs As complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the 
annual maintenance fee could fairly be considered to be an accommodation cost. And he 
didnt think the maintenance fee was an unforeseen loss  as Mr and Mrs A wouldve always 
needed to pay it, whether they visited the timeshare resort or not. So he didnt think AXA 
needed to settle Mr and Mrs As claim.
Mr and Mrs A disagreed. They said they have a contract with AXA and both parties have to 
live with the terms of it, whether AXA wishes to or not. They felt that while AXA argues that 
timeshares are excluded from cover, if it didnt properly explain this, then it cant rely on its 
terms to turn down claims. They maintained that the policy term excluding holidays paid for 
by timeshare points didnt apply to their claim, because there was no loss of timeshare 
points.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXA has treated Mr and Mrs A fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the terms of Mr 
and Mrs As policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether AXA acted fairly.
Mr and Mrs As policy includes cover for the costs of cancelled holidays. The policy says:
We will pay for the unused portion of travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid 
charges of the overseas journey (purchased prior to the insured members departure date) 
which the insured member is legally obliged to pay and which cannot be recovered from any 
other source, if the insured member has to cancel or curtail the overseas journey necessarily 
and unavoidably as a result of the following events:
-new Foreign and Commonwealth Office guidance which advises against travel to the 
specific country or area that the insured member is booked to travel. By new advice 
we mean that the advice must have been introduced following the booking of the 
overseas journey and after the purchase date of this travel policy.
Mr and Mrs A had booked to stay at their timeshare resort between 12 and 26 June 2020. 
The Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) had advised against all but essential travel 
abroad on 17 March 2020, as a result of the Covid-10 pandemic. This advice remained in 
place until 4 July 2020. And Spain remained in a state of emergency until 21 June 2020. So I 
accept that Mr and Mrs A had no choice but to cancel their trip as a result of the FCO 
guidance in place on their intended date of departure.
They feel the terms of their contract with AXA means that its liable to pay their claim. Ive 
thought about this carefully. The cancellation section of the policy covers unused 
accommodation, travel and other pre-paid charges of the overseas journey. This means 
AXAs liability under this section of the policy is limited to these costs.
Mr and Mrs A have told us that their airline refunded their airmiles. So theyre not claiming 
any travel costs. Theyve also told us that they paid their actual accommodation costs as a 
lump sum, back in 2000. So Im satisfied theyre not claiming for accommodation costs. 
Theyve confirmed theyre looking to claim for the separate annual maintenance fee they 
paid in December 2019, which theyve said covers cleaning of the timeshare apartment; 
gardening; site security; building maintenance etc. 
It seems to me that the annual maintenance fee isnt specifically part of the pre-paid trip 
costs  its the annual amount Mr and Mrs A are contracted to pay their timeshare resort 
each year, even if they dont make use of the timeshare property. And given what theyve 
told us the fee is used for, it seems the money wouldve been used for cleaning; 
maintenance; security etc. regardless of whether they travelled or not. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for AXA to conclude this fee wasnt covered.
The policy excludes cancellation costs which have been paid by timeshare points. Mr and 
Mrs A say this doesnt apply to their situation. It does appear that their maintenance fee was 
paid by credit card, rather than by points. So I dont think in this case, the exclusion has 
been correctly applied. But as I think it was reasonable for AXA to decide the annual 
maintenance fee wasnt covered, I dont think I need to look further into this point.Ive also considered whether Mr and Mrs A did lose the chance to use their timeshare 
property at all last year. AXA says Mr A told it that he was able to re-book the trip for another 
time during last year, so long as it wasnt during school holidays. So it says Mr and Mrs A 
hadnt suffered a financial loss, as they wouldve been in a position to rebook their trip once 
travel restrictions were lifted. It said if it reimbursed Mr and Mrs A for the fee, its possible 
theyd still have been able to go to the timeshare property at a later date and would therefore 
have been financially better off. It isnt clear whether or not Mr and Mrs A were in a position 
to rebook their trip later in 2020, but it does seem, based on what theyve said, that the 
booking arrangements for Mr and Mrs As timeshare agreement were broadly flexible. So I 
dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for AXA to draw this conclusion.
Overall, in these specific circumstances, I think it was fair for AXA to turn down Mr and Mrs 
As claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman