DRN-4331954
The complaint
Mrs S complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) failed to obtain CCTV footage
following a claim she made under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2022 Mrs S says a third-party collided with her parked car and drove away. She
arranged for the necessary repairs and contacted esure to make a claim. She says she told
esure there was a camera on the street that may have footage of the incident.
Mrs S says esure didnt take reasonable steps to contact the local council to obtain any
relevant CCTV footage. She says she also provided esure with details of a witness to the
incident. Mrs S doesnt think it did enough to investigate the matter and is concerned that her
insurance premiums will be affected.
esure says it contacted the local council, but it explained it wasnt responsible for the CCTV
camera and told it to contact the police. It says it did this and was told to complete a form
and pay a fee, which it did. However, it didnt receive a copy of any CCTV footage of the
incident.
Mrs S received an email from esure following a phone call she had with its agent. This email
says she accepted the complaint outcome discussed during the call. Mrs S says this isnt
true. Her complaint wasnt resolved, and she wrote back to esure to let it know. As she
remained unhappy with esures response to her complaint Mrs S referred the matter to our
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. She says the records shows it contacted
the local council and police to request the CCTV footage without success. Without knowing
the identity of the third-party driver, she says esure cant reasonably investigate the matter
further.
Mrs S didnt think this outcome was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider the
matter.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mrs Ss 
complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My intention is to uphold this complaint. Let me explain.
From the records provided Mrs S contacted esure a week after the collision happened. She
told it that CCTV footage was available, and it should contact the police to get hold of this. I
can see that esures records indicate images were available from the incident and there was
also a witness.
On 2 November 2022 a call record shows Mrs S asked esure if it had contacted the police
for the CCTV footage. Details for the witness were added to its claim file at this time. I can
see an email was sent to Mrs S the next day asking if she has details of a witness, CCTV or
if the police attended the scene.
A week later a complaint was raised by Mrs S. The notes refer to a delay on esures part
referring the claim to its Recoveries Team. esures records say it shouldve called Mrs S on
day one of the claim to find out more information about the CCTV camera. It says this is
because most footage is only retained for between 21 and 28 days. A call was then made to
Mrs S and she provided a phone number for the local council CCTV room.
I can see esure contacted the council on 10 November 2022. The records say the council
didnt own or cover the camera on the street in question. And that esure was advised to
contact the police. esures agent then contacted the police via email. Mrs S was also sent an
email on this date explaining the contact made with the council and with the police. esure
asked if Mrs S had heard from the police about whether it had traced the third-party vehicle.
esure sent a cheque to Mrs S to cover the cost of the repairs. It says this hasnt been
cashed, which means the claim has been closed as notification only. esure says this will be
updated if Mrs S should cash the cheque or request a replacement.
A record dated 5 December 2022 shows the police contacted esure to ask it to pay a fee for
the CCTV footage. esure wasnt able to provide a card payment, and the police didnt accept
payment by cheque. The records end in February 2023 without confirming if the payment
issue had been resolved. So, I asked esure to clarify.
In its response esure sent a letter it received from the police. This is dated 17 January 2023.
It explains the reason why it will no longer accept cheque payments. And says although this
may cause some organisations challenges in the short run, its confident these can be
overcome. esure says Mrs Ss claim has now been closed.
esure says that because Mrs S didnt report the claim for a week after the incident occurred,
this meant it had less time to obtain the CCTV footage. It says it didnt hear back from the
witness and it still isnt clear if there is or was relevant footage of the incident available.
Ive thought carefully about the evidence and testimony provided by both parties. I think Mrs
S made it clear when first contacting esure that there was a CCTV camera that may have
recorded footage of the incident. esure didnt do anything about this for three weeks.
I acknowledge esures point that Mrs S delayed reporting the claim by a week. But from its
own records, its agents say this should have been followed up immediately. I think this is a
fair point. Its not clear if usable footage of the incident exists, But Id expect esure to have
acted quickly to try and secure any evidence pertinent to Mrs Ss claim. I dont think it did in
this case.
The delays in esure requesting the CCTV footage and making payment may have limited the
chances of identifying the third-party driver. But as I understand it there is still a chance that
the police have video footage of the incident. The reason this isnt yet known is because
esure hasnt provided a payment by credit or debit card.
I understand esure prefers to pay by cheque. But this cant reasonably mean its impossiblefor it to pay by another method. I cant see that esure made any further attempt to make
payment after the police wrote to it in January 2023. I dont think its reasonable to close Mrs
Ss claim without following this up.
I think its fair that esure pays the police its fee to establish if the third-party driver can be
identified from any CCTV footage. It should write to Mrs S to confirm the outcome of its
further enquiries and the impact on her claim. If she isnt satisfied with its response, she can
complain to the business. She also has the option to refer the matter to our service if she
remains unhappy.
Ive thought about the impact all of this has had on Mrs S. It shouldnt have been left for her
to chase progress in obtaining the CCTV footage. This has caused significant delays in
dealing with the claim correctly. This has been a source of frustration and distress for Mrs S
as well as causing her inconvenience. Given the poor standard of claim handling with
respect to the CCTV issue, I think esure should pay Mrs S £250 compensation.
I said I was intending to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. I said esure should pay the police 
administration fee to request any CCTV footage that exists of the claim incident and write to 
Mrs S to inform her of the outcome this has on her claim. And that it should pay Mrs S £250 
compensation for the frustration, distress, and inconvenience it caused her.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
esure responded to say it was physically unable to pay the police administration fee. It says 
individual departments dont have a credit or debit card. It says it hasnt withheld payment or 
refused to pay the police administration charge. But it says it cannot make a payment in the 
way requested. 
Mrs S provided information to support her argument that esure hadnt done enough to obtain 
CCTV footage of the incident that resulted in her claim. She says she has to use her car for 
work purposes and says her employer wont allow more than two fault claims. Mrs S says 
she hasnt made a claim since passing her test over forty years ago. She doesnt think esure 
treated her fairly in its handling of her claim. Particularly in its failure to obtain CCTV footage.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive not seen reason to change my findings. 
I responded to esures comments to say that based on what it said itll be unable to obtain 
CCTV footage held by the police (in this region) for any accidents involving any of its 
policyholders. This is because it cant pay the administration fee by credit or debit card. I 
said that I didnt think this was reasonable or that a solution couldnt be found. esure didnt 
respond to my comments and it didnt provide any further information.
I dont think esures argument for not paying the police administration fee is reasonable. So, 
this doesnt warrant a change to my findings. 
Ive read Mrs Ss comments, and the further information shes sent. But this doesnt add 
anything of significance to the information Ive already considered in my provisional decision. 
I agree that esure didnt do enough to try and obtain any CCTV footage the police might 
have. This is why I said it should pay the administration fee and inform Mrs S of the impact any video footage it obtains has on her claim. 
Given the frustration, distress, and inconvenience esure has caused Mrs S, I think its fair to 
pay her £250 compensation. But Ive not seen anything that persuades me to alter my 
provisional decision.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. esure Insurance Limited should:
pay the police administration fee to request any CCTV footage that exists of the claim
incident and write to Mrs S to inform her of the outcome this has on her claim; and
pay Mrs S £250 compensation for the frustration, distress, and inconvenience it
caused her
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman