DRN-4038166
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr K complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op) failed to refund
monies they lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
What Mr K says
Mr K was the complainant involved with the scammers, so Ill mainly refer to him throughout
this decision or his representatives where appropriate.
Mr K was looking for investment opportunities and was interested in cryptocurrency crypto.
He carried out some searches online and found a crypto broker who Ill refer to as J. He said
that J were one of the top two brokers he found through a popular search engine, and this
gave him confidence that they were a legitimate financial company.
Mr K made enquiries and was later contacted by a representative of J. It was explained to Mr
K that he could purchase crypto, and J would then invest it for him on his behalf. He wasnt
promised any particular return on his investment.
Mr K made an initial purchase of crypto for £500 using a credit card held with The Co-op on
the same day he was contacted by J. He spoke to The Co-op about the payment because it
was flagged on their system, and it was later released. This payment was made to a
separate crypto merchant than all other crypto purchases referred to later. Mr K and J
continued to discuss his investments and it was explained that the more he invested, the
greater his returns. Mr K was asked to verify his identity and was then given access to a
trading account which showed how his investments were performing.
Mr K was asked to download a software package that allowed J to take control of his
computer. It was explained that the process for investing was complicated, and the software
package allowed J to assist Mr K where necessary.
Mr K was told to open an account with a legitimate crypto merchant Ill refer to as P. The
investment process required Mr K to transfer funds from his Co-op joint account to P and
then they would be exchanged to crypto funds and placed into Mr Ks wallet. From there
the funds were transferred to Js wallet and invested on Mr Ks behalf.
Mr K made the following payments from his and Mrs Ks joint account, including the initial
credit card payment:
Date Amount
4/12/2020 £500 (credit card)
16/12/2020 £1000
31/12/2020 £8,500
22/01/2021 £9,999
22/01/2021 £10,000
09/02/2021 £16,000
09/02/2021 £16,000
Total £61,999
Mr K explained that he didnt receive any payments from J throughout the period he was
investing, but his online trading account showed substantial increases in his funds. In early
February 2021, after investing about £30,000, Mr K wanted to take some of his profit from
the investment which he was advised was now in excess of £100,000.
Mr K was told he would have to pay tax on his investment of £16,000 and he made a
transfer from his joint account held with Mrs K to P for onward payment via crypto funds to J.
Mr K was then told there had been a change in legislation and he would have to pay a
further £16,000 to release his funds. At the time, Mr K didnt have enough funds, so he was
persuaded by J to obtain a loan which J organised via the software installed on Mr Ks
computer. A loan company agreed to lend Mr K £16,000 which was then paid to J via the
usual route.
Mr K then experienced difficulties obtaining funds and was continually met with various
excuses about the repayment of his investment. He realised he might have been scammed
and sought advice. Contact was made with The Co-op about the loss and a complaint was
eventually lodged after The Co-op declined to refund him.
What The Co-op said
Once The Co-op received notice that Mr K had lost money, they looked into the situation and
declined to refund him. The Co-op didnt think theyd made an error and told Mr K they
couldnt deal with his loss because it wasnt caused by the transfers to P. They explained the
loss occurred after the money had been deposited with P and then moved to Js wallet.
There were no funds remaining for The Co-op to retrieve.
The investigation so far
Mr K brought this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review
where it was looked into by one of our investigators. Both parties submitted information
about the situation. Mr K, via his representatives said:
Hed contacted J himself after a web search.
Contact was carried out via phone calls, email and texts.
Research into J didnt show any negative information prior to committing funds to 
them.
He was told the 2 x £16,000 payments were for his UK tax bill.
The Co-op provided information concerning their involvement. The Co-op said:
The loss to Mr K wasnt caused until the payment was already made to P, so they
believed there was no bank error on their part.Mr K was spoken to about crypto investing when he used his credit card at the start
of the scam. The notes of the call are summarised as:
Mr K confirmed he was trying to buy Bitcoin.
He was certain it wasnt a scam.
Mr K hadnt been approached or cold called for the investment.
Mr K advised hed checked the FCA Scam Smart website.
The Co-op call handler read out their scam script to Mr K.
Mr K was told if anything goes wrong then hed be unlikely to get his funds
back.
After considering the evidence, the investigator didnt think that The Co-op should make a
refund to Mr K because:
Earlier payments made from the account werent suspicious based on the previous
account behaviour, but the £10,000 payment on 22 January 2021 should have
flagged and The Co-op should have intervened.
Based on the earlier conversation with Mr K, the investigator didnt think another
conversation would have made a difference (if there had been one).
The investigator believed Mr K would have gone on to make further payments
because he believed J were a legitimate investment company.
Mr Ks representatives disagreed and thought that The Co-op had multiple opportunities to
intervene, and they confirmed that Mr K had checked the websites The Co-op had told him
about and couldnt find anything about J.
The investigator didnt change their opinion, believing that Mr K would have gone on to make
the transactions, even if The Co-op had intervened again.
Mr K asked for a further review of his complaint, so its been passed to me for a decision.
Additional points were made for me to consider by Mr Ks representative:
The payments were unusual and intervention by The Co-op would have made a
difference.
The Banking Protocol should have been implemented.
I asked for clarification regarding some of the facts and Mr Ks representative responded as
follows:
Mr K was unaware of negative reviews about J prior to making payment to them.
Mr K believed the company was governed abroad and that cryptocurrency was a
global venture. He didnt notice any details about the UK addresses mentioned in the
correspondence with him.
The request to load software onto his computer (allowing J to take control of it)
wasnt unusual and legitimate companies do this in workplaces and for technical
support.
Mr K was never given any unrealistic promises about his investment.
Mr K provided personal details for the loan application, and J used the software on
his computer to make the application.
Mr K thought the request to pay tax on his investment wasnt unusual.
He wasnt pressured to make investments by J. Mr K described how he was 
encouraged to invest more to obtain greater returns.I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint on 13 February 
2023. In my provisional findings, I explained why I intended to uphold (in part) their complaint 
and offered both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. 
An extract of that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice (including those referred to by Mr Ks representatives in submissions to
this Service); and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at
the time.
I was sorry to hear that Mrs and Mr K were scammed out of their funds. Its accepted that Mr
K authorised the scam payments from their joint account at The Co-op. So, although he
didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations
2017 and the terms and conditions of their account, they are presumed liable for their loss in
the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account, where a valid payment
instruction has been received; The Co-ops obligation is to follow the payment instruction.
However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for a bank to take additional
steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its
customer from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. An example of this would be if a
payment instruction is sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic considering the usual use of
the account. In such circumstances Id expect The Co-op to intervene and ask more
questions about the intended transaction before processing it. Id also expect The Co-op to
provide suitable warnings about common scams to help its customers make an informed
decision about whether they want to continue with the payment.
Thats the case even though Mr K was sending funds to an account in his own name. By
January 2019, banks like The Co-op had, or ought to have had, a good enough
understanding of how crypto scams work  including that a customer often moves money to
an account in their own name before moving it on again to the scammer - to have been able
to identify the risk of harm from fraud.
Should The Co-op have intervened with the payments to P from the joint account?
Ive examined Mrs and Mr Ks account to understand how it normally operated. Large
payments from it arent the norm, although theres a payment for a vehicle for about £9,000
a few months before the first scam payment. Other than that, the account operates without
moving large sums of money out of it.
I wouldnt expect The Co-op to recognise the first payment from the account which was for
£1,000, but I do think that the £8,500 payment on 31 December 2020 to P was unusual. Up
until that point, Mr K had made a small credit card payment of £500 which hed been spoken
to about and appears to have been made to a different company. He then made the £1,000
payment less than two weeks later, but this was to a new payee (P), after hed set up an
account with them.
A few weeks later the £8,500 transaction was made which was a substantial increase from
the previous payment. At that point, Mr K had made two payments to a new payee, one of
which was one of the highest payments made from the account recently (apart from the carpayment). I do think The Co-op should have intervened at this point and Id expect them to
conduct an appropriate conversation with Mr K considering the increasing amounts he was
appearing to send.
Its reasonable to expect The Co-op to tailor their responses, so I wouldnt expect the same
conversation for the £500 payment when compared to the risks associated with the £8,500
payment. Its also relevant that at the point Mr K made this £8,500 payment, the
arrangements with J were fully formed, providing additional detail for The Co-op to assess (if
theyd contacted Mr K).
Theres been an argument made that The Co-ops intervention wouldnt have made a
difference, but the circumstances where quite different from his initial credit card payment,
so I dont accept they couldnt have done more.
Mr K hasnt said he was told to lie or given a cover story, so its reasonable to assume he
would have told the truth if hed been asked about what he was doing. I think, if appropriate
questions had been asked, it would have been apparent that Mrs and Mr K were at risk
because Mr K would likely have revealed that:
The account with P was opened by Mr K on the instruction of J.
Multiple payments were being made to P of increasing value.
Software had been downloaded to Mr Ks computer to allow J to take control of it.
Funds were being sent from Mr Ks wallet to Js.
Mr K had access to a trading platform which showed that his investment was
generating huge profits.
No returns had been received from these ever-increasing profits.
There was a lack of agreements setting out the arrangements, which would be
expected with a legitimate broker.
I think it likely that The Co-op would have concluded Mrs and Mr Ks funds were at risk
because the picture here was one of a common crypto investment scam operating at the
time. Armed with this information, I think Mr K would have looked into his relationship with J
in far more detail than he previously had. Once the very real possibility of being scammed
had been introduced by The Co-op, I dont think he would have continued with the
arrangement.
I think that The Co-op had an opportunity to prevent these payments from 31 December
2020 onwards and protect Mrs and Mr Ks funds. My current thinking is that The Co-op
should make a refund, but I also need to consider if the bank should bear the whole loss or
just part of it.
Should Mrs and Mr K bear some responsibility for their losses?
Ive thought carefully about this, and I accept that Mr K was an inexperienced investor,
particularly in relation to crypto investing. Its apparent that the scammers were convincing
and provided an investment account for Mr K to view, through which he could see that his
investment was performing well. Mr K had checked the Scam Smart website and hadnt
found anything about J.
Mr K continued to invest and then made the tax payment. Hes explained that he didnt
think it unusual because tax is paid on investments. I wouldnt expect Mr K to understand in
detail how tax is collected on such investments, especially given that Mr K believed he was
investing with an overseas company and international tax rules can be complicated. But, I
would question why he made the same payment again, even going to the degree of allowingJ to apply for a loan in his name using the software on his computer. I think that this ought to
have rung alarm bells with Mr K. Its not clear what reasons were given to the loan company
for the money, but I have some doubt it was to pay tax on a crypto investment.
I think here that Mr K was completely taken in by J, and its clear he and his wife were the
victims, but I think at the point he was asked to pay the tax again, he should have
questioned the arrangement. I dont think its reasonable to accept that a second identical
payment was required and to then allow others to make an application to a loan company on
his behalf.
I currently think that Mrs and Mr K should bear equal responsibility with The Co-op for the
loss of the final £16,000 payment.
Retrieval of the funds
Banks are required to try and retrieve funds that have been lost as the result of scams, but
here, they were no longer accessible because theyd been exchanged into crypto and
transferred to the scammers wallet. I dont think that The Co-op had any real chance of
retrieving the funds for Mrs and Mr K.
Summary
Overall, I think that The Co-op should have intervened here, but I do acknowledge that it was
the scammers who engineered the theft of Mrs K and Mr Ks funds in a sophisticated scam.
There were opportunities to prevent the losses, although Mr K should bear some of the final
payment because it wasnt reasonable to accept the reasons given to him at the time.
My provisional decision
Im currently minded to uphold this complaint, in part, and recommend that The Co-op refund
all of the funds sent to P from the £8,500 payment onwards, apart from the final £16,000
which both parties should share equally (50%) between them. In total, Im intending to
recommend that The Co-op refund Mr K £52,499.00 plus relevant interest.
Ive thought about the rate of interest that should be applied here and its apparent that there
are different sources for the investment that probably attracted different rates of interest. Mr
Ks actions show that he was intending to invest his and Mrs Ks funds and theyve lost an
opportunity to use that money on other, legitimate investments. So, Im currently thinking
about recommending the interest be paid at 8% simple interest a year on the loss from the
date of the payments until the date its repaid. Ill consider any submissions by either party
regarding this or any other aspect of the complaint before I make my final decision.
I invited Mrs K and Mr K and The Co-op to give me any more evidence and information they 
wanted me to consider before issuing my final decision. The Co-op asked for an extension 
which was provided but havent submitted anything in response to the later deadline. Mrs K 
and Mr K, via their representatives accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to reach adifferent conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision.
Putting things right
The Co-op should now refund all of the funds sent to P from the £8,500 payment onwards, 
apart from the final £16,000 which both parties should share equally (50%) between them. In 
total, thats a refund by The Co-op of £52,499.00 to Mrs K and Mr K, plus interest at 8% 
simple per annum from the date of the payments until the date its repaid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint (in part) and instruct The Co-operative Bank 
Plc to settle the complaint as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman