DRN-4128652
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc blocked his account and refused to allow him to 
transfer his money.
What happened
Mr M says Santander blocked his account after he refused to provide confidential 
information about his finances. He says it required property deeds, shareholdings and other 
information. Mr M says he asked Santander to close his account which it refused initially to 
do and so he was prevented from accessing his money. He would like £250 compensation 
and says he was caused distress as a result of what took place.
Santander says it hasnt made a mistake and asked Mr M for information as part of its 
regulatory duties. It says it wrote to Mr M on 4 October 2022 telling him it would close his 
account unless information was provided. Santander says it did allow Mr M to transfer his 
money to a different business on 4 November 2022 when it became aware of Mr Ms 
request.
Mr M brought his complaint to us, and our investigator didnt think Santander had acted 
unfairly or made a mistake. The investigator thought Santander was entitled in line with 
account terms and conditions to block the account and wasnt required to lift the block to 
allow the transfer, although it did.
Mr M doesnt accept that view.
I asked Santander for further information about this complaint, and it accepts Mr M did 
answer all of its questions but didnt provide required documents. It says its investigation 
team was unaware of Mr Ms request to close his account but when made aware, removed 
the block.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that I intended to uphold this 
complaint in part.
I said I was sure Mr M appreciates that banks and building societies have regulatory duties 
which they must comply with. I accepted that on occasions those duties can become 
onerous for customers such as here in dealing with questions about events going back some 
time. But I explained that we are not Santanders regulator and its not our role to decide how 
it complies with its regulatory duties. So, I didnt think Santander made a mistake or acted 
unfairly by asking Mr M the questions it did in September 2022 about his personal finances. 
I listened to the telephone call between the parties in September 2022 and was satisfied Mr 
M provided answers to all of the questions asked by Santander. I didnt think Santander 
provided the telephone call from 3 October 2022, but I thought at that stage it wanted actual 
documents from Mr M that he didnt wish to provide such as property deeds. I thought it 
likely that Mr M had bought his property some significant time ago and it may have been the 
case it was owned with a third party, so I said I understand Mr Ms reluctance to provide it.
I was satisfied that from October 2022 the relationship between Mr M and Santander had 
broken down and reached an impasse. I could see Santander wrote to Mr M on 4 October 
2022 telling him the account had been blocked and that it would be closed unless the 
required information was provided. I didnt think Santander made a mistake by doing so.
I said the key issue here is that Mr M wanted to move his money to a different business, but 
Santander told him that wasnt possible unless he provided the required information. I 
appreciated Mr Ms point which was, he was told the account would close which is what he 
wanted to happen in any event. I listened carefully to the call between the parties on 24 
October 2022 and was satisfied Mr M was told the block could not be removed and he could 
not transfer his money unless required documents were provided. I was also satisfied that 
during the call Mr M repeatedly made the point that he was told the account would close and 
he wanted that to happen as soon as possible so he could access his money.
I appreciated Santander said when its investigation team became aware of Mr Ms request to 
transfer his account on 4 November 2022 it approved the request and removed the block. 
But I was satisfied Santander knew that is what Mr M wanted in October 2022 as he told it 
on numerous occasions. I couldnt see why Mr M had to wait until November 2022 to access 
his own money and couldnt see why Santander gave him what must have been incorrect 
information, that the block couldnt be removed to allow the transfer of his money. I said 
incorrect information as Santander did allow the transfer which is what Mr M made clear he 
wanted. I looked carefully at the account terms and conditions and couldnt see any 
reference to this specific issue about the ability to close an account in these circumstances 
or Santanders ability to refuse a request to do so and refuse to transfer money.
I thought Mr M was caused distress and inconvenience in making a number of calls to 
Santander and having listened in particular to the October 2022 call, was satisfied that Mr M 
was upset due to the impasse. I couldnt see any evidence Mr M was caused any financial 
loss. 
Overall, my provisional view was that this process could have been handled more 
appropriately by Santander having made clear this was Mr Ms money. But also considering 
Santanders regulatory duties. I thought it should pay Mr M £150 compensation which I 
thought was fair and reasonable and fairly took into account the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused. Santander said its normal process is to block and then close an 
account which is what Mr M wanted to happen. I didnt think that process needed to wait or 
be delayed in these circumstances when it clear the relationship between the parties had 
broken down.
Both Mr M and Santander agree with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Santander should pay Mr M £150 compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Santander UK Plc to pay Mr 
M £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman