DRN-3663063
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC wouldnt allow them to port their 
mortgage and wouldnt refund the early repayment charge (ERC) they paid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D had a mortgage with Barclays. On 23 October 2020, they sold their property 
and repaid the mortgage. As they were still in a fixed rate period, they paid an ERC. Their 
ERC was due to expire on 31 January 2021.
Mr and Mrs D said that they did this on the understanding that provided they completed a 
new mortgage with Barclays within 90 days, they would be able to port their interest rate 
across to the new mortgage and have the ERC refunded  in part, since they were intending 
to borrow less on the new mortgage than the old. The 90 day period would expire on 
21 January 2021.
At the end of November 2020, Mr and Mrs D submitted an application for a new mortgage 
through a broker. Their broker sent the application and supporting documents through 
Barclays online portal.
Mr and Mrs D say that a valuation was then booked for 16 December, but didnt go ahead 
because Barclays needed a signed declaration  which they say had already been 
submitted.
Mr and Mrs D then decided to increase the amount they were applying for, so their broker 
tried to amend the application. They say there was a series of technical problems with the 
online portal, and the application was re-submitted on 5 January 2021 once these were 
resolved. Their broker then chased Barclays for a decision as the 90 day window would end 
soon. They say Barclays required Mr and Mrs Ds identity documents to be re-submitted  
even though they had provided them with the earlier application, and even though they were 
existing customers.
On 20 January 2021, the application had still not been decided. Mr and Mrs Ds broker 
asked Barclays to extend the 90 day porting window, but it would not agree to do so. 
On 26 January 2021, Barclays issued a mortgage offer. The offer was not for the interest 
rate Mr and Mrs D wanted to port, but for a new rate with an £899 product fee. Barclays did 
not refund the ERC.
Mr and Mrs D complained. They said they were unable to complete within 90 days because 
of Barclays errors and it wasnt fair it wouldnt extend the window. They said that when they 
realised they wouldnt get the ERC back, they went to another lender which processed their 
application within 10 days  showing that the time Barclays took was unreasonable. They 
want Barclays to refund the ERC they paid.
Barclays accepted that it was responsible for some delay. But it said Mr and Mrs D didnt 
start the application process until a significant part of the window had already passed. It said 
that had they applied earlier, its likely they would have been able to complete on time. 
Barclays also said that while there were technical issues, there were also inaccuracies in the 
application their broker submitted, which took time to clarify. And Mr and Mrs D changed the 
amount they wanted to borrow, which caused further delay.
Barclays therefore didnt agree to refund the ERC. But it offered them £400 compensation 
for the upset its delays caused. Our investigator thought it should also refund the ERC, so 
Barclays asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I took a different view of the complaint and issued a provisional decision to allow the parties 
to comment on my thinking before I make a final decision. I said:
Its not in dispute here that there were technical issues, and errors, with how the application 
was processed through Barclays portal, which meant that Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage 
application took longer than it should. What I have to decide is what Barclays needs to do to 
put things right  including whether it needs to refund the ERC Mr and Mrs D paid. 
I understand Mr and Mrs D were not buying a property on the open market  they were 
buying it from a relative. They say this means that all the required paperwork was in place, 
and that their solicitors were ready to go  and it was only Barclays that caused the delays. 
But if thats the case, its not clear to me why Mr and Mrs D did not submit their mortgage 
application sooner. They clearly understood they had 90 days  and not 90 days to get a 
new mortgage offer, but 90 days to complete. But they did not submit a mortgage application 
until the end of November, and then amended the application to increase the borrowing on 
23 December 2021.
This means that Mr and Mrs D did not finalise their mortgage application until 23 December 
2021  with less than a month of the porting window left, and just before the Christmas 
break. At this stage, the broker was having difficulties processing the application and asked 
Barclays for support. Barclays provided technical advice on 23 December, but the broker did 
not follow up until 31 December and the application was finally correctly submitted on 
4 January.
Ive looked at what happened once Mr and Mrs D finally decided on the mortgage they 
wanted, on 23 December. And Im satisfied that it was processed within a reasonable 
timescale from then on. There was a gap between 23 December and 4 January, but that 
appears to relate to the broker not following up on instructions sent by Barclays technical 
support team  which may be related to the time of year. The application was passed to an 
underwriter on 7 January, and a mortgage offer was issued on 26 January.
I think this was a reasonable timescale. I appreciate time was of the essence for 
Mr and Mrs D if they wanted to complete within the porting window. But doing so was always 
subject to whether Barclays would be able to issue a mortgage offer  and then whether 
there would be enough time after that for the purchase to complete.
Barclays didnt offer any guarantee that it would be able to process an application and issue 
an offer within any particular timescale. I think Mr and Mrs D were always aware that there 
was a limited time for them to complete their new mortgage, and that as a result there was little margin for error. And in those circumstances, not finalising their mortgage application 
until 23 December was a considerable risk for them to take.
Once Mr and Mrs D finally decided what they wanted, on 23 December, Ive not seen any 
evidence that Barclays took an unreasonable time, or that it caused error or delay in the 
process.
I note they found a new lender able to go from application to offer in 10 days. And I can 
understand why they think Barclays should have been able to do the same. But I dont think 
thats a reasonable expectation  I think that is, realistically, as fast as its possible to go. Its 
not a benchmark, longer than which is unreasonable. In other words, just because the other 
lender managed to issue an offer that quickly, it doesnt mean that it was unfair Barclays 
didnt.
Mr and Mrs D sold their existing property before they were ready to buy the new one  
knowing the ERC would expire in a few months, and knowing they had to complete on a new 
mortgage within 90 days to have it refunded. But it wasnt until half that time had passed that 
they finally decided on the new mortgage they wanted, just before the Christmas break.
Im afraid the reality is that Mr and Mrs D simply left it too late to be sure they would be able 
to complete their application in time. And in those circumstances, I dont think I can fairly find 
that Barclays should refund the ERC. Its offered £400 compensation, and Im satisfied thats 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
The responses to my provisional decision
Barclays accepted my provisional decision. But Mr and Mrs D did not.
Mr and Mrs D said:
The investigator had found that Barclays errors had resulted in 13 working days 
being lost  as the offer was issued on 26 January, only five days after the deadline, 
that means that but for Barclays errors things would have completed on time;
Its not fair that the 90 day window included the Christmas break  it should have 
referred only to working days;
Mr and Mrs D acted as soon as they had decided what to do. Prior to that, they had 
been considering buying other properties. Once they had decided on the property to 
buy, they submitted their application  within the 90 day window;
The other lender processed their application and issued an offer within 10 days. 
Barclays should have been able to do the same, especially as Mr and Mrs D were 
already Barclays customers;
The application wasnt submitted until the sale price had been agreed and they were 
ready to proceed;
Barclays had delayed in responding to the investigators original opinion on the 
complaint. This shows that it is not able to keep to deadlines, and means its unfair 
that I took what it said into account;
As I had reached a different outcome to the investigator, there were two opposing outcomes. The complaint should be passed to a third party for a casting vote.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again all the arguments made in response to my provisional decision. 
But having done so, I havent changed my mind.
Ill deal with the procedural points first. To ensure the timely progression of complaints, we 
issue deadlines for the various stages of our process. But we are able to consider and grant 
requests for extensions to deadlines from either party in the interests of allowing them a fair 
opportunity to make their case. And in any case, it wasnt simply Barclays response to the 
investigators view that led me to reach a different conclusion  I reached my provisional 
decision having considered all the evidence and arguments. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, an ombudsmans decision is final and 
 if accepted by the complainant  legally binding. We provide a two stage investigation 
process, to allow the parties to comment on a proposed outcome before a final decision is 
reached. 
That first stage is generally delegated to an investigator. Where either party disagrees with 
an investigator, they have the right to ask an ombudsman to make a final decision  as 
Barclays did in this case (and as Mr and Mrs D could have done had they disagreed with the 
investigator). An ombudsmans decision is in that sense an appeal against the investigators 
proposed outcome. Where an ombudsman disagrees with an investigator, the ombudsmans 
decision is final  it does not represent a score draw needing a decider or casting vote.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs D are concerned that the investigator recommended upholding their 
complaint and I provisionally decided not to  a wholly different outcome. Its unfortunate that 
this happened. But where either party disagrees with the investigator  as Barclays did here 
 its my role to look at all the evidence afresh and to reach my own, independent, outcome. 
Thats what I did, and I gave my reasons for doing so in my provisional decision.
Turning to the substantive arguments Mr and Mrs D have made, they havent changed my 
mind about the outcome.
Mr and Mrs D have explained that they made their mortgage application once theyd decided 
what property to buy, agreed the purchase price, and decided how much to borrow. And I 
dont doubt thats what they did.
But the fact is that their mortgage application was not finalised until 23 December, two 
months into the three month porting window  a window Mr and Mrs D were aware of from 
the start. 
Its also not the case that the porting window was only missed by five days. The mortgage 
offer might have been issued on 26 January, but that was not the requirement  what was 
required was that the mortgage complete, not reach offer, by 21 January. Once a mortgage 
offer is issued there are further formalities to go through and then a completion date and 
draw down of the funds needs to be arranged. 
And as Ive explained, I dont think the fact that another lender was able to issue an offer in 
ten days means that it was unreasonable that Barclays took longer. In any case, as Ive said, 
the mortgage has to complete, not just reach offer, within the 90 day window.I think it was clear that the window was 90 days  not working days, but calendar days  and 
while that included the Christmas break, that was always clear to Mr and Mrs D. 
Ultimately the reason Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage didnt complete by 21 January, allowing 
them to be refunded the ERC, was not because of anything Barclays did or didnt do, or 
because of the Christmas bank holidays. It was because they didnt finalise their mortgage 
application until 23 December. And that meant there was always going to be a significant 
risk they wouldnt be able to complete by 21 January  and I dont think Barclays is 
responsible for that.
Putting things right
As I noted in my provisional decision, Barclays has offered £400 compensation to settle this 
complaint, and I think thats a fair offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that Barclays Bank UK PLC has made a fair and 
reasonable offer to settle this complaint. It should pay Mr and Mrs D £400 compensation, if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman