DRN-1989388
The complaint
Mr W complains about the exchange rate that HSBC UK Bank Plc (T/A First Direct) applied 
to a future dated international payment he asked it to make.
What happened
On 8 January 2020 Mr W set up a future dated international transfer for just under NZD 
12000, which he wanted First Direct to send on 13 January 2019. Before setting up his 
online instruction for the transfer, Mr W said he looked at First Directs website, which 
referred to it offering competitive exchange rates and no fees on international transfers made 
online.
Mr W went ahead with his transfer instruction. He said he didnt know what exchange rate 
First Direct would apply to his transfer because it was future dated. But he expected it to use 
a competitive rate based on the information it had presented on its website. 
On 13 January 2020 First Direct executed Mr Ws request to transfer his funds overseas. His 
account was debited in the sum of £6220.73, which was more than he was expecting. First 
Direct subsequently informed him it had applied an exchange rate of 1.9.
On 17 January 2020 Mr W contacted First Direct to complain about the exchange rate it had 
applied to his transfer. He said the mid-market rate on the date of the transfer was around 
1.97. So, he felt the exchange rate First Direct had used was unfair and uncompetitive 
despite it stating online that it used competitive rates. He also felt it was concealing charges 
in the exchange rate it had applied to his transfer.
When First Direct responded to Mr Ws complaint it explained the exchange rates it used 
were specifically for retail banking rather than interbank or mid-market rates he may have 
seen online elsewhere. It also stated it had set out information about fees clearly online and 
refuted Mr Ws comments that he had been misled or that his transfer had incurred hidden 
charges. As it didnt feel it had made an error in processing Mr Ws international transfer it 
didnt uphold his complaint.
Being dissatisfied with First Directs response to his complaint Mr W referred it to our 
service. Our investigator weighed up the information provided by Mr W and First Direct but 
they didnt recommend upholding this complaint. Overall, they didnt think First Direct had 
done anything wrong or needed to do anything more here. And they thought it had dealt with 
Mr Ws complaint fairly. But he disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether First Direct acted fairly and reasonably in applying the 
exchange rate it did. Ive carefully considered what First Direct and Mr W have said here. But, while I understand that Mr W is frustrated by the exchange rate First Direct applied to 
his transfer, Im not persuaded to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
There isnt a single exchange rate for a currency that banks must track or replicate because 
each bank sets its own exchange rate, which is based on market conditions. So, exchange 
rates can differ from bank to bank. 
I can see Mr W has compared the rate First Direct applied to the mid-market rate he saw 
online. He said this is more favourable to him. However, First Direct told Mr W, and our 
service, that the rates it uses are specifically for retail banking. Theyre not interbank or mid-
market rates, which Mr W would have been able to see online if comparing the exchange 
rates offered by alternate providers. So, this provides an explanation as to why the rate it 
applied was different.
Based on the evidence Ive seen its clear First Direct applies its own exchange rate, which 
has its own margin included. Applying a margin is a recognised industry practice and is not 
uncommon. This explains why whilst its possible to see preferable, or more competitive, 
exchange rates elsewhere First Direct will use its own rate. 
First Direct has declined to disclose the margin it applies to exchange rate transactions as 
thats commercially sensitive information. I can understand why Mr W may feel this is unfair. 
But First Direct is under no obligation to tell Mr W its margin. And our service cant tell it to 
share this information.
While Mr W feels margins are unfair, and create an opportunity to conceal the true cost of 
transferring funds abroad, our service wont interfere with or tell a business what margin it 
should apply to exchange rates. Instead we will look at whether a business provided 
adequate information to a customer about the exchange rate it would apply to their transfer. 
So, Ive carefully considered what information would have been available to Mr W at the time 
he set up his future dated transfer online.
Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied that when Mr W set up his online transfer instruction 
on 8 January 2020 he would have been shown an exchange rate indication before reviewing 
and confirming his payment request. 
First Direct told our service that this information should be treated by customers as an 
example exchange rate so they can make an informed choice about whether to proceed. 
And I think thats a fair comment. Ill explain why.
On its website, under the how can I check the First Direct Exchange rate section it states:
For immediate payments, you'll be shown the exchange rate before you make the payment 
- which you can choose to accept or reject. We will also write to you to let you know the 
exchange rate we applied to the payment, where applicable.
Immediately underneath this First Direct states the following about future dated payments:
For future dated or recurring payments, the exchange rate will be applied on the day the 
payment is made. You can check the actual exchange rate used for the payment via Online 
Banking or by giving us a call. We'll also write to you to let you know the exchange rate we 
applied to the payment, where applicable.
Based on the information First Direct presented on its website, and online international 
payment system, I think Mr W was given enough information about its process when making future dated international payments to help him understand how it would apply the exchange 
rate and how he could confirm what the rate would be prior to the payment being made.
Im there satisfied it ought to have been clear to Mr W that the exchange rate that First Direct 
would apply wouldnt be determined until the day of the transfer  here 13 January 2020. 
And I think this placed the onus on Mr W to contact First Direct in order to check he was 
content with the exchange rate it was intending to use. I say this because he created the 
online payment instruction authorising it to transfer his funds overseas and it had no reason 
not to execute his request unless he rescinded that instruction.
First Direct said Mr W could have cancelled his payment instruction up to 23:59 pm on 12 
January 2020. But he didnt contact it before the transfer was processed. Instead he chose 
to proceed with his international payment not knowing what the exchange rate would be. I 
therefore cant fairly conclude that First Direct made an error in actioning his online payment 
instruction.
I appreciate Mr W feels the exchange rate First Direct applied is unfair and uncompetitive 
when compared with the rate he could have obtained from other providers. But, it was Mr 
Ws choice to set up a future dated transfer. And he was aware, in doing so, that the 
exchange rate couldnt be anticipated by First Direct. Ive already explained why First Direct 
is entitled to set its own exchange rate. So, I cant fairly conclude it made an error in applying 
the exchange rate it did here.
Finally, Mr W raised concerns that First Direct conceals the charges that apply to 
international transfers. However, Ive seen how it sets out clearly on its website that it 
doesnt charge a fee for setting up a payment online. It charges £4 for arranging an 
international transfer over the telephone. 
In this case Mr W instructed First Direct online to transfer his funds overseas. No fee was 
applied to his transfer. And, while Mr W has told our investigator that First Direct has hidden 
charges, Im satisfied the information presented on its website is clear and transparent.
I understand Mr Ws frustration  he feels hes incurred a loss as a result of the exchange 
rate First Direct used. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied it 
provided unambiguous and clear information about its exchange rates. I therefore cant fairly 
conclude it made an error here or uphold Mr Ws complaint. It acted fairly and reasonably. 
So, Im not going ask it to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman