DRN-2239917
The complaint
Mr C complains that he didnt receive any compensation when Standard Life Assurance 
Limited reviewed his annuity sale. 
 
What happened
Mr C had a pension with SL. In October 2008, he bought two SL annuities with his fund. In 
2019 SL contacted him as they were reviewing non-advised annuity sales during a specific 
period. This was due to concerns that insufficient information might have been provided 
about the option to shop around for enhanced annuities on the open market. Mr C was 
invited to complete a health questionnaire for him and his wife (as his annuities were joint life 
annuities) which he duly returned to SL. Both had high blood pressure but werent on 
medication at the time of the sale.
Mr C received an outcome letter a couple of months later which said he may have been 
eligible for an enhanced annuity, however the annuity income he received was higher than 
the enhanced annuity income he could have obtained on the open market. SL had used a 
redress calculator which was approved by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and which 
showed that Mr C had not suffered a financial loss. His two annuities with SL provided an 
income of £1704.36 per year, whereas the calculator which took account of Mr and Mrs Cs 
answers on the medical questionnaire showed he could have received £1605.53.
Mr C provided standard annuity quotes from two other providers he had received in October 
2008. They showed that they offered higher quotes than what he received (£1,857.96 and 
£1,831.44 ). He queried how it could be that enhanced rates were lower than standard rates. 
He also feels his time has been wasted by SL as he considers using their calculation method 
it must have been clear that it was unlikely he would receive an additional payment.  
SL pointed out that the quotes he had provided werent on the same basis as his existing 
annuities. One of his annuities had a guarantee period and both were paid twice a year in 
arrears whereas the quotes he provided had no guarantee period and one of them was paid 
annually in arrears (the other quote doesnt show how often the annuity would be paid, but 
Mr C assumes it also would have been paid annually in arrears). SL explained that adding a 
guarantee period and paying it twice a year instead of annually would have reduced the 
income offered.
Mr C remained dissatisfied and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold his 
complaint. She didnt think SL had acted unfairly.
As no agreement could be reached, Mr Cs complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
SL have used a calculator which was approved by the regulator. They provided evidence of 
the details they entered into it and Im satisfied that these were correct and reflected Mr and 
Mrs Cs personal details and information they provided about their health. It can be difficult to 
replicate historic quotes and I understand the calculator is designed to provide a fair 
reflection of the market at a given time using particular algorithms.
Whilst I dont deny this is a practicable and consistent way to see whether customers have 
lost out financially and generally I would consider a reasonable method to calculate redress, 
I cant ignore that Mr C has provided contemporaneous evidence which I think is relevant.
I appreciate that the quotes were not exactly like for like with the annuities Mr C did receive, 
however I think on balance the guarantee period (particularly as Mr C was only 53 at the 
time) and the difference of paying the income twice a year in arrears rather than once, would 
likely have made only a small difference. Information about historic annuity information 
available to this service and an annuity rate list Mr C provided from 2008 also support that in 
mid to late October 2008 SL wasnt one of the more competitive providers for annuities.
Enhanced annuity rates dont always have to be higher than standard annuity rates. Different 
providers offer different rates and rates change frequently. Not every firm offers enhanced 
rates (including SL) and if they do they can vary in what additional income they offer for 
certain health or lifestyle factors. Some providers for example might choose only to offer 
enhanced income for customers with severe health conditions. Its not particularly unusual 
for a competitive standard rate to be higher than an enhanced rate elsewhere. 
I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs Cs high blood pressure would have made Mr C eligible 
for a significantly enhanced annuity. It might not even have entitled him to any enhancement. 
However, given that the evidence suggests higher standard rates were available at the time 
(Mr C was given a formal quote by one of the providers which guaranteed the annuity rate 
until mid November 2008), it doesnt seem plausible that available enhanced annuity income 
on the open market would have been lower than Mr Cs existing annuity income. 
Having said all that, its clear that Mr C knew in 2008 that he could receive higher annuity 
income elsewhere. Ive listened to Mr Cs phone calls with SL in 2019 and he explained he 
chose to go with SL as markets were going down due to the global financial crisis in 2008. 
He considered that by the time he transferred elsewhere his fund value might have dropped 
further and bought him less income even if the rate elsewhere was higher. He thought it was 
better to act quickly.
Mr C consciously decided to reject a higher quote (around £150 per year). As I said above I 
dont think its likely enhanced rates for Mr C would have been significantly higher than 
standard rates. And he most likely would have had to complete a health questionnaire before 
he would have received any enhanced quotes. This would have prolonged the process at a 
time when Mr C felt he needed to buy his annuity quickly due to falling markets. So even if 
SL had explained clearly that enhanced annuities might be available on the open market and 
even if I assume that Mr C could have received a slightly higher income elsewhere, I think on 
balance Mr C still would have proceeded with the SL quote he had.
It follows that Mr C is in the same position he likely would have been in even if SL had given 
him clear enough information in 2008. And so he hasnt lost out financially. I appreciate he 
thinks his and his wifes time have been wasted as they had to compile their health 
information from medical records. However, it was reasonable for SL to ask them for a 
health and lifestyle questionnaire and when he spoke to SL in 2019 he was encouraged to 
simply answer to the best of his abilities. SL could only review Mr Cs annuity sale with this 
additional information. I understand its frustrating that having gone through this process no compensation is being paid. However, I dont think this could have been foreseen and I dont 
think Mr C is due any redress here.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman