DRN-1999726
The complaint
Mr D complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) unfairly declined 
his motor insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr D had a car insurance policy with LV. In mid-December 2019, Mrs D drove the car, using 
her own key fob. When she returned home, Mrs D believed shed locked the car and taken 
the fob inside with her. Later that evening, Mrs D needed to use the car again, but she 
couldnt find her fob, so she used Mr Ds fob to make the second journey. When she 
returned, Mrs D locked the car and continued with her evening. In the early hours of the 
following day the car was stolen.
As soon as Mr D noticed the car had been stolen, he contacted LV to let them know. LV 
asked Mr D to confirm if he was in possession of all the cars documents and both key fobs, 
which he confirmed he was. LV then asked Mr D to take a picture of these and email it to 
them so they could add it to their file. They also explained how their claim process worked 
and the steps involved.
   
A couple of days later, Mr D contacted LV again to ask them to provide a courtesy car. But 
LV said that when Mr D had taken out his policy online, he hadnt selected the option for a 
courtesy car, so it wasnt covered under his policy and they couldnt provide one. But they 
did offer to give him a discount with a third party hire company they could use.
 
A couple of days later, Mr D contact LV again and explained that he couldnt find his wifes 
fob. He also said that he had CCTV footage of the car being stolen. LV said that under these 
circumstances, the theft of a vehicle can raise concerns for them where there is both a 
missing key and a missing car. So they asked Mr D to send over the CCTV footage for them 
to review.
 
A couple of days later Mr D spoke to LV again to explain that hed looked at the full CCTV 
footage and it showed that the car hadnt been locked after Mrs Ds first journey, as the 
wing-mirrors hadnt folded in as they normally do when the car was locked. And it appeared 
that the key had been dropped inside the car and several hours after his wife had returned 
home after her second journey, a third party tried the car door, got into the drivers side door 
and sat in it for a couple of minutes before getting out and leaving. They then returned 
around 20 mins later, got back into the car and drove off with it. LV said that once theyd 
received a copy of the CCTV footage, theyd review this and decide if the theft was covered 
under the insurance policy.
 
Towards the end of December, Mr D sent the CCTV footage to LV. LV wrote to Mr D on the 
same day to confirm theyd declined his claim. They said that because the car had been left 
unlocked with the key inside, the claim wouldnt be covered under the insurance policy. Mr D 
didnt think this was fair, so he made a complaint.
 
Mr D also told LV that he was unhappy that hed been refused a courtesy car whilst the claim 
was being investigated. He said felt this was normally standard in a comprehensive policy, 
so he shouldnt have needed to select this when taking out the policy. He also felt that his 
claim had been declined unfairly without reviewing the CCTV footage, and that the call 
handers had been rude when discussing his claim. He also added that his wifes health 
hadnt been good at the time of the theft, and shed been experiencing symptoms including 
temporary memory loss.
 
LV didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. They said they had considered the CCTV footage before 
declining Mr Ds claim. They also said Mr D had told the claim handler the fob had fallen out 
of Mrs Ds pocket into the car meaning it had been left unlocked. LV explained that both of 
these points meant the claim wouldnt be covered under the insurance policy. They also said 
that they were satisfied with the service their call handlers had given Mr D. Mr D didnt 
agree. So, he asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said she didnt disagree 
that Mr Ds wifes health and memory loss may have contributed to the loss of her key fob. 
However, she thought that LV had applied the policy exclusions in accordance with the 
policy that Mr D had agreed to. So, she didnt think LV had made a mistake or treated him 
unfairly.
 
Mr D didnt agree as he felt LV hadnt dealt with his claim fairly. He said that hed taken out 
his policy over the phone not online so he should have had a courtesy car included in it. He 
also didnt agree that LVs call handlers werent rude, and he felt it was unfair his wifes 
health and the fact that he had CCTV in place hadnt been considered.  So, he asked for an 
ombudsman to look into his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr D has said he feels hes been treated unfairly as he had a comprehensive motor 
insurance policy which should have covered the theft of his vehicle  whether he was at fault 
or not. I acknowledge why Mr D feels this should be the case, however a comprehensive 
policy can still have exclusions or limitations on when an insurance company will pay out on 
a claim. 
Ive looked at Mr Ds policy document and Ive seen that it clearly says under whats not 
covered: 
We wont pay for: 
loss or damage to your car by theft or attempted theft if: 
oyour car has been left unlocked; 
oyour car has been left with a window or roof open;
othe engine has been left running when unattended;
oyour car doesnt have a working tracking device when unattended and your 
schedule confirms this is required;
othe ignition key or other ignition device is left in, on or attached to or left in the 
immediate proximity of your car
Mr D told us that he had CCTV footage of his car being stolen, which hed provided to LV. 
He also said that when hed looked at the CCTV footage, it showed that Mrs D had left the 
missing fob in the car, and that it had been picked up by a third party. I recognise its likely that because of Mrs Ds memory loss she may have thought shed locked the car after her 
first journey. And because of this, Mr and Mrs D werent aware at the time that their car was 
both unlocked and missing a key fob which had been dropped in the car. 
I also acknowledge that when Mrs D locked the car later that evening after her second 
journey - using Mr Ds fob - she had no reason to believe it wasnt secure. However, this still 
meant that Mr Ds car was left unlocked earlier in the day, and the fob had been left 
unattended in or near the car at the time it was taken by the third party.
Mr D believes that because the car was actually locked and secure at the time of the theft, 
the theft should be covered under the policy. However, whether the car was stolen around 
the time that Mrs D had initially misplaced her fob, or later that evening, it still remains that 
the car had been left unlocked earlier in the day, with Mrs Ds fob either inside or close to the 
car - which is what ultimately allowed the theft of the car. This means that even if LV hadnt 
declined the claim because the car was unlocked, they would been able to decline the claim 
as the fob had been left within the immediate proximity of the car allowing access to it. 
I recognise that Mr D feels that the CCTV footage wasnt reviewed before his claim was 
declined, as the letter he received was dated the same day as LV received the footage. And 
he feels two hours wasnt sufficient for LV to review this information before making their 
decision - but I dont agree. Ive seen the evidence in addition to the CCTV footage, that LV 
used to make their decision which also included Mr Ds own comments from the various 
phone calls, Mr Ds inability to provide proof that Mrs Ds fob was in his possession. And I 
think all of these combined, even without the CCTV footage were sufficient for LV to decline 
the claim. 
I acknowledge Mr Ds comments that this was a genuine mistake and that his wifes health 
was likely to have played a part, and I have no reason to doubt this. However, I think LV 
have acted in-line with the exclusion terms of the policy so I cant reasonably say theyve 
treated Mr D unfairly by declining the claim. 
Mr D has said that he feels it was unreasonable that he wasnt provided with a courtesy car 
as part of his comprehensive policy, and that he was told hed have received this if the policy 
had been taken out over the phone. I recognise there is a difference of opinion between both 
parties on how the policy was taken out  either by phone or online.  But Ive looked at the 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), which would have either been available 
online or sent out after a policy was taken out over the phone, and I can see that under the 
section Optional Covers which is highlighted in bold it offers a Guaranteed Hire Car. 
I think LV made it clear in the IPID that a guaranteed courtesy car was an option that could 
be taken out in addition to the standard policy, and that it wasnt automatically included. So, I 
think regardless of whether Mr D took the policy out online or over the phone, he ought to 
reasonably have been aware that if his policy documents didnt say a courtesy car was 
included, its likely it wouldnt have been. And if he was expecting it to have been included as 
part of his policy, that he could have queried this when he took it out. So, I cant say that LV 
treated Mr D unfairly by not providing a courtesy car. 
Mr D has said he doesnt agree that LVs call handlers werent rude, and in particular hes 
mentioned a comment where he was told no car, no fob, doesnt look good does it. Ive 
listened to the calls between Mr D and LV and heard the call where the call handler said to 
Mr D that when weve got a missing car and a missing key it can raise concerns for us. But 
I dont feel this was an accusation, more that this was a statement of how LV approach 
claims under these circumstances. I didnt hear the call handler didnt change their tone or response towards Mr D and only 
replied that they would pass on this information to the person dealing with the case and 
continued to offer assistance on how Mr D could get a hire car at a discount. Ive also 
listened to the other calls between LV and Mr D, and Im satisfied based on the evidence Ive 
heard that LVs call handlers werent rude to Mr D. 
I recognise that this has been a distressing time for Mr D and that this wont be the outcome 
he was hoping for. However, having reviewed Mr Ds complaint in full, I cant say that LV has 
acted unreasonably or applied any of the terms and conditions of its policy unfairly, so I cant 
uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman