DRN-3505154
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that U K Insurance Limited declined their claim against their travel 
insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs F have travel insurance as a benefit of a bank 
account. 
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs F booked flights for an overseas trip to property they partly 
own and rent to holidaymakers. Their original departure and return dates were                          
2  September 2020 and 25 September 2020 respectively and they blocked out rentals of 
the property during that period. On 30 June 2020, the airline cancelled Mr and Mrs Fs 
flights. On 23 July 2020, Mr and Mrs F booked new flights. The new departure and return 
dates were 7 September 2020 and 3 October 2020 respectively. 
Mr and Mrs F took the required PCR tests before departure and believed that, on arrival 
at their destination, they would need to isolate at their property for one week. But when 
Mr and Mrs F landed at their destination they learned that they were required to 
quarantine in hotel for a week at their own expense and pay for additional PCR tests. 
Mr and Mrs F made a claim against the policy in relation to the additional costs of the 
quarantine hotel and PCR tests. UKI declined the claim. It said that what happened here 
was an anticipated event and therefore excluded under the policy. Mr and Mrs F didnt 
accept that and pursued their complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that UKI had 
acted unfairly in declining Mr and Mrs Fs claim. The investigator said that whilst UKI 
hadnt correctly addressed Mr and Mrs Fs claim, it was entitled to rely on the anticipated 
events exclusion. That was because when Mr and Mrs F rebooked their flights on          
23 July 2020, the government of the destination country required travellers to quarantine 
in a facility at their own expense. So, what happened here was an anticipated event. 
The investigator also said that Mr and Mrs Fs policy doesnt cover the additional costs 
they claimed, so even if the anticipated event exclusion didnt apply, their claim isnt 
covered by the policy. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with the investigator. They said, in summary:
If UKI didnt address their claim correctly, its not for this service to correct its 
mistake.
Their decision to take the trip was made on 19 January 2020, so thats the date 
on which they booked their trip. The airline disrupted their travel plans but it 
remains the case that their trip was booked on 19 January 2020.
Their destination country required isolation, not quarantine, up to                          
7 September 2020. So, they couldnt anticipate having to pay for a quarantine 
hotel. 
They couldnt curtail or cancel their trip as they only discovered that theyd have 
to quarantine in a facility when they landed at their destination. 
Insurance is supposed to protect individuals from unpredictable risks. The travel 
disruption due to Covid-19 couldnt have been predicted, so whilst theres no 
specific clause in the policy, UKI should cover their costs which werent 
predictable at the time they booked their trip on 19 January 2020. 
The investigator considered what Mr and Mrs F said but didnt change her view.            
Mr and Mrs F asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr F in particular has strong feelings about this matter. Hes provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all this carefully and taken it all into 
consideration when making my decision. I trust that neither Mr nor Mrs F will take as a 
discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think is the central issue in the case, that is, whether 
what happened here is covered by their policy. 
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding                 
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint because I dont think that UKI treated them unfairly in declining 
their claim. I say that because:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer 
will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and conditions 
of the policy document. Mr and Mrs F are right to say that insurance protects against 
unpredictable risks. But it only does so to the extent that the insurer takes on the risk. 
The onus is on the consumer to show that their claim falls under one of the agreed 
areas of cover within the policy. If the event is covered in principle but is declined on 
the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy, the onus shifts to the insurer to show 
how that exclusion applies.
In essence, Mr and Mrs F incurred additional accommodation and other expenses 
because of the requirements of their destination country in response to Covid-19. Ive 
looked carefully at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs policy. What happened 
here isnt an insured event. So, Mr and Mrs F havent shown that their claim falls 
under one of the agreed areas of cover. Therefore, UKI isnt obliged to settle their 
claim.
Mr and Mrs F say that if UKI didnt decline their claim correctly, its not for this service 
to correct its mistake. But thats not how we approach complaints. We look at the 
totality of the circumstances, including the terms and conditions of the policy. In this 
particular case, Mr and Mrs Fs claim isnt covered by the policy. There are no grounds 
on which I could fairly direct UKI to settle their claim, as what happened here isnt a 
risk UKI agreed to cover. UKI relied on the exclusion relating to anticipated events in declining Mr and Mrs Fs 
claim. But even if UKI had reached a different decision about whether these events 
were anticipated, it remains the case that Mr and Mrs Fs claim isnt covered by the 
policy. So, my determination of when Mr and Mrs F booked their trip and what was 
known about their destination countrys requirements at that time wouldnt alter the 
outcome of this complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs F but, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold 
their complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman