DRN-1789654
The complaint
Mr M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited is responsible for mishandling 
a claim on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one insurance 
company or other regulated financial firm at a time. 
Where a complaint is about a claim under an insurance policy, we treat it as a complaint 
against the insurance company that was responsible for dealing with that claim. In our final 
decision we name that insurance company, but we dont identify any other party. 
We dont make findings against any other financial firm against which the consumer may 
complain separately.
In early August 2016, Mr M had a motor insurance policy branded with the name of an 
insurance intermediary. Advantage was the insurer responsible for dealing with claims. 
The policy terms included a definition of We/Us that made it clear that the intermediary was 
acting on behalf of Advantage. Where I refer to Advantage, I include the intermediary, 
claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Advantage responsible for their actions.
On 5 August 2016, Mr M notified Advantage that - while overtaking - he had clipped a cyclist. 
Mr M didnt wish to claim for any damage to his vehicle.
In January 2017, the cyclist made a claim for personal injury. By 23 November 2017, 
Advantage had settled that claim and told Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) that 
Mr M had been at fault.
In February 2019 Mr M passed his motorcycle test and ordered a new bike. On about 27 
February 2019, Mr M, through a bike insurance intermediary, took out a bike policy with a 
new insurer for a year from 2 March 2019. He didnt mention the August 2016 incident. 
The bike insurance intermediary found out about the August 2016 incident. On about 2 
March 2019, the intermediary asked Mr M for an additional premium of £567.62.
Mr M complained to Advantage that it hadnt informed him about the cyclists claim or its 
settlement. 
By a final response dated 12 December 2019, Advantage said it hadnt been obliged to tell 
Mr M when the cyclist made the claim  but it shouldve told him when it settled the claim. 
Advantage paid Mr M £50.00 for trouble and upset.
Unhappy with that, Mr M brought his complaint to us on 20 December 2019. He said 
Advantage should increase its payment.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that - 
as Mr M never heard anything from Advantage - Mr M may have felt he didnt have to 
disclose the claim. So he wouldve been stressed and frustrated by what had happened with 
his new insurer. The investigator recommended that Advantage should pay Mr M a further 
£50.00.
Advantage disagreed with the investigators opinion. It asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint. It says, in summary, that:
£50.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the 
claim closure letter not being sent.
Advantage doesnt know whether the new insurer asked Mr M a clear question about 
his driving history. If it did, he shouldve disclosed the August 2016 incident. The new 
insurer wouldve been able to correctly calculate his premium.
Advantage didnt cause the stress that Mr M experienced as a result of the new 
insurer amending his policy to the correct details. 
Mr M was still within his cooling- off period and had the option to cancel the new 
policy and look elsewhere if it was no longer competitive.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He says, in summary, that:
   The principle of utmost good faith in contracts of insurance works in both directions.
   Advantages position that it had no legal obligation to inform him of the claim is 
contrary to that principle.
   All the investigator has done is to confirm Advantages failure and increase the level 
of compensation.
   To reflect Advantages culpability, compensation should be increased to £150.00.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt punish financial firms. Where we find that a firm 
shouldve acted differently, we dont assess compensation at a level to reflect its culpability 
or to deter future wrongdoing. Rather we look at the effect on the complainant and we direct 
compensation for financial loss or for distress ad inconvenience wrongly caused by the firm.
The Advantage policy terms included the following note:
A non-recoverable claim is a claim made against your Policy, where your Insurer 
has made a payment they cant recover in full, from a Third Party. 
Or its a claim thats outstanding because its not clear whos responsible. 
Sometimes its called a fault claim.
Thats a clear explanation of the usual practice, in my view. So a claim may be a fault claim 
without any acceptance of fault by the policyholder.Most motor insurance policies contain a term allowing the insurer to decide how to deal with 
a claim involving a third party. Advantages policy included the following:
Your Insurer has the right to:
Take over and conduct the defence or settlement of any claim
 Take legal action over any claim.
These actions may be taken in your name
So  on the issue of how to deal with a claim from a third party - Advantages view would 
prevail over Mr Ms.
In August 2016, Mr M didnt make a claim for damage to his vehicle. But I consider that he 
was making a claim for Advantage to indemnify him against any claim from the cyclist. And 
in any event Advantage was under a legal duty to deal on Mr Ms behalf with any such claim.
The insurer wrote a letter dated 12 August 2016 o Mr M. It included the following:
Please note that if you are deemed responsible for the accident we may make 
contact with the third party in order to deal with their claim directly.
The context was that Mr M had reported clipping the cyclist. So Im satisfied that Advantage 
had done enough to tell Mr M that it would deal with any claim from the cyclist. The policy 
terms allowed Advantage to settle the cyclists claim. 
Neither Mr M nor Advantage has told us when the policy came to an end. From what the 
bike insurance intermediary and Mr M said later, he was involved in another incident in 
February 2018.
It was a year later in February 2019 that Mr M took out the bike policy with the new insurer. 
The old principle of utmost good faith in insurance contracts has been substantially 
modified in favour of consumers by the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012, and the approach applied by the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
I would expect the new insurer to ask a clear question and I would expect Mr M to take care 
to answer as correctly as possible.
From the bike policy schedule, I see that the intermediary had asked Mr M the following:
Have you or any person who may drive been involved in any accident, claim or loss 
(including loss by fire, theft or malicious acts), irrespective of blame, during the past 
three years?
From the policy schedule, I see that Mr M had answered Yes and was met with a follow-up 
question as follows:
If Yes please provide full details below.
I see that Mr M gave no details of the August 2016 incident. He gave details of the February 
2018 incident but said it wasnt an at fault claim. I make no finding as to whether Mr M took 
reasonable care to give a correct answer.
However, I see that the bike insurance intermediary wrote a letter including the following:
The reason why there was an additional premium was due to a fault claim from 5th 
of August 2016 being non disclosed to ourselves, also the claim that took place on the 23rd February 2018 had been put as non fault and we have confirmation this was 
settled at fault
Thats two reasons why there was an additional premium. 
As regards the first reason, I consider that August 2016 incident and settlement of the 
cyclists claim were always likely to increase the cost of Mr Ms insurance. The policy terms 
entitled Advantage to settle that claim. 
I dont condone its failure to tell Mr M when it closed the August 2016 claim in November 
2017. But neither that failure nor Mr Ms omission to mention the August 2016 incident 
caused the new insurer to increase the premium. One reason the new insurer charged the 
increased premium was because Advantage had  reasonably in my view  settled the 
cyclists claim. 
As regards the second reason  about the February 2018 claim  theres no evidence that 
this was anything to do with Advantage. 
Therefore Im not persuaded that  by failing to send a closure letter in November 2017 
Advantage caused any identifiable increase in Mr Ms bike premium in March 2019.
In any event - if he thought he could get a lower premium elsewhere - Mr M couldve 
cancelled the policy with the new insurer. 
If Advantage had told Mr M when it settled the third partys claim in November 2017, then he 
wouldve been better informed and more prepared for higher insurance premiums. So I do 
hold Advantage responsible for some of the distress and inconvenience Mr M suffered as a 
result of finding out from his new insurer in March 2019.
Putting things right
I dont consider that £50.00 was enough to compensate Mr M for this. Overall I find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Advantage to pay a further £50.00 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr M  in addition to the £50.00 it has 
already paid  a further £50.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman