DRN-2303151
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard made an error with his 
card payments, which caused him upset and inconvenience for which hed like 
compensation.
What happened
Mr C says that between May and June 2020 he made four payments onto his Barclaycard in 
addition to his direct debit. However, on 12 June, he checked his bank and credit card 
statements and noticed that a payment for £300 had been reversed. He was concerned that 
there might be fraud on his account and tried to contact Barclaycard and when he couldnt 
get through by phone he emailed with his concerns. He says he wasnt able to upload his 
statements using the online portal and feels it wasnt user friendly.
Mr C complains Barclaycard didnt contact him to let him know about the error. He says this 
increased his concerns along with the fact he couldnt contact Barclays online or by phone. 
Hed says his usual hourly rate is £200 and as he spent fours hours dealing with this, he 
feels Barclaycard should compensate him for this.  
Barclaycard acknowledged that, due to a systems error, a payment made by Mr C to his 
Barclaycard on 5 June was duplicated on 12 June. However, this affected a number of 
accounts so the problem was identified quickly and the relevant payments reversed. In 
addition, it had sent a text on 13 June to all customers affected to let them know what had 
happened.
Barclaycard explained that although the payment  and the reversal  were shown on Mr Cs 
credit card statement the duplicated payment was never in fact taken from his bank account. 
It apologised for the mistake and felt this was reasonable.
Our investigator agreed thered been a mistake but said that as Barclaycard had identified 
and corrected the error within a very short space of time, contacted customers to let them 
know and thered been no financial loss to Mr C she didnt feel it needed to do anything 
more.
Mr C disagreed and said he hadnt had any text messages from Barclaycard. He also 
disputed that he hadnt suffered a financial loss as hed had to spend over four hours in 
trying to clarify what had happened and on that basis, he considered that he was entitled to 
compensation for Barclaycards mistake on his account. He asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this isnt the decision Mr C is hoping for but, having done so Ive come to the view 
that Barclaycard has dealt with this complaint fairly and for that reason I wont be asking it to 
do anything more as Ill now explain.
Barclaycard has accepted that there was a systems error in June 2020 and as a result, 
some payments that were made on 5 June were duplicated.  This happened in Mr Cs case 
with the result that a payment of £300, originally made on 5 June by Mr C to his credit card, 
was duplicated on 12th June. Barclaycard says the problem was identified very quickly and 
Mr Cs duplicated payment was reversed on 15 June and the money was not at any time 
taken from his current account. 
As Barclaycard has accepted responsibility for what happened, the question is whether the 
steps its already taken are sufficient or whether it should now also pay Mr C compensation 
for the impact of its mistake.
I should explain that where we find a business has made a mistake, we aim to put the 
consumer back in the position they would have been in if the mistake hadnt happened. We 
can also award compensation for the impact on the consumer but we wont necessarily do 
so in every case and it will depend on the circumstances of each case and the impact on the 
consumer.
 
In this case Mr C says he was concerned when he checked his bank account and credit card 
statement and saw that theres been a thered been a payment reversal. He was worried this 
might be fraudulent activity and this seems to have been made worse because when Mr C 
first saw this entry he didnt also see that this was reversal of the other duplicated payment.
I understand why Mr C was concerned but Im satisfied that this second payment wasnt 
actually taken from his current account and that there was no actual financial loss in this 
case, despite this mistake.
Its also clear  and probably because this was a wider systems error  that Barclaycard 
became aware of the problem very quickly and was able to take action to put matters right. 
On 13 June, it also texted the affected customers, including Mr C, to say: 
Payment(s) you made towards your Barclaycard on 05 June were duplicated and are showing on your
account on 12 June. Were sorry for our error and any confusion caused. You dont need to do 
anything, well be reversing any duplicates on 15 June. Please check your balance before you spend. 
Ive seen Mr C didnt receive this text but Barclaycard has provided information to show a 
text was sent to him so Im satisfied it had taken reasonable steps to contact Mr C and it 
couldnt have known it hadnt arrived. In the circumstances I feel Barclaycard took 
appropriate steps to put matters right and to keep its customers informed and that there 
wasnt much more it could reasonably have done at the time.
I appreciate Mr C doesnt agree. He feels Barclaycard should compensate him for his time in 
dealing with this duplicated payment and for the inconvenience hes had. Ive taken this into 
account but, in general, we dont award compensation to consumers for their time spent in 
resolving their complaints as thats part of the process of bringing a complaint.  Id also add 
that although Mr C has valued his time on a professional basis, in this case I cant agree he 
was acting as a professional but as an individual, for which there isnt a precise hourly rate, 
even if it was applicable. 
Im not trying to minimise Mr Cs concerns but Im satisfied Barclaycard took steps to resolve 
the problem as soon as it was aware- and did so promptly. In addition, it also let its customers know what had happened and what it was doing to put it right.  I think that was 
reasonable and what Id expect it to have done in the circumstances. 
Finally, Ive taken note of Mr Cs unhappiness with the online message service but, as 
Barclaycard has explained, this process isnt designed to allow customers to upload files and 
thats a design issue not a mistake. I appreciate Mr C found this service unhelpful but the 
way Barclaycard manages its business is a commercial decision thats outside the scope of 
this decision and, for that reason, I cant ask it to change its processes.
I realise Mr C may be disappointed by my decision but for the reasons set out above, I 
consider that the apology and explanation already offered are sufficient and, on that basis, I 
wont be asking Barclaycard to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman