DRN-1627679
The complaint
Ms H had a mortgage loan and a further advance with Nationwide Building Society. She took 
a ten-year interest rate product on the further advance. Then she wanted to refinance the 
main loan with another lender to get a better rate, but found both loans would have to be 
with the same lender. So she had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) in order to 
refinance the further advance as well. 
She complains that Nationwide didnt tell her that she couldnt move part of her borrowing to 
another lender and that all of it would need to be moved over. She incurred the ERC 
because of this.
What happened
Ms H bought her property in 2015 with a Nationwide mortgage of some £360,500 over a 
term of 35 years i.e. until 2050. She took a 2-year base rate tracker mortgage product. There 
was no ERC.
On expiry of the product in 2017 she approached Nationwide for a new product to avoid 
going onto the standard variable rate (SVR). Nationwide made an offer on 3 July 2017. Ms H 
presumably accepted this because Nationwide issued confirmation on 3 August 2017. It was 
for a two-year fixed-interest product expiring on 31 August 2019. There was an ERC of 2% 
for the first year and 1% for the second.
In 2018 Ms H sought a further advance and on 15 February 2018 Nationwide made an offer 
to lend some £70,000 over a term of 19 years i.e. until 2037. There was a ten-year fixed 
interest rate with an ERC starting at 7% and diminishing to 1%. Ms H evidently accepted 
this.
On 12 August 2019 Nationwide wrote to Ms H reminding her that the product on the main 
loan would expire on 31 August 2019, and that that borrowing would move onto the SVR.
I assume Ms H approached Nationwide for a new fixed rate because on 13 September 2019 
it made a product switch offer in relation to the main loan. The new product was a two-year 
Bank of England base rate tracker with no ERC. Ive not seen anything to indicate that Ms H 
accepted this offer.
The explanation for that is that Ms H says that at this point she wanted to remortgage the 
main loan with another provider to get a better rate, but keep the further advance with 
Nationwide. She says Nationwide wouldnt allow this to happen without her paying an ERC 
on the further advance. She considers this unfair because if Nationwide had told her about 
this in February 2018, she would have chosen a one year product not ten years.
On Ms Hs complaint to Nationwide it said its understanding of her complaint was that it 
didnt tell her in 2018 that she couldnt move the main loan to another provider if she took a 
10-year fixed rate on the further advance. So she was locked into two mortgages with 
Nationwide for 10 years. Her solicitors had advised her that both mortgage accounts had to 
be redeemed in order to re-mortgage to the new lender, but Nationwide hadnt told her this.
Nationwide confirmed that Ms H had redeemed the mortgage on 1 October 2019. For 
Nationwides security to be redeemed, both loans needed to be repaid. As the further 
advance was subject to a fixed rate product, an ERC had been made. 
Nationwide said that if Ms H had mentioned that she was thinking of re-mortgaging to 
another lender after the 2-year fixed rate on the main loan had expired, it would have 
explained the implications of taking out a 10-year fixed rate on the further advance. But 
otherwise there was no reason to do so.
Ms H wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to our service, but our investigator 
didnt recommend it be upheld. He couldnt see that Ms H had informed Nationwide that she 
might want to change lenders in August 2019 when the main loan product expired.
The suitability letter dated 7 February 2018 showed there were two elements to the 
borrowing and had said:
Your mortgage has ERCs which means you'll need to make an extra payment to us if you 
move your mortgage to a new provider
The investigator was satisfied Ms H was aware that products being redeemed within the 
fixed rate period would incur an ERC. But he acknowledged she may not have known she 
couldnt take the main loan to another lender and leave the further advance with Nationwide. 
Nevertheless he couldnt say the Nationwide adviser had done anything wrong. Ms Hs being 
unaware of this point didnt mean the adviser had done anything wrong. His advice was 
based on the information she gave him.
The mortgage offer showed that Nationwide secured its loans by a first legal charge. Both 
loans were secured against the property and it wouldnt be plausible to move one while 
leaving the other with Nationwide.
Ms H didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be escalated. She said it was 
unreasonable to expect a consumer to document future intentions. The investigator had 
placed on her the burden of proving her intentions and conversations. Nationwide should 
have procedures to document that it informed her that taking out a separate 10 year product 
would affect the main loan. On a mortgage of nearly 30 years it was reasonable to expect 
the mortgagor would move providers. Nationwide hadnt provided evidence to the contrary.
Ms H said:
At no point was I told in the meeting that the two mortgages were combined into one? If it 
was the same mortgage are there different interest rates and terms. Surely the extra 
£70,000 could just have been added to the existing mortgage? If they were the same 
mortgage why did they have two different account numbers and different annual statements? 
This is not logical. If I go to a bank and get a new bank account it is treated as a having 
separate terms and rates to my existing accounts. One can be closed by the bank whilst the 
other remains open.the only difference is they are generally not secured.
All terms and conditions should be shared before entering into a contract, not after the fact. 
This is basic contract law. During the mortgage advisory meeting Nationwide should have 
advised me the two mortgages became one mortgage. If they are merged you state, this 
should be the first thing advised to a consumer, any new mortgage will have an impact on 
the existing mortgage. They should not advise on mortgages in isolation, the customers full 
portfolio and the impact on it should be reviewed. It should have been specified that by 
entering into a 10 year mortgage I also fixed my earlier mortgage to an addition 10 years. 
This was not stated or advised in writing. This was not explained in the meeting.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its final response to Ms Hs complaint, Nationwide recorded that shed said her solicitors 
had told her that both mortgage accounts had to be redeemed in order to re-mortgage to a 
new lender. And the reason for that is that high street lenders, such as those involved here, 
only lend against the security of a first charge over property. As Nationwide put it in its final 
response letter of 31 October 2019:
Nationwide as a lender will not consider being second charge on any of our lending, which 
would be the case for most mortgage lenders.
For Ms H to do what she wanted, the main loan would have been re-financed with a new 
lender, and the further advance would have remained with Nationwide. So the property 
would have been charged to both lenders. But they couldnt both have first charges. So 
which would be the first charge and which would be the second charge? 
However, for this type of lending, neither lender would have been prepared to accept a 
second charge. Thats why Ms Hs solicitors advised her that both her mortgage accounts 
had to be redeemed in order to re-mortgage the main loan with the new lender.
This wasnt a case of two legal charges becoming one. There was only ever one legal 
charge, and the further advance was added to the borrowing which was secured by that 
charge. 
I think the issue is whether the information Nationwide gave to Ms H at the time she took out 
the further advance was clear, fair and not misleading. And I think it was. Nationwides 
recommendation letter of 7 February 2018 said:
I've recommended the following mortgage for you based on an assumption that you 
complete your mortgage on the 1st of next month. This is a summary of your overall 
mortgage and you can find details of each individual mortgage account on the back of this 
letter.
The letter then set out that there was currently one account with a balance of some 
£341,000, and that in future there would be two accounts with a combined balance of some 
£412,000. It went on to say:
Your mortgage end date is August 2050.All of your mortgage is capital repayment.Your 
mortgage has early repayment charges (ERC) which means you'll need to make an extra 
payment to us if you move your mortgage to a new provider
Mortgage in this context meant, as the letter says, all of the mortgage. There was nothing 
in the letter which implied that Ms H could move only the main loan and avoid an ERC. I 
agree with her that on a mortgage of nearly 30 years it was reasonable to expect the 
mortgagor might move providers. But not that this could be done without ERCs if there were 
products with fixed interest rates.
I don't agree that Nationwide should have had procedures to document that it told Ms H the 
further advance product would affect the main loan. It isn't Nationwides case that it told her 
this. Its case is that it didn't tell her because it didnt know that she was going to try to 
separate the further advance from the main loan and have different interest products with 
two different lenders. And I dont think Nationwide had a duty to anticipate that possibility. It would have been a most unusual thing to do. Nor do I agree that Nationwide had a duty to 
review Ms Hs full portfolio as would a solicitor or mortgage broker.
Ms H also says that Nationwide should have told her that by entering into a 10 year fixed 
rate on the further advance, she also fixed the main loan for an additional 10 years. But she 
didnt. There was nothing to stop her from seeking a new and shorter fixed rate from those 
available from Nationwide.
For these reasons I agree with the investigator that Nationwide hasnt done anything wrong 
here.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2021.  
Edward Callaghan
Ombudsman