DRN-3154813
The complaint
Mr M complains Nationwide Building Society (NBS) failed to dispute a payment he made 
for a flight which he didnt receive.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr M booked a flight from St Vincent to the UK with an airline I will call T, 
using the debit card linked to his NBS account. The ticket cost £614.99 and the flight itself 
was due to depart late in December 2019.  
T went into liquidation in September 2019 and the flight was cancelled. Mr M contacted NBS 
by phone on 25 September 2019 to see if he could claim the money back that hed paid. He 
gave NBS some information about what had happened, and he was asked to provide some 
more information so a dispute could be taken forward. 
Mr M says he emailed NBS the information hed been asked for soon after the call. NBS say 
they didnt receive this email. NBS says it sent a text message to chase the information, but 
Mr M says he didnt receive it. 
In the end NBS closed the dispute and, when Mr M contacted it for an update some months 
later it said it was now too late to dispute the payment with Ts bank. 
Mr M complained about this, and more broadly about NBSs handling of the matter, including 
its security procedures, call waiting times and sending him text messages when he had 
asked it not to. 
Responding to the complaint, NBS agreed that there had been some errors on its part. 
Specifically, it accepted Mr M had asked not to receive text messages in relation to the 
disputed payment, and that promises to call him back had been made which hadnt been 
kept. It disagreed with the rest of the complaint and, in relation to the disputed payment, 
maintained that it had not received the information Mr M claimed to have sent, and it 
therefore had been unable to proceed with the dispute, which it was now too late to reopen.  
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She concluded NBS had had enough 
information, according to guidance published by the Visa card scheme, to dispute the 
payment with Ts bank, as of 25 September 2019. NBS should therefore have proceeded 
with the dispute, which she thought was likely to have been successful. She recommended 
NBS treat Mr M as though it had processed a successful chargeback.
Our investigator didnt agree that Mr Ms complaints about NBSs security procedures or 
waiting times should be upheld. But she did think the service provided had been poor overall 
and this had caused Mr M some inconvenience and frustration. She recommended it 
increase the amount of compensation it paid to Mr M by £75.
Mr M didnt dispute our investigators findings. NBS said it would pay Mr M an additional £75 
compensation (though it didnt accept that it should as it felt it had already compensated him 
enough) but it disagreed with our investigators findings on the disputed payment. It argued 
that the information provided by Mr M on the phone call of 25 September 2019 was 
insufficient for it to have disputed the transaction successfully. It maintained that the chaser it 
had sent via text message had been received by Mr M, albeit it accepted he had asked not 
to be sent texts.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The chargeback
Where a person makes a payment for goods or services on a debit card, their card issuer 
can, in certain circumstances, attempt to claim a refund of the payment (or a part of it) under 
the dispute resolution process operated by the card scheme to which the debit card belongs. 
Disputing a payment in this way is usually referred to as a chargeback. Chargebacks can 
be challenged by the other side (usually the merchants bank or card services provider) and 
are not guaranteed to succeed. 
A consumer cannot require their card issuer to attempt a chargeback  this is not a 
consumer right  but I would expect the issuer to attempt a chargeback as a matter of good 
practice, so long as the chargeback meets the technical criteria set out by the card scheme 
and would have a fair prospect of succeeding on its merits.
When Mr M rang NBS on 25 September 2019 he was asking for it to help reclaim the money 
he had paid T on his debit card. NBS interpreted this correctly as a situation where they 
should consider attempting a chargeback, and requested various pieces of information from 
Mr M, which they said he should send to a particular email address so they could take the 
chargeback forward. They also completed an iform which was meant to contain the 
relevant details of what had been discussed.
Mr M says he sent an email with the information requested. I would have thought that this is 
the sort of email which a person would retain in case of a dispute, as it related to an ongoing 
request for a refund of a not-insignificant sum of money. Mr M has not been able to prove 
this by providing a copy of the email, although he maintains that he sent it. I dont think I can 
assume that he did however.
This doesnt matter, because I think our investigator was right to say that NBS already had 
enough information on 25 September 2019 to meet the requirements of the card scheme 
(Visa) and therefore attempt a chargeback.
The Visa scheme rules say that in circumstances such as Mr Ms, where a service has been 
paid for and will not be received, the following is required:
Certification that services were not rendered by the expected date/time; and
A detailed description of the merchandise or services purchased, unless prohibited 
by applicable laws or regulations
NBS say the second requirement wasnt met, because the information recorded on the iform 
wasnt sufficient to satisfy it. They said it was necessary to have the due date of the flight, 
the time, and the origin and destination. Ive considered guidance issued by Visa in April 2020, which explained what would count as 
a detailed descriptionof the services purchased. While this guidance post-dates Mr Ms 
scenario, it was made clear that it did not represent a change in the rules and was just a 
clarification of how they should be interpreted.
For flights, Visa gave the following as an example of what it would consider a detailed 
description:
Flight from Dubai to New York
So it doesnt seem that Visa required a particularly large amount of information. Certainly, it 
required less than NBS had asked Mr M for.
NBS had recorded on its iform the following relevant information:
The name of the airline
The destination
The date of the flight
The price of the ticket
It didnt have the departure location of the flight, but Mr M had told NBS this on the phone 
call, so it had this information in its possession too. NBS was also aware that T was in 
liquidation and the flight would have been cancelled. And it could of course see the 
transaction to T on Mr Ms credit card account.
While I appreciate NBS will have its own procedures and it appears to have followed these, I 
dont think it was necessary to obtain more information than it already had from Mr M in 
order to attempt a chargeback. There was already enough information to allow T to identify 
the purchase in question, and what the problem was. It seems the purpose of asking Mr M 
for more information was so NBS could satisfy itself of the details rather than meet the 
requirements of the card scheme.
I think a chargeback would have had a good prospect of success. T had gone into liquidation 
and provided no further flights after that point. Its my view that NBS could, and should, have 
proceeded with a chargeback based on the information Mr M had provided on his phone call 
of 25 September 2019.
Customer service
I dont propose to go into great detail about the customer service issues Mr M has 
complained about, but I will comment briefly. 
Its unfortunate if Mr M was waiting for a long time on the phone, and I agree security 
procedures can be inconvenient at times. But I note Mr Ms initial enquiries came when 
credit card issuers were receiving large numbers of calls from unhappy customers of T, and 
his later calls occurred in the early months of the COVID-19 pandemic when financial 
institutions were adapting to, and clearing backlogs caused by, a sudden shift in working 
practices. So Im not surprised if waiting times were longer than usual.
With security procedures there is always a trade-off between security and convenience. 
While it is inconvenient to have to answer security questions, and the procedures can seem 
inflexible at times, they are in place to prevent unauthorised access to accounts. I have no criticism of how NBS handled the matter of security.
On the other hand, there were some failings by NBS. They contacted Mr M a few times by 
text when he had asked them not to. He was also promised more than once that someone 
would call him back and this didnt happen, meaning he had to call in again, and was given 
inaccurate information at times. This clearly caused him some inconvenience, annoyance 
and frustration, which I think came across in some of his interactions with NBS staff. NBS 
has now agreed it will pay a total of £150 compensation. I think this fair in the circumstances 
and I wont be increasing this award.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Nationwide 
Building Society to take the following actions:
Treat Mr M as though it had processed a successful chargeback on 25 September 
2019 for the disputed payment to T. This means it should refund him £614.99 and 
pay 8% simple interest per year* on this amount, calculated from 25 September 2019 
to the date of the refund.
Pay Mr M £150 compensation (minus any amount it has already paid).  
*If Nationwide Building Society considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman