DRN-1676105
The complaint
Mr Y complains that FCE Bank PLC refused to let him reject a car which had been 
misrepresented.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr Y acquired a new car costing £22,700 funded by a deposit of £6,000 
a deposit allowance of £1,000 and the balance by hire purchases finance.  Mr Y test drove a 
car and ordered a new one on the basis it would be the same as the one he drove. Shortly 
after picking it up he noticed it didnt have paddle shift gear controls. He contacted the dealer 
and he was passed on to FCE.
FCE rejected his complaint and said he hadnt specifically asked for paddle shift controls and 
as such it didnt think the car had been mis-sold. The complaint was brought to this service 
where it was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld. 
He explained that a misrepresentation is a false statement of fact upon which a consumer 
relies and is induced into acting upon it. He said Mr Y acquired the vehicle through a hire 
purchase agreement and under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  as the 
provider of finance and supplier of the vehicle under this agreement  FCE is equally 
responsible for the dealerships misrepresentations about the car to a consumer.
He noted that FCE didnt uphold the complaint because there was insufficient evidence of 
wrongdoing in the conversations before the sale of the vehicle, also known as antecedent 
negotiations under Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. He went on to say that 
where evidence is unclear or incomplete  as some of it is here  he must make his 
assessment on the balance of probabilities taking into account all the available evidence.
He said the key to the complaint was what was meant by like-for-like. FCE had accepted 
Mr Y had asked for a like-for-like model, but it didnt think that this meant it had to be same 
specification. Our investigator thought it unreasonable to expect a consumer to detail each 
item on the car when they have made a simple request that it be like for like.
He recommended that Mr Y be allowed to reject the car. FCE didnt respond and some three 
months have elapsed and I consider it reasonable to issue a final decision. Mr Y accepted 
the decision but added additional information. He explained that he used the car and others 
on track days and a paddle shift was important to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A misrepresentation is when a false statement of fact has been made; and this false 
statement induces a customer to buy the goods. In this case Mr Y asked for car which was 
identical to the one he test drove. Although I wasnt party to the discussions that took place it 
is accepted by all that the car he ordered was to be the same as one he drove. I understand that the manufacturer discontinued paddle shift controls on this model and so 
the car which was sold to Mr Y was different to the one he test drove. I would expect the 
dealer to be aware of this change and to have brought it to the attention of Mr Y. Given it is 
accepted that he asked for a car which was identical to the one he drove I consider it was 
incumbent on the dealer to have brought that to his attention.
I am satisfied there was a misrepresentation in that the dealer said they would supply an 
identical car and this induced Mr Y to enter into the agreement. The paddle shift controls 
were important to him and that is evidenced by his immediate complaint. He has explained 
why they mattered and I consider it reasonable for him to have expected that this feature be 
present on the model he acquired. 
I appreciate the argument put forward by FCE that Mr Y didnt specifically mention the 
paddle shift when ordering the car, but a car is a complicated piece of machinery with many 
variables.  It isnt reasonable to expect the consumer to detail each of these when they have 
agreed with the dealer that the car they want is like for like with the model which they had 
tested. I think the onus was on the dealer to say I cannot supply that and to allow the 
consumer to make an informed decision.
Putting things right
I consider the car was misrepresented and Mr Y should be allowed to reject it. He has had 
the use of it and it is right that he pay for that use so I dont consider his monthly payments 
should be refunded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct FCE Bank PLC to:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr Y,
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay,
Refund premiums from the date of collection if any,
Refund the deposit of £6,200 plus interest at 8% simple or return the exchanged 
vehicle and £200 cash deposit plus interest at 8% simple;
Remove the agreement from Mr Ys credit file, and
Pay Mr Y £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman