DRN-3780582
The complaint
Miss U says Next Retail Limited (Next) irresponsibly lent to her. She has requested that 
the interest and late payment charges she paid on the account she had be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account provided by Next to Miss U. The 
account was opened in October 2012 with Miss U being given an initial credit limit of £150. 
This limit was increased several times reaching, at its height, a credit limit of £5,000 in 
May 2015.
Miss U says Next ought not to have allowed her to open the account with its opening credit 
and then gone on to increase her credit limit, given her financial history.  
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Us complaint and thought that Next ought to have 
realised that Miss U wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit on the 
account by February 2015. 
As Next has disagreed with what they said the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I intend to partially uphold 
Miss Us complaint. I explain why below.
Next needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss U could 
afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Next should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought Next shouldnt have provided 
Miss U with any additional credit from February 2015. Next didnt agree with what our 
adjudicator said, pointing out that the Ms Us spending on the account didnt reach the 
level of the previous credit limit until late 2017. 
Our adjudicator thought that the early increases to the credit limit on the account were not 
examples of irresponsible lending. Both parties have seen that assessment and Miss U 
has not raised any objection to those findings. So, in the absence of any argument about 
that, Ill address the later increase that I think was an example of irresponsible lending. 
Before February 2015 there were times when Next increased the credit limits on the 
account. I dont think that the checks were always proportionate at those times. But I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to think that better enquiries would have caused Next to 
think the initial credit limit or the credit increases before February 2015 were unaffordable. 
The account activity history before January 2014 is no longer available. So I cant 
comment on the way Miss U was managing her account then. And since Miss U hasnt 
been able to provide us with information about her financial situation covering the period 
she had the account, I cant comment on how sustainable or otherwise the earlier credit 
limit increases might have been and whether Next ought to have realised much sooner 
that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. But I do agree with our 
adjudicator that the credit limit increase from £354 up to £1,000 in February 2015 ought 
not to have been granted. I will explain why. 
Throughout the life of the account but particularly before the account went into arrears, there 
were times when Next increased the credit limits on the account. But there were also times 
when the credit limit was reduced. I think there was a pattern of lending that ought to have 
put Next on notice that putting up the credit limit in February 2015 was unsustainable as 
Miss U would not have been able afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable 
manner.
Like our adjudicator, having reviewed the available account history, Ive seen that in the 
months immediately prior to the February 2015 increase, between August and December 
2014, Miss Us credit limit was reduced from the previous credit limit of £3,000 several times. 
This included an increase in September 2014 from the previously-reduced limit (from £506 to 
£750) but in the following three months the limit first went down to £386 and then £350 and 
was then very slightly increased to £354. Ive also seen that in January 2015 the account 
was briefly suspended due to two missed payment that Miss U made within a few days. 
I understand and appreciate the points that Next have made in response to our adjudicators 
view. But the question I need to ask myself is whether Next acted appropriately and proportionately in granting a significantly large credit limit in these circumstances. Having 
already reduced Miss Us credit limit due to concerns about her financial situation, I think 
there was a real risk that she was beginning to struggle and the missed payments further 
support that. So I agree that Next shouldnt have granted another credit limit increase, 
particularly one of that size, given the uncertainties about Miss Us ability to manage it 
without getting into further difficulty. And whilst Miss U went on to reduce the total balance of 
the account and her utilisation of the available credit was low in the following months, I dont 
think that alters the position that the credit limit ought not to have been raised to £1,000. I 
think there was a real possibility that Miss U would have found it challenging to repay a 
balance at that level, whilst at the same time having to meet her daily living expenses and 
any other committed expenditure. I accept that Miss U didnt increase her balance beyond 
the previous limit of £354 until December 2017, but the position remains that I think she lost 
out financially after that as a result of the increase in February 2015 and subsequent credit 
limit increases. 
It follows that I think that Miss U lost out because Next provided her with further credit from 
February 2015 onwards. Next should therefore put things right.
Putting things right  what Next needs to do
Rework Miss Us account to ensure that from 15 February 2015 onwards 
interest is only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £354, including 
any buy now pay later interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to 
reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. All 
late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made Next should contact Miss U to arrange an affordable repayment 
plan for these accounts. Once Miss U has repaid the outstanding balance, it 
should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Us credit file from 
15 February 2015 onwards for each account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss U, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. Next should also remove any adverse information from Miss Us credit 
file from 15 February 2015 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Next to take off tax from this interest. Next must give 
Miss U a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I am partially upholding Miss Us complaint. Next Retail Limited 
should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2023 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman