DRN-3306237
The complaint
Miss K complains about how Studio Retail Limited have administered her account with it.
What happened
Miss Ks complaint centres on how Studio Retail have handled her account. She says errors 
by Studio Retail have led to a default being unfairly recorded; which has in turn led to further 
distress and inconvenience. Miss Ks recent submissions explain Studio Retails actions 
have negatively impacted her credit file; resulting in a mortgage application being declined.
Our investigator initially looked into Miss Ks complaint and set out a detailed timeline of 
events to this complaint which both parties have had sight of. So for conciseness I wont 
repeat it here. However the pertinent facts not in dispute are:
Studio Retail defaulted Miss Ks account in October 2019;
In late October 2019, Miss K called Studio Retail after the default had been 
registered and attempted to settle the account in order to prevent the default. She 
was told it was too late; so she raised a complaint about this. She made a payment 
for the outstanding balance on this day too.
In January 2020 Miss K received communication from a third party who had been 
sold her debt; chasing her for further payment. Miss K informed this party she had 
already made the relevant payment. Miss K provided evidence to the third party to 
demonstrate the money had been paid.
The third party debt owner did not received the relevant payment from Studio Retail 
until May 2020.  The account was put on hold pending this.
Miss K contacted our service in August 2021 to complain there were still negative 
markers relating to this account on her credit file.
Our investigator felt that Studio Retails actions had not be in line with what he would expect; 
and recommended it pay Miss K £200 compensation to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience that had been caused. This payment was to reflect poor communication and 
some administrative failings after Miss K had settled the debt; and being contacted by the 
third-party debt purchaser. Miss K also highlighted that her credit file had not been updated 
correctly. Our investigator noted that Studio Retail had applied to remove any negative 
information on Miss Ks credit file as the relevant debt had since been settled. He explained 
this could take some weeks to action.
Significantly our investigator highlighted that we could not consider whether Studio Retail 
had correctly applied the default on Miss Ks account. This is because he noted that Miss K 
had previously complained to Studio Retail and our service about this issue. Our service had 
explained to Miss K previously under a separate complaint reference, that we could not 
consider the merits of this complaint as she had referred the complaint to our service too 
late. 
Miss K remained unhappy with the outcome our investigator had reached. She maintained 
Studio Retails actions had caused significant distress and inconvenience, including her 
recent mortgage application being declined.    
Studio Retail agreed with our investigators recommendations. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied that this complaint should be upheld in line with our 
investigators recommendations. That is to say Im satisfied the recommended £200 distress 
and inconvenience payment is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of our complaint.
I think the important thing to note here is that Miss Ks complaint in essence still centres on 
the fairness of Studio Retails registration of the default on her account. As has been 
explained to her, Im unable to comment on this aspect of her complaint. That is because it 
has been considered and resolved under a separate complaint reference with our service. I 
hope Miss K understands why Ive therefore not considered this when making my final 
decision.
With that being said Ive considered all of Studio Retails actions after this event. And to that 
extent I agree with our investigator that Studio Retail have made errors in the administration 
of Miss Ks account. 
It is clear that Studio Retail couldve acted better in the handling of the passing the relevant 
payment to the third-party debt owner. Whilst Studio Retail has explained that these 
payments do take time to transfer; Im satisfied that considering Miss K made the necessary 
payment in October 2019; it wasnt reasonable for an outstanding balance to be passed on 
some five months later in May 2020. This delay resulted in Miss K being contacted by the 
third party and chased for a debt that she had already settled. I can understand how and 
why this would cause her distress and inconvenience. I can also see there was poor 
customer service and conflicting information from Studio Retail around this payment; which I 
dont think helped matters and caused Miss K further distress and inconvenience. 
There was also a delay in Studio Retail amending Miss Ks credit file to reflect the fact that 
the account had been settled and issued the correct satisfied date. This was not done at the 
correct time; and was only corrected once Miss K had highlighted the error. Studio Retail has 
confirmed it has applied to the relevant credit reference agencies to have this corrected. 
So considering the above Im satisfied Studio Retails actions have caused Miss K distress 
and inconvenience. As such it should make a payment to recognise this. 
Miss Ks recent submissions have also included her concerns that Studio Retails errors have 
led to a recent mortgage application being declined. Whilst I sympathise with Miss Ks point 
of view; Ive not been provided with any further information from her which clearly 
demonstrates that the markers recorded by Studio Retail were the reason her mortgage 
application was declined. As has been explained to Miss K, I need to be satisfied that her 
recent mortgage application being declined was because of Studio Retail actions alone; and 
not other potential factors. 
In any event; as Im also unable to comment on the merits of the default; it is unlikely that I 
could make any further finding in relation to this aspect of her complaint even if further 
information were to be presented.So whilst I understand Miss K will be disappointed with my final decision; I hope my 
reasoning is clearly set out. 
Putting things right
As mentioned above Im satisfied Studio Retails actions have caused Miss K to suffer 
distress and inconvenience. Im satisfied that it has made repeated small errors that have 
caused Miss K a reasonable degree of distress and inconvenience. As such, Im satisfied an 
award of £200 is appropriate. Therefore, in order to resolve this complaint, I require              
Studio Retail Limited to pay Miss K £200.
Studio Retail Limited has confirmed to our service that it has applied to update Miss Ks 
credit file to reflect the correct status of her account with it. However, if it has not yet done so 
it must also do this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman