The complaint
Mr H complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) damaged his vehicle after recovering 
it under the terms of his breakdown policy
All references to IPA include its agents.
What happened
IPA recovered Mr Hs car after it broke down on the motorway because of a problem with his 
engine. It took the car to a depot and returned it to Mr H the next day.
A couple of weeks later, Mr H repaired the cars engine on his driveway. When he attempted 
to drive it, he found there was a problem with the steering. He drove it slowly to a garage 
who said parts relating to the steering system were severely bent. They quoted Mr H £170 
for the repairs.
Mr H returned the vehicle to his home and asked another mechanic to repair it. The 
mechanic noticed some other damage to the vehicle and gave his opinion that it was likely to 
have been caused by the car falling off the recovery transporter. 
Mr H complained to IPA. He estimated the repair costs to be around £200 to £300, which 
was more than the value of the car. He said he wanted IPA to pay for the repairs or the cost 
of a hire car for a few months as he was planning to leave the country.
IPA said it thought the damage was extremely unlikely to have been caused by its recovery 
service. So, Mr H brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs concerns but didn't think his complaint should be upheld. 
She didn't think there was enough evidence for her to conclude that the damage was caused 
by IPA.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators opinion. So, his complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
The relevant industry rules require IPA to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of Mr H. 
DRN-1951346I dont doubt that there was an issue with Mr Hs steering system and parts were damaged. 
Im not a mechanic or an engineer, but I dont need to be to decide on this case. My role isn't 
to determine how Mr Hs steering system was damaged  its to consider if IPA has acted 
fairly. To uphold Mr Hs complaint, Id need to be persuaded that the damage to Mr Hs car 
was likely to have been caused by IPA.
Mr H has provided a document from his local garage to show that a track rod end and inner 
tie rod were severely bent when they inspected it. The garage has also quoted for "advised 
alignment". But the garage hasn't said how the damage was likely to have been caused. And 
the date of inspection was around two weeks after IPA returned Mr Hs vehicle to him. So, I 
dont think this is enough to show me that IPA caused the damage.
Mr H has also provided a letter from the mechanic who repaired his car. This says he 
concluded that the vehicle had fallen off the back of the recovery transporter, probably while 
loading/unloading. It says in his opinion its unlikely the car had been damaged before it was 
recovered as when he tested the vehicle, it was undriveable and the breakdown recovery 
was for something totally unrelated. But the letter isn't on headed paper and doesn't appear 
to be from a garage. While Ive considered this information, I havent given it as much weight 
as I might to an independent motor engineers report.  
IPA says it wasn't responsible for the damage to Mr Hs vehicle. It was front suspended and 
towed to the depot, which is a common method of recovery. It was returned on a flatbed 
recovery truck. The car was around 17 years old and wasn't well maintained. Its provided a 
copy of the recovery report which shows there was damage to the front, back and wheels of 
the car when it was picked up.  
Id like to reassure Mr H that Ive considered all the information hes provided, including the 
photographs hes sent us. I appreciate he feels that the damage to his steering system was 
likely to have been caused by IPA. He's told us he was able to drive it on the motorway 
without steering issues just before IPA picked it up. But IPA says it didn't do anything that is 
likely to have damaged Mr Hs vehicle. I cant see if there was existing damage to the 
steering system when the car was picked up. But I think recovery report supports what IPA 
has said about the condition of the car.
I know this will be disappointing to Mr H, but I havent seen strong enough evidence to 
persuade me that IPA is responsible for the damage. It follows that I havent concluded IPA 
has acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman