DRN-4351896
The complaint
Mr J complains about how AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA) handled a claim under his car 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr J had a motor insurance policy with AXA covering his car. He was involved in a non-fault 
collision in August 2022 and he made a claim from AXA.
AXA recovered his car to be assessed. The company who assessed the car, who Ill refer to 
as C, reported that the visible damage would cost £2,370.29 to fix.
AXA assessed the car as being beyond economical repair and wrote it off.
Mr J asked for details of why his car was deemed a write-off. He was sent a document 
stating that the hourly labour rate for repairs was £396. He wasnt happy about his car being 
written off, and the value AXA had offered for it, and he complained.
AXA increased its offer for the car from £1,920 to £2,756.93 and clarified that the labour rate 
wasnt correct  there had been an error in formatting and it actually was the total labour 
charge. 
Mr J retained the car. It was recorded as a category N write-off.
Mr J reported that the car had been damaged whilst in Cs care. He made a further 
complaint about that.
AXA considered both of his complaints. It said there was no evidence that C had caused the 
damage to the car, but it agreed to pay £10 for a broken mirror it accepted was broken by it. 
It paid £75 for Mr Js inconvenience, and then a further £100. This included a total of £50 for 
delays handling his complaint.
Mr J remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He asks that his car is 
removed from the write-off register. He wants AXAs procedures changing. He wants a 
written apology from AXA and C and compensation for his time.
Our investigator looked into his complaint and uphold it in part. She thought AXA should 
increase its valuation of the car by a further £254.32, but she also thought it had handled the 
claim in line with its terms and conditions. 
AXA agreed with the view, but Mr J didnt. He said he thought the car should cost less than 
£1,000 to repair, and that his cars pre-accident value was about £5,000. He maintains that 
AXA shouldnt have written it off. Because he didnt agree, this complaint has been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the file that theres been considerable post-view correspondence with Mr J. 
Id like to assure him that I have read all of the file, but I wont be referring to all of it in this 
decision. Instead I want to focus on the main points of his complaint which is in line with the 
informal nature of this services approach.
At the centre of Mr Js complaint is that he wants AXA to change its procedures and that he 
feels fraud has been carried out. Were not the regulator. We cant ask or require a business 
to change its practices and procedures or investigate allegations of fraud as responsibility for 
this falls under the Financial Conduct Authority.
What I am able to do is examine what happened in Mr Js claim and decide whether AXA 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr J. And in this case, I think AXAs actions were mostly 
fair. This means I will be upholding Mr Js complaint in part, and the part Im upholding 
relates to the revised valuation of his car. 
When AXA recovered Mr Js car it was taken to Cs premises where it was assessed. Under 
the terms of Mr Js policy with AXA, it is allowed to handle the claim as it wishes:
We will pay for loss of or damage to
1. Your car.
We may choose to replace them, to repair them or pay an amount equal to the loss 
or damage.
This type of clause allowing insurers to choose the method of settling the claim is common in 
the insurance industry and I think its use is fair here.
Its Mr Js complaint that his car was worth about £5,000 before the collision happened. This 
service has an established approach to vehicle valuations using trade guides. Ive looked at 
these and I can see that they give values as follows:
Company A £2,730 
Company B £3,118
Company C £3,476 
Company D £2,721. 
The average of the four trade guides values is £3,011.25, which is £254.32 over the amount 
AXA agreed to pay Mr J. So I think its fair that AXA increases its payment for the car by 
£254.32 and I can see it has agreed to this.
C sent AXA an estimate for repair of the car at about £2,370.29, against Mr Js estimate of 
less than £1,000. AXAs estimate was about 78% of the value of the car and thats why it 
decided his car was a write-off. 
Its not unusual for insurers to decide a vehicles uneconomical to repair once the repair 
costs reach around 60-70% of its pre-accident market value.
Its important that I say both AXAs and Mr Js estimates were just that  estimates. This 
means that further damage might have been found underlying the surface damage which 
would mean AXAs costs rise even further. AXA, and C, will base these estimates on many thousands of similar claims it has seen over many years and I think its fair that it can rely on 
them.
I know Mr J feels very strongly about this and questions why C, which also trades in car 
parts and as a breaker of cars, is allowed to assess cars when it may have an interest in 
writing them off. Again, Id point out that were not the regulator. AXAs actions are in line 
with many other insurers and I dont think its acted unfairly towards Mr J. 
C uses a system with is common across the marketplace and given the competitive nature of 
the car insurance marketplace, its likely that AXA would have chosen the most efficient 
approach to handling Mr Js damage. 
Mr J has demonstrated that he was able to find a lower cost alternative to repair his car, but 
AXA dont necessarily have the time or resources to carry out this exercise on all the claims 
its involved with as it has a responsibility to keep its costs low. 
Ive also thought about Mr Js request that the write-off marker is removed from his car. Put 
simply, Im not able to ask AXA to do this. AXA wrote off Mr Js car under the terms of its 
policy wording and I think its reasonably entitled to do this. AXA used category N, which 
means the car had non-structural damage and could be repaired.
I can understand why Mr J feels very strongly. He feels it would cost less than £1,000 to 
repair his car against a pre-accident market value he thinks was more than £5,000. But as 
Ive explained above, this services approach shows that his car was closer to £3,000 in 
value and the repairs proposed by AXA were about £2,370.
Taking everything into account, I think AXA has reasonably followed its terms and conditions 
in how it chose to handle Mr Js claim. So I think its actions have been fair.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct AXA Insurance UK plc to pay 
an additional £254.32 to Mr J in respect of the increased valuation of his car. If this amount 
has already been paid then it can be deducted.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman