DRN-3630378
The complaint
Mr I complains that his bank HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund him money 
he lost having become the victim of a scam.
Mr I is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr I 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr I saw an advertisement for an investment with a company called Intermarket 
systems (X) on Facebook. Mr I submitted his details and received a call back.
X explained an investment opportunity to Mr I and he was persuaded to take part. Mr I was 
told to download screen sharing software to his device and upload his identification 
documents. Mr I also downloaded a free messaging app which he used to communicate with 
X.
Mr I made the following payments via his Visa debit card to the cryptocurrency exchange 
Chipping Nort (CN) that were then forwarded to X. 
1. 11 February 2021 - £89.31
2. 19 February 2021 - £3,754.76
3. 25 February 2021 £1771.39
4. 11 March 2021 - £2,602.99
5. 11 March 2021 - £1,762.95
6. 12 March 2021 - £1,790.12
7. 15 March 2021 - £1,236.95
8. 15 March 2021 - £1,076.15
9. 15 March 2021 - £2,215.02
10. 17 March 2021 - £2,089.78
When Mr I attempted to make withdrawals from his investment, he was told he would need 
to make further deposits and was unable to recover any of the money he had sent as part of 
the scam.
Mr I explained that he thought advertisements displayed on Facebook could be relied upon 
to be genuine. He also said that HSBC should have noticed irregular activity on his account 
and stepped in to prevent the scam.
Shortly after Mr I fell victim to this scam, he searched online for help recovering his lost 
funds. He came across a business called T and H Consulting who he paid £1,000 to help 
him. Mr I says this was also a scam.
Our Investigator considered Mr Is complaint but didnt think it should be upheld, she thought 
the amounts of each transaction made by Mr I were low enough that they were unlikely to 
trigger HSBCs fraud prevention systems. The payments were also spread out over several 
weeks which helped disguise the scam. So, she didnt think it was unreasonable that HSBC 
didnt have concerns about the payments Mr I was making, or step in to prevent them from 
being processed.
Mr I disagreed, so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mr I and HSBC sets out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether HSBC should 
refund any of the money Mr I has lost because of this scam.
HSBC was unable to process a chargeback for the payments Mr I made in relation to this 
scam to CN.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr I was dealing with X, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr I didnt 
make the debit card payments to X directly, he paid a separate cryptocurrency exchange 
(CN). This is important because HSBC was only able to process chargeback claims against 
the merchant he paid (CN), not another party (such as X).
The service provided by CN would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mr Is payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, CN provided the service that was requested; 
that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mr I paid. As CN provided the 
requested service to Mr I any chargeback attempt would likely fail.
Mr I has accepted he authorised the payments into the scam, so the starting point here is 
that Mr I is responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do 
have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due 
diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether HSBC should have reasonably been aware of the scam and 
stepped in to prevent the payments Mr I was making.
Mr I made an initial payment to CN of less than £100 on 11 February 2021. This was a 
relatively small amount. So even though he was making a payment to a business he had not 
previously paid I dont think its unreasonable that HSBCs fraud prevention systems werent triggered, and it didnt step in to stop the payment.
The next payment Mr I made was for £3,754.76. While this was a higher amount than Mr I 
would usually make payments for in general, it would not be reasonable for me to suggest 
HSBC should stop all larger payments made by its customers. This payment was made on 
19 February 2021, 8 days after Mr I first made a payment to CN. I dont think this one-off 
payment more than a week after the first payment would reasonably have triggered HSBCs 
fraud prevention systems either.
The remaining payments were made by Mr I to CN over the following few weeks for varying 
amounts under £3,000, building a history of paying a business Mr I appeared to trust. Most 
had at least two days between them meaning a pattern of payments was not established. 
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable that HSBCs fraud prevention systems did not pick 
up on the payments. So, I dont think HSBC missed an opportunity to step in and prevent the 
scam taking place, and I dont think its responsible for Mr Is loss.
The final payment made by Mr I of £1,000 to T and H Consulting was to help him recover the 
funds he had lost as part of the above scam. Mr I tells us he was in communication with the 
business and the police as part of the efforts to recover the funds. Once T and H Consulting 
had provided a service to Mr I it was explained that he would have to wait for the police to 
investigate the scam. 
T and H Consulting appear to be a legitimate business that have provided a service to Mr I. 
If Mr I feels he hasnt received the service he requested from it, he would need to contact it 
directly to resolve the matter before HSBC could look at any other way he may be able to 
recover the payment he made. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman