DRN-3720805
Complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded the money he lost to a scam.
Background
Mr H has accounts with Lloyds. In 2020, he established contact with an individual on social 
media who persuaded him to invest his money. His contact asked him to open an account 
with a third-party business. He made several transfers to this account over a period of 
around three weeks. The total value of these payments was just over £30,000. Its not 
entirely clear what happened after this point, except that Mr Hs funds left that third-party 
account and moved into a different account that was under the control of the scammer. 
When he later realised that he couldnt withdraw any of his funds, he recognised that he 
must have fallen victim to a scam.
He complained to Lloyds. Lloyds agreed that it hadnt handled things as it shouldve done. It 
said that, by the time Mr H made his fifth payment, it ought to have recognised that a pattern 
had emerged that indicated that he was at risk of financial harm due to fraud. If it had 
intervened at that point, it thought it couldve broken the spell that Mr H had been put under 
by the scammer and prevented him from losing more money. It didnt think, however, that it 
wouldve been justified in intervening prior to that point. It was the emergent pattern of 
payments that demonstrated that Mr H was at risk, not any single payment. It refunded 50% 
of the three final payments 
Mr H wasnt happy with the response he received from Lloyds. He referred a complaint to 
this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who thought that the offer Lloyds had made 
was a fair and reasonable one. She agreed that it wouldnt have been justified in intervening 
to question the earlier payments. 
She also concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Mr H to bear some responsibility for 
his losses. Although she didnt think shed been provided with a great deal of evidence as to 
how Mr H was persuaded to make the transfers or what kind of return hed been told to 
expect on his money, she thought the communications from the scammer lacked the kind of 
professionalism that would be expected to make a scam like this persuasive. In addition to 
that, Mr Hs version of events didnt suggest that he carried out any checks to ensure that he 
was dealing with a legitimate investment opportunity. 
Mr H disagreed with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the Investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons.
I dont dispute that Mr H has been the victim of a cynical fraud. But Im restricted to 
considering what Lloyds did or didnt do. While it is now known with the benefit of hindsight 
that Mr M had been targeted by a scam, I must consider at what point Lloyds ought to have 
recognised that risk. Mr H made seven payments in connection with the scam. Lloyds has 
agreed that it shouldve identified that risk and challenged the final three payments, rather 
than allowing them to be processed. I realise it will be disappointing to Mr H, but I dont think 
there wouldve been any reasonable basis for it to recognise that risk any earlier than that 
point.
The first payment was only £100. The second one was for £5,000 and was paid directly from 
his savings account, rather than being routed through his current account first as happened 
with the later payments. This was larger than the typical payments made from this account. 
However, its not uncommon for a saver to make a large single transfer if theyd been setting 
aside funds for a specific purpose. I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to have not 
identified the risk of fraud at that point.
By the time he made three payments in one day on 21 September, I think the risk that Mr H 
might have been targeted by scammers ought to have become clear. He went on to make 
two further payments a week later. It is from the point of that third payment on 21 September 
that Lloyds agrees it shouldve intervened. If it had done so, it wouldve minimised the money 
he lost to the scam. It has paid him a partial refund in recognition of that.
Ive also considered whether Mr H can be considered partially responsible for his losses. In 
doing so, Ive considered what the law says about contributory negligence but also borne in 
mind the fact that I must reach a decision based on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable. And having done so, Im satisfied that he should be considered partially 
responsible.
Mr H hasnt said a great deal about what the scammer said to him to persuade him this was 
an investment opportunity that was worth pursuing. The communications he had with the 
scammer were much more informal than would be expected if this were a genuine 
investment. He was also invited to participate by being contacted on a social media platform 
and had ongoing communications via a popular messaging app. Although I accept that 
legitimate firms do use social media platforms to be promote investment products, Mr H 
received an unsolicited communication from a private individual. I think he ought to have 
recognised that it was unlikely to be a legitimate investment opportunity given the way he 
was introduced to it. 
While I dont say any of this to downplay or diminish the impact this scam has had on Mr H, I 
think its fair and reasonable for him to be considered partially responsible for his losses here 
and that a 50% deduction is appropriate. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman