DRN-2662278
The complaint
Mrs N complains about the way in which her landlord insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc, has 
dealt with her claim for damage to her property by her tenants and from an escape of water.  
What happened
Mrs Ns property, which she lets out, suffered extensive damage and she made a claim to 
AXA in January 2018. AXA sent loss adjusters to assess the damage and compile a 
schedule of repair work required.
Mrs N complained to AXA about its handling of her claim. Mrs N said she was suffering from 
health problems and AXA should have provided her with more help. Primarily, she wasnt 
happy with the amount of cash settlements AXA had offered or the cost of refitting items. 
She said AXA had offered £17,800 as cover for the kitchen, but its first survey was wrong, 
and other items need to be paid for. She said the survey stated there was no fault with the 
electrics, but this is a lie. Mrs N said AXA offered about £2,000 for her carpet and stolen 
items, but she has had a quote for like-for-like replacement of the carpets at about £8,000.
Mrs N said AXA paid £1,504 for her wardrobe which was stolen, whereas she had a quote 
for about £7,000 as it was solid oak. Mrs N said AXA told her it partially upheld her complaint 
but gave her nothing and so she didnt know what this meant. Mrs N also complained that 
AXA had sent another customers details with her correspondence. She said AXA had made 
many mistakes with its admin, including an incorrect address used for her. 
AXA said its offers were based on Mrs Ns estimates less items not covered by her policy. It 
paid her £24,813.94 including for items she hadnt shown to be within her claim. AXA said 
Mrs N had requested loss of rent, council tax and other costs, but it said its loss adjuster and 
surveyor stated although the damage was inconvenient the property wasnt uninhabitable 
and could have been rented out. AXA said the policy only covers loss of rent when the 
property is uninhabitable under a claim. AXA said Mrs Ns previous tenants had moved out 
and no others were arranged, and so there was no financial loss from the claim. 
AXA said it had sent a generic letter for another policyholder to Mrs N by accident, but none 
of her information was sent incorrectly. AXA paid £1,504 for Mrs Ns wardrobe, but said no 
damage to the hall, stairs or landing carpet or electrics had been found and werent included 
in the claim. AXA explained its offer for Mrs Ns kitchen and its 50% contribution for the units. 
AXA said it paid £926.04 for Mrs Ns door based on its contractors quotes, against her 
estimate for £1,550. But although it wasnt required under the policy it said it had increased 
its settlement to £1,550 in an attempt to resolve matters. AXA said it should have made its 
final offer of settlement to Mrs N a bit quicker and it paid her compensation of £150. It 
subsequently acknowledged further delays and paid Mrs N further compensation of £500.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said AXA paid for damage 
beyond that offered by Mrs N policy, which she had misunderstood. He said AXAs payment 
of £24,813.94 was fair as was its increased offer for her door and excesses were applied in 
line with the policy. He said theres nothing to show the damage occurred when the tenants 
left, or by a single insured event and the damage appeared to be due to poor maintenance.
The investigator said Mrs N hadnt provided anything about the cost of her wardrobe or that 
all the damage was due to an escape of water, or was accidental or malicious. And Mrs Ns 
policy didnt cover wear and tear and maintenance. He said there werent tenants to relocate 
and the property wasnt uninhabitable and so council tax and other costs werent covered. 
He said AXA and Mrs N had caused delay but mostly this was due to the dispute on what 
the policy covered. He said Mrs N hadnt made her property lettable while disputing her 
claim and as AXAs settlement was correct he couldnt hold AXA responsible for the delay.
The investigator said no further action was needed concerning the letter sent to Mrs N in 
error. He said AXAs compensation to Mrs N of £650 was fair and any further action by her 
should be against her tenants.
Mrs N disagreed with the investigator saying that her claim wasnt agreed, and AXA hasnt 
paid for everything it should have under her claim. Mrs N requested an ombudsman review 
her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs N has raised many issues with her claim, some of which are appropriate for her broker. I 
hope she doesnt consider it a discourtesy that I have concentrated on what I consider to be 
the main points of contention. Ive looked carefully at AXAs decisions and handling of Mrs 
Ns claim to see if it has acted in accordance with her policy and treated her fairly. Ive 
looked at reports and photos and the communications between the parties.
Mrs N is unhappy with the payments authorised by AXA for her claim. Payments made by 
AXA were explained in its letter to Mrs N 13 January 2020 and afterwards, as follows:
23 September 2019 - £400 compensation for complaint
16 December 2019 - £100 compensation for complaint
27 January 2020  £24,813.94 cash settlement for Buildings and Contents claim
21 February 2020 - £150 compensation for complaint
5 March 2020 - £623.96 increased cash settlement for Mrs Ns door.
I have seen from the records of the claim that Mrs N obtained estimates which were 
significantly higher than AXAs initial offer of settlement. The policy allows AXA to settle 
costs incurred for repairs and replacements at what it costs AXA and I think it was fair for it 
to do so. This is common to all policies and allows insurers to use their market position to 
reduce the costs of a claim.
The claim became stuck in a dispute between the parties about what should and shouldnt 
be covered. AXA had a survey carried out in October 2019 on which its final decisions on the 
claim were based. I have seen that AXA, in an attempt to prevent further delays, agreed to 
elements of the claim it said it wasnt required to meet. I have looked at the claim and it 
appears to me that some of the information sent in by Mrs N sets out what she was claiming 
for but doesnt explain why it should be met by AXA. This means AXA wasnt required to pay 
for all of things that it did, particularly those that appear to be due to wear and tear, and I 
think its unfortunate that this didnt lead to an agreement for the resolution of the claim as a 
whole.    All properties require maintenance from time to time but that isnt intended to fall within an 
insurance policy, that would be proper to a maintenance contract. An insurance policy 
covers specified one-off perils and is further distinguished from a maintenance contract by 
carrying exclusions for wear and tear and damage that happens gradually over time. It 
appears to me that some of the costs claimed by Mrs N fall within the category of 
maintenance and decoration which wouldnt be covered by the policy.
In order for a claim to be paid it is the policyholders responsibility to prove that a loss or 
damage occurred under one of the insured perils in the policy. I havent seen proof from Mrs 
N on all elements of her claim and so I think it was very fair of AXA to pay for things that 
hadnt been shown to be claimable under Mrs Ns policy. I hope Mrs N will understand that 
cover isnt available for everything she has claimed for. I havent seen anything to show that 
AXA should provide cover for the damage Mrs N has claimed that it hasnt already accepted. 
It follows that I cant fairly require AXA to make further payment on the claim than it has 
already.
The perils that Mrs N has claimed for under her policy are theft, escape of water, malicious 
damage and accidental damage. Each of these has an excess payment that is due from the 
policyholder when a claim is made and is set out within the policy. As far as I can see these 
have been applied properly by AXA to Mrs Ns claim.
I was sorry to learn about the stress the claim has caused Mrs N. I can see there were 
delays in dealing with the claim and these appear to be shared between AXA and Mrs N. I 
think the compensation of £650 AXA has paid Mrs N for the impact of delays it caused is fair 
in the circumstances. 
I realise Mrs N will be disappointed by this decision as she thinks parts of her claim remain 
unpaid. If she has any other expenses she thinks AXA should cover under the expenditure it 
has accepted she should send these to AXA. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman