DRN-3438868
The complaint
Mr H has complained that The Original Holloway Friendly Society limited, trading as 
Holloway Friendly, (Holloway) has unfairly declined his claim.
What happened
Mr H had a short-term income protection policy, underwritten by Holloway. He made a claim 
which Holloway declined as Mr H was receiving pay in lieu of notice and it said this qualified 
as earnings. 
Mr H complained and said Holloways wording was ambiguous and misleading as earnings 
was not defined in the policy. Unhappy with Holloways response to his complaint, Mr H 
referred his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Holloway had done anything wrong 
as it had fairly assessed and declined the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
And so his case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. I wont repeat everything in detail but will 
instead focus on what I consider to be key to my decision. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy confirms benefit will be reduced or not paid at all if earnings amount to more than 
60% of the maximum benefit allowed (60% of gross income). 
Mr H was receiving payment in lieu of notice and Holloway said this would be classed as 
earnings. I agree that payment in lieu of notice can reasonably be classed as earnings as 
this was money Mr H received from his employment. I dont think earnings in ambiguous 
although Holloway accepts that it could give better examples in its literature and include 
payment in lieu of notice as an example.
Having considered the terms of the policy, I dont think Holloway unfairly declined Mr Hs 
claim as his payment in lieu of notice meant he received earnings which amounted to more 
than the maximum benefit allowed.
The policy is designed to replace income when unable to work. As Mr H was still receiving 
an income from his employment when he made a claim, he didnt qualify for the benefit. And 
so I wont be asking Holloway to do anything.
Mr H said he wanted his premiums refunded if Holloway didnt accept his claim. But 
Holloway would have paid out any eligible claims whilst Mr H had his policy and took the risk 
of doing so. Mr H would have to be working to be eligible and Holloway made this clear. Mr 
B decided to keep his policy so that he had cover if he needed it. And so I cant fairly ask 
Holloway to refund his premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman