DRN-3518726
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as Cashplus 
Bank) unfairly provided him with an unaffordable iDraft facility.
Background
Mr S was provided with an iDraft facility with a credit limit of £500 in May 2018. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr S and Cashplus had told us. She thought that 
Cashplus shouldnt have provided the iDraft facility as it ought to have realised it was 
unaffordable. Cashplus disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im upholding Mr S complaint. Ill explain 
why in a bit more detail.
Cashplus needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Cashplus needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr S 
could afford to repay before providing him with his iDraft facility. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Mr S was provided with an iDraft facility with a credit limit of £500. And as this was a 
revolving credit facility Cashplus was required to understand whether Mr S could repay £500 
within a reasonable period of time. I understand that Mr S was asked about his income and I 
understand that Cashplus records suggest that he may have declared an annual income of 
around £22,400.00. Cashplus has also indicated that it carried out a credit check on Mr S. 
This was Mr S first interest bearing loan with Mr S. And its fair to say that Mr S was being 
asked to make relatively low monthly payments over a reasonable period of time. In these 
circumstances, it could be argued that a more lighter touch check could have been 
proportionate. This is especially as Cashplus enquiries into Mr S circumstances suggested 
that he was employed and earning around £22,400.00 a year. That said, Im also mindful 
that any credit check Cashplus carried out is more likely than not to have shown that Mr S 
already had a significant number of creditors at this time and even had a number of short-
term loans.  
So even though Mr S was being provided with a facility with a relatively low credit limit and 
was required to repay it within a reasonable period of time rather than all in one go, the 
extent and scope of Mr S existing indebtedness leads me to think that Cashplus needed to 
find out more about Mr S expenditure before providing credit to him. Having looked at the 
information Mr S has provided about his circumstances at the time, Im satisfied that once 
his regular expenditure was deducted from his income, he didnt have enough left over to 
sustainably repay his iDraft facility. 
As this is the case, I find that Cashplus failed to carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before providing this facility and if it had carried out such checks it would have seen 
that the iDraft facility it provided to Mr S was unaffordable. 
Mr S went on to pay interest and charges on a facility that he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that he lost out as a result of having Cashplus unfairly providing him 
with his iDraft facility. And Im satisfied that Cashplus needs to put things right.   
Fair compensation  what Cashplus needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having carefully considered everything, I think it is fair and reasonable for Cashplus to put 
things right for Mr S in the following way:
Reworking Mr S iDraft balance to ensure that all interest, fees and charges 
added from the outset are removed; and
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the iDraft facility once these adjustments 
have been made Cashplus should contact Mr S to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan, Mr S is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Cashplus to 
reach a suitable agreement for this. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance on Mr S iDraft facility, then any extra should be 
treated as overpayments and returned to Mr B along with 8% simple interest on 
the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. If no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been 
made, then Cashplus should remove all adverse information from Mr S credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashplus to take off tax from this interest. Cashplus 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr S complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman