DRN-3891346
The complaint
Mrs J has complained about Harris Balcombe LLP. She isnt happy with her appointed loss 
assessor after a fire at her property.
For ease of reading any reference to Harris Balcombe includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs J made a claim under her building insurance policy after a fire at her property. However, 
the claim was dealt with by her appointed loss assessor  Harris Balcombe. But she wasnt 
happy about the way the claim was dealt with. So, she complained to Harris Balcombe and 
then this Service about a number of things including the quality of repairs; replacement items 
installed; damage to a settee; that she didnt receive guarantees/ certificates and information 
about the completed works. And Mrs J complained about the way it handled her concerns 
generally and the solutions it offered. 
Mrs J wants Harris Balcombe to provide a cash settlement to allow her to appoint her own 
workmen and contractors to rectify the outstanding issues. And she says she has been 
distressed and inconvenienced as a result of Harris Balcombes actions.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs J and partly upheld her complaint. She thought 
that Harris Balcombe should undertake a number of further steps to put things right for Mrs J 
including arranging for the manufacturer to review possible damage to her front door, to 
inspect her windows (which it replaced) and rectify any issues, to rectify or replace kitchen 
units as they havent been repaired to a reasonable standard, to repair or replace a settee 
that was damaged while in storage, to provide a breakdown of the works undertaken, and to 
pay Mrs J £200 compensation for not looking into her concerns about the quality of its 
repairs and the errors made. 
Harris Balcombe accepted the position outlined but Mrs J didnt and asked for an 
Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a fair degree of sympathy for Mrs J and I can understand why she wants another 
company to undertake any further work or to get a cash-in-lieu settlement. But generally, this 
Service takes the approach that it is only fair and reasonable for the company that undertook 
the work to be given the opportunity to put things right in the first instance, so I think this 
seems a fair way forward in this case.
Ive considered Mrs Js representations and those of Harris Balcombe in forming my view. It 
is important to point out that Ive read and taken into account all of the information provided 
by both parties, in reaching my decision. However, I may not reflect something thats been 
said in this decision and its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant 
to the crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
Mrs J has outlined her replacement front door is chipped, dented, and the frame is damaged. 
And that there are other issues, and she feels the quality isnt to the standard she had 
before. Mrs J has highlighted that the door doesnt close properly, and the doorframe and 
doorsill need refitting. But Harris Balcombe maintain Mrs J agreed the quality of the front 
door that was fitted and have provided photos showing the door wasnt damaged after fitting 
in any way. It suggests a contractor employed by Mrs J in relation to her flooring may have 
caused the damage. However, it has agreed, as a gesture of good will, for the door 
manufacturer to reattend and see if they can rectify the issues identified. And Harris 
Balcombe will look to consider changing door furnishings in line with Mrs Js request within 
reason.
Given this, I think Harris Balcombe have acted fairly here in suggesting a reasonable 
solution to the difficulties Mrs J has faced with her front door. I agree with our investigator 
that I havent seen any evidence that the door isnt of a reasonable standard and so I think 
this is a fair resolution. 
Mrs J has also raised questions about the garage door as she doesnt feel it is of the same 
quality as the door she had before the fire. While Harris Balcombe have said that the 
replacement door was agreed by Mrs J before it was ordered. Similar to the front door, Ive 
not been provided with any independent evidence to support Mrs Js position here so I cant 
say Harris Balcombe has acted unreasonably here. 
I note Mrs J has also questioned the quality of her replacement windows, questioning the 
silicone and the windowsills. Harris Balcombe has said it didnt replace the silicone around 
the frames in one of the bedrooms, but the schedule of works makes clear what windows 
were replaced. Our investigator suggested that Harris Balcombe should inspect the windows 
it replaced and rectify any issues identified. I think this feels fair and obviously it wouldnt be 
fair to ask Harris Balcombe to replace windows it didnt work on and wasnt responsible for. 
Turning to the damage to Mrs Js kitchen it would appear, despite some rectification work by 
Harris Balcombes agent, that some damage remains. I know Mrs J would like a full new 
kitchen, but I think it would be fair, and in line with our general approach, for Harris 
Balcombe to look to ensure things are put right first. 
So, I agree it would be fair for Harris Balcombe to carry out further rectification work to rectify 
the damage outlined. If for any reason that isnt possible then it seems fair for Mrs J to get 
replacement units. 
In relation to the damage sustained to Mrs Js settee while it was in storage. Harris 
Balcombe has agreed to look at the damage with an eye on repairing the damage caused 
and if for any reason this isnt successful it should provide a like for like replacement. Again, 
I think this feels fair.
I understand that Mrs J hasnt been provided with the relevant certificates and guarantees 
for all of the work undertaken in relation to the electrics, alarm, windows, front door, garage 
door and her boiler. Harris Balcombe have said these have already been provided but it is 
only fair for it to resend these for completeness. And it is only fair for Mrs J to gain a 
breakdown of the work undertaken to date so I agree that Harris Balcombe should provide a 
breakdown of the schedule of works as well. I know Mrs J isnt happy about allowing Harris Balcombe to look to rectify any problems she 
has faced as she feels a fresh contractor of her own choice should be used. Mrs J highlights 
she was given assurances all the work was completed before she returned to the property 
and that she had to bring her complaint about all of this to this Service. While I can 
understand her position and why she has lost faith, but I think its only fair, and in line with 
this Services general approach, that Harris Balcombe should be allowed to rectify the issues 
identified above. Indeed, I note it has agreed to undertake work and further investigation in 
relation to issues that it doesnt feel it is responsible for, so I think it has acted fairly in trying 
to put things right now, even if there were failings before. 
Finally, I agree Harris Balcombe couldve handled Mrs Js claim and concerns better, 
especially after the second repairing agent attended. And so, I agree that it should pay £200 
compensation for the clear trouble and upset caused here.  
Given all of this, and Harris Balcombes agreement to undertake the additional work and 
checks, I think this is a fair and reasonable way to advance Mrs Js complaint. And that she 
should be paid £200 compensation.  
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im upholding this complaint. I require Harris 
Balcombe LLP to 
Carry out further rectification work to the damaged kitchen and if for any reason this 
isnt possible to replace any units on a like for like basis;
Inspect the windows that it did replace and rectify any issues identified;
Get the front door manufacturer to reattend and see if they can rectify the issues 
identified and look to change the door furnishings as a gesture of goodwill; 
Look to repair the damage caused to Mrs Js settee and look to replace it if this isnt 
possible;
Provide Mrs J with copies of all relevant guarantees and certificates for all work 
undertaken; 
Provide a full breakdown of the schedule of works; and
Pay £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman