DRN-1554027
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the service TSB Bank plc - TSB has provided in relation to his 
current account.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not be repeating them 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will
explain why.
I've taken into account Mr T's detailed submissions about what happened at the time. I hope 
he doesn't take it as a discourtesy that I don't reply to every point he has made. The purpose 
of my decision is to explain my findings on the issues I consider key in the complaint.
I am sorry to hear the difficulties Mr T has had. And after reviewing a range of 
statements I can see that Mr T exceeded his arranged overdraft limit regularly since 
2016. And at times fees and charges were applied. TSB was entitled to apply 
charges as long as they were applied in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. I havent seen any evidence to suggest they were not applied fairly in this 
case. 
So, I have gone on to consider whether TSB acted positively and sympathetically 
when Mr T made it aware he was experiencing financial hardship - as it was obliged 
to do so in line with the lending code.
I can see that TSB on 6 December 2016 waived charges for Mr T and completed an 
income and expenditure report. The account was then referred to TSBs collections 
team and it was agreed that a control was to be added to the account to stop further 
charges debiting the account. 
In January 2017 Mr Ts account was £2,967.58 overdrawn and he had exceeded his 
agreed overdraft limit. Because of this TSB withdrew Mr Ts overdraft facility and an 
interest free repayment plan was agreed for three months. Mr T agreed to pay £10 
per month to reduce the outstanding balance on the account.
During this period, I can see that Mr T made more credits than required which 
reduced the overdraft to £2,939.55 and he was operating within the agreed limit. 
So, I am satisfied that this demonstrated TSB acted positively and sympathetically to 
Mr Ts circumstances during a period when Mr T was struggling to operate his 
account within the agreed limit. Some charges which had been applied correctly had 
been refunded and a payment plan was put in place, in line with the lending code.
I appreciate that Mr T continued to contact TSB and visit the branch as he was still 
experiencing financial hardship. As such Mr T wanted further payment plans where 
the interest would be frozen to be agreed. But TSB said it wouldnt agree to this as 
Mr T was now operating within his overdraft limit, which I feel is fair as Mr T had the 
benefit of the facility. 
TSB did offer Mr T an alternative option of removing the overdraft facility and sending 
the account to its collections department. But Mr T didnt want this option. 
In September 2017, Mr Ts account activity changed, and further credits were made 
to the account. I appreciate that Mr T has said that some of the credits made to the 
account was money that didnt belong to him. But as money was now crediting the 
account, it appeared Mr T was financially in stronger position, so I dont think its 
reasonable to say TSB would have been aware that Mr T was still experiencing 
financial hardship at this point.
In 2018 when Mr T began to experience further difficulty, his account became 
overdrawn and no further credits were made. A further payment plan was agreed 
where Mr T would pay £100 per month and interest was frozen. Which again is in line 
with the lending code. But as no payments were made, the plans were unfortunately 
broken. So, I cant say that TSB didnt respond in a positive or sympathetic way to Mr 
Ts circumstances.
As Mr T didnt adhere to the payment plan agreed, his account was sent to 
recoveries. I have seen evidence to show letters that were sent from TSBs 
recoveries department to Mr T - Including an enforcement notice, a formal demand 
and a final reminder on 17 August 2018. These letters made Mr T aware of the 
potential of the account closing and being passed on to a third-party company if the 
payments were not made.
I have considered the point Mr T has made about visiting his branch and asking for 
his address to be changed on its systems. He says he didnt receive the letters TSB 
sent but he did receive a generic letter from TSB to his new address. As such, Mr T 
feels TSB did have his new address on file.
While I dont doubt Mr Ts version of events, he hasnt been able to provide the 
generic letter he received to his new address and I cant see anything on TSBs 
contact notes to say a discussion took place regarding Mr Ts request to change his 
address. As such, I cant be certain of the event that took place. I have checked the 
address where the letters were sent, and I am satisfied it matched the address TSB 
held for Mr T.
In any event, Mr T would have, or ought to have been aware his account was 
overdrawn. Its his responsibility to ensure the account is ran in line with the terms 
and conditions. So, given the fact he was overdrawn and not making any payments 
into the account, I think it is reasonable to suggest Mr T would have been aware of 
the likely consequences and he could have contacted TSB for further assistance. 
I understand that Mr T is unhappy he is unable to use the account and he wants the 
default to be removed from his credit file. But I am satisfied TSB has followed the 
correct steps and it has a duty to ensure it is reporting accurate information to credit 
reference agencies.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman