DRN-3147536
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line, has declined a claim
she made on the travel insurance section of her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs W paid for a holiday for herself and her husband  they were due to travel abroad on 
22 March 2020 for a week. On 14 March 2020 the country Mrs W was due to visit closed 
all non-essential public spaces due to the impact of Covid-19 and on 17 March 2020 the 
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad.
The travel provider cancelled the holiday and said that it was unable to refund Mrs Ws 
costs, which were approximately £4000.
Mrs W claimed on the travel insurance section of her home insurance policy but UKI 
declined the claim on the basis that the costs were recoverable from the travel provider. 
Mrs W provided letters from the provider saying that they couldnt refund the money. UKI 
maintained their decision to decline the claim so Mrs W complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mrs Ws complaint. He didnt 
think UKI had fairly declined the claim as, based on the booking terms and conditions,
Mrs W wasnt entitled to a refund. So, he thought that Mrs Ws costs were now 
irrecoverable and that it wasnt fair to ask Mrs W to recover her costs from the provider, or 
using UKIs legal assistance line (which was also included in her home insurance policy).
UKI didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, they 
said that the holiday was a package and that there were various routes by which Mrs W 
could recover her losses, including by utilising legal expenses cover on the policy and 
using a travel industry arbitration scheme.
In October 2021 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mrs Ws complaint and direct UKI to settle the claim in line with the remaining policy terms 
and conditions. In summary, I said: 
I was satisfied that there was an insured event under the policy
Id expect Mrs W to take reasonable steps to recover her losses from elsewhere 
and I was satisfied that she had done so in the circumstances of this case 
I wasnt persuaded that it was in Mrs Ws best interests to claim on the legal 
expenses section of the policy, bearing in mind the relevant regulatory guidance 
and the policy terms 
It was open to UKI to recover their losses from the travel provider directly 
I didnt consider it fair and reasonable for Mrs W to have to seek to claim her losses 
via a travel industry arbitration scheme. The available information about the 
relevant scheme suggested that there wasnt a real or viable opportunity for Mrs W 
to recover her losses via the relevant scheme. 
Mrs W and UKI both accepted my provisional decision and didnt have any further 
comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both UKI and Mrs W accepted my provisional decision, theres no reason for me to reach 
a different conclusion. For the reasons Ive outlined above, and in my provisional decision, 
Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint. I remain satisfied that it is fair and reasonable for UKI to 
settle the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.  
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint and direct UKI to settle the claim, subject to the remaining policy 
terms and limits. They should also pay 8% simple interest from the date Mrs Ws claim 
was rejected to the date of settlement.
If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint about U K Insurance Limited and direct it to put things right 
in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman