DRN-3239457
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold him a fee-paying Ultimate 
Reward Current Account (URCA) in July 2011.
Mr P has given a number of reasons why he says the account was mis-sold. These include 
that he was told he needed the URCA to get/increase his overdraft. Mr P says the benefits of 
the account were glossed over and says he was unaware of what the benefits of the 
account actually were.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think that the URCA had 
been mis-sold. Mr P disagreed with adjudicators assessment. So the matter was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I would also like to point out that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, as is the case here, I have to decide what I 
think was most likely to have happened, based on all the evidence that is available.
Having considered everything that has been provided, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold. I 
will explain why.
Mr P says that he was told that he had to get an URCA in order to increase/maintain his 
overdraft. However, from what Halifax has provided, I cant see that Mr P had an arranged 
overdraft on the account - either at the time the upgrade took place, or in the months that 
followed. The first time I can see that Mr P applied for an overdraft was over a year after he 
agreed to the account.
As such, when weighing up what I think was most likely to have happened, Im not 
persuaded that Mr P was told that taking out an URCA was his only way to maintain/ 
increase an overdraft. I say this especially as I can see that Mr P had previously had an 
arranged overdraft on his account, some years before the upgrade. So I think that Mr P was 
generally aware that overdrafts were obtainable on fee-free accounts, when he agreed to the 
URCA. 
Im also mindful that one of the key benefits of the URCA at the time was that it provided an 
interest free overdraft of up to £300  and providing the account holder stayed within this 
limit, they avoided paying a £1 daily overdraft usage fee (that was applicable to fee-free 
accounts). Therefore, I think its just as likely that the member of staff Mr P spoke to, pointed 
this benefit out to him and it is that overdraft feature that he recalls being told about, rather 
than the account being needed to increase or maintain an overdraft.
So when weighing everything up, I think its more likely that Mr P agreed to the account 
knowing that it was optional because something attracted him to take out the account.
Halifax says that the account was sold on a non-advised basis. And looking at everything 
provided  including Mr Ps testimony, I think the account was most likely sold without advice 
being given. I say this because there is nothing to suggest that Halifax discussed what Mr 
Ps insurance demands and needs were, nor is there anything to suggest that Halifax 
recommended the URCA to Mr P on the basis that it would meet his specific insurance 
needs. As I think the account was sold on a non-advised basis, this means that Halifax was 
not required to check whether the account was a good fit for Mr Ps circumstances. Instead 
Halifax was required to give Mr P the important information so he could decide this for 
himself.
Mr P said that the insurance benefits were glossed over and says he didnt know (at least 
when he initially complained to Halifax) what the benefits of the account were. However, as 
outlined above, I think that the overdraft benefit of the account was more likely than not 
explained to Mr P. I also think that the other benefits wouldve been mentioned to make Mr P 
agree to take out the account, given that I think he knew he did not need to agree to it. And 
although he says he didnt know what the other benefits were, Mr P went on to register a 
phone under the mobile phone insurance cover in January 2012. This suggests that he was 
given at least some information about URCA benefits, even if its the case that he later forgot 
what they were.
I cant be sure whether Halifax provided Mr P with all of the important information about the 
account during the sale. But I can see that Halifax did issue Mr P with a welcome pack after 
he upgraded his account to an URCA. And Ive not seen anything about his circumstances at 
the time that makes me think he wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had he been given 
even more information about the account and associated benefits. And whilst I appreciate 
that Mr P may potentially not have needed all of the benefits provided by the account, this 
doesnt mean it was necessarily mis-sold  after all, theyre sold as a package, so it is up to 
the account holder to decide whether its worth upgrading to, for the benefits they are able to 
make use of.
I also appreciate, that with the benefit of hindsight, Mr P may now feel that the URCA had 
been poor value for money over the few years he held it. But again, that doesnt necessarily 
mean that Halifax was wrong to have sold the account to Mr P when it did.
So, taking everything into account, Ive not seen enough evidence to say that the URCA was 
likely to have been mis-sold to Mr P. It therefore follows that I dont think it would be 
appropriate to ask Halifax to refund the URCA account fees that Mr P paid.  
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman