DRN-1380095
The complaint
Mr N has complained that he asked HSBC UK Bank Plc to close his account but it didn't 
which impacted him financially.
What happened
In Mr Ns complaint to our service he has said that in October 2018 he contacted HSBC to 
close his account as he had opened an account with another bank. He has also said that in 
January 2019 he spoke with HSBCs collections team and it was agreed that his bank 
account would be closed and Mr N would repay the outstanding balance.
Mr Ns account was not closed. He says this has caused him to go overdrawn as further 
debits were made on his account.  Mr N has said this has impacted him financially but it has 
also caused him a degree of inconvenience as he has spent hours on the phone trying to 
resolve the matter. 
HSBC looked into Mr Ns complaint and issued its final response dated 6 June 2019. It said 
as there was an outstanding balance on the account, the account could not be closed. It 
went on to explain that Mr N had an overdraft facility of £3,000 which he had frequently been 
using for the last six months. It explained the account could only be closed once Mr N had 
repaid the overdraft and his balance was at zero.
Mr N remained unhappy as he has said he was never told his account couldn't be closed 
until he had cleared the outstanding balance. On top of that, he was given conflicting 
information, and spent a long time trying to resolve the matter. So he brought his complaint 
to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he didn't recommend it be upheld. To 
summarise, he said he had listened to the call between Mr N and HSBC on 24 January 
2019. Having done so he confirmed that Mr N had agreed to pay between £100 and £159 a 
month in order to clear the outstanding balance on his account and the advisor agreed to 
refund £80 of overdraft fees as a gesture of goodwill. However, Mr N continued to use his 
account until May 2019. So he didn'tt think HSBC had acted unfairly.
Mr N didn't agree with the investigator's opinion, he said that he had spent hours on the 
phone trying to resolve the matter, he had been given conflicting advice on whether he had 
to attend branch to close the account, and he felt our investigator had not listened to all the 
calls available. 
Our investigator requested call recordings from HSBC dating back to October 2018. But 
HSBC were unable to locate the calls. So, as Mr N remained unhappy the case was passed 
to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I agree with our investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
I have considered the fact that Mr N originally said he contacted HSBC to close his account 
in October 2018. Having considered the contact notes provided, it is clear that Mr N did have 
contact with HSBC at this point in relation to an error he made with reducing the overdraft 
limit he had on his current account he held with it. And it is clear that Mr N had opened 
another account with another bank at that time. However, I have considered Mr Ns activity 
on the account from October 2018 onwards. And it is evident Mr N was still using the 
account.
Mr N says he spoke to HSBC in January 2019 and it agreed to close his account. But having 
listened to the call, I cant say HSBC agreed to close the account. It explained there was an 
outstanding balance and Mr N agreed to repay the balance in the coming months. 
Mr N has said he was given conflicting information by HSBC and he should have been told 
the account couldn't be closed while there was a balance outstanding. We have asked 
HSBC to provide all call recordings they have. But it has been unable to locate any further 
calls. Having reviewed the contact notes I cant see that it was agreed at any point Mr Ns 
account would be closed while there was an outstanding balance on the account. So I have 
considered the events that followed the call in January 2019.
From January 2019 until May 2019 Mr N continued to use the account. So I think it is 
reasonable to suggest, that if Mr N was under the impression his account had been closed, 
he wouldn't have continued to use the facility. So I cant say Mr N was unaware his account 
was still open as he continued to benefit from it. It is a customers responsibility to monitor 
their accounts. And so, if Mr N wanted his account to be closed, upon realising it hadnt, it is 
reasonable to suggest he would have complained prior to April 2019 and stopped using the 
facility.
I have considered the points Mr N has raised about the amount of time he has spent trying to 
pursue the matter. And with any kind of financial issue raised, it is reasonable to assume 
some time will be required in order to resolve the matter. And from reviewing the evidence 
that has been presented by both sides, I dont think the time Mr N spent warrants financial 
compensation. I say this because, the end goal for Mr N was to have his account closed, so 
while I dont doubt he did spend time trying to resolve the matter, he was also still using the 
account.
So with this in mind, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman