DRN-3306209
The complaint
Mr L complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay.
Mr L is represented by a family member but for ease of reference I have referred to Mr L 
throughout this decision.
What happened
In April 2017, Mr L acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr L made an initial payment of £500 and was required to make a further 59 
monthly repayments of £383. The total repayable under the agreement was £23,121.
Mr L says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit search to assess credit 
worthiness and level of indebtedness and was provided with copies of Mr Ls payslips to 
evidence his income.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr L didnt agree and said he was using payday lenders to meet his living costs in the 
months leading up to the conditional sale agreement being provided. He had a high interest 
loan with another high cost credit provider and high interest rate credit cards. He also wasnt 
maintaining his repayments on certain credit commitments. Mr L says his bank statements 
would have shown gambling transactions and payments to debt management companies 
proving he had unmanageable debts. Mr L says that adequate checks would have shown 
that the conditional sale agreement shouldnt have been provided. He says that he 
maintained the payments as he needed the car for work.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary: 
Before granting the finance, Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
from Mr L about his income. It received copies of two months payslips which gave an 
average monthly income of around £1,600. 
Moneybarn didnt ask Mr L about his expenditure. Without knowing what Mr L's 
regular committed expenditure was Moneybarn wouldnt have got a reasonable 
understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not.
Moneybarn didnt provide a copy of the credit check it completed and so I relied on a 
copy of the credit file supplied by Mr L. This showed Mr L was in arrears on some of 
his credit commitments in the months leading up to the conditional sale agreement. I 
thought the information suggested that Mr L may have been experiencing some 
financial difficulties.
I couldnt be certain what Mr L would have told Moneybarn had it asked about his 
regular expenditure. I didnt think Moneybarn needed to request bank statements, but 
in the absence of anything else, I placed significant weight on the information 
contained in Mr Ls statements as well as the information in Mr Ls credit report as an 
indication of what would most likely have been disclosed.
The information gathered through Mr Ls credit reports and bank statements showed 
that he had accounts in arrears and one which a debt management plan. His monthly 
credit commitments totalled around £1,000 a month. I thought this level of credit 
commitments against a monthly income of £1,600 should have raised concerns 
about his ability to sustainably repay any further credit.
Joint account bank statements were provided and it was confirmed that Mr L and his 
wife both paid their salaries into the account and then used the funds to pay for the 
household expenses and the remainder was split to pay their own bills. Therefore, I 
thought it was reasonable to look at the transactions in the statements as a whole.
The bank statements showed living costs (including items such as food, transport, 
insurance, utilities) as averaging around £1,000 a month in the months leading up to 
the agreement. Mrs L was earning around £1,700 a month. This was additional to the 
£1,600 earned by Mr L. Deducting the living costs of around £1,000 left income of 
around £2,300. As I was considering household income I also considered all 
outgoings and additional to Mr Ls credit commitments of around £1,000 a month 
there were further credit commitments of around £1,000 recorded on the bank 
statements. These credit commitments combined with the living costs suggested a 
regular payment of a further £383 wasnt affordable.
Taking a different approach and considering just Mr Ls credit commitments of 
around £1,000 against his income of £1,600 raised concerns about his ability to meet 
further credit repayments of £383. And taking into account his other living costs such 
as food and fuel I thought this suggested the agreement wasnt affordable.
Overall, given the size and term of the loan I didnt think the checks carried out were 
proportionate and thought that had further checks been undertaken, Moneybarn 
would have realised that Mr L was struggling to manage his money and that the 
agreement wasnt affordable.
Moneybarn responded to my provisional decision saying it would comply with the proposed 
settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.As I set out in my provisional decision, I think Mr Ls credit report should have raised 
concerns and that further checks should have been carried out regarding his expenditure to 
ensure the agreement was affordable. I think had proportionate checks taken place, 
Moneybarn would have realised the agreement wasnt affordable for Mr L. 
No new evidence was provided in response to my provisional decision and Moneybarn 
agreed to my proposed settlement. Therefore, my conclusions havent changed and I am 
upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to 
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr L should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £13,400 (towards which Mr L paid a 
£500 deposit). Anything Mr L has paid in excess of that amount should be refunded as an 
overpayment.
To settle Mr Ls complaint Moneybarn should do the following:
Refund any payments Mr L has made in excess of £13,400 representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr L asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Moneybarn No. 1 Limited should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman