DRN-1623094
 
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with how Brightside Insurance Services Limited (Brightside) has dealt 
with the cancellation of her car insurance policy. 
This complaint is also brought by Mr H, who was a named driver on the policy, but for ease 
of reference I will refer to Miss B only throughout this decision as shes the policyholder. 
What happened
In January 2019, Miss B bought a car insurance policy sold by a broker, Brightside. She paid 
a deposit of approximately £317 and the remaining amount was to be paid by instalments.  
Miss B said within the 14 day cooling off period, she sent an email to Brightside requesting 
for the policy to be cancelled. The first email was sent to Brightside on 8 February 2019. 
When she didnt hear a response, she sent further emails and eventually spoke to them on 
the phone on 21 February and they cancelled her policy.
Brightside said they didnt receive her emails as theyd been sent to their no reply email 
address so they considered the cancellation request to have been made during the phone 
call. This meant the policy was cancelled on 21 February, which was outside of the cooling 
off period. So they charged her a £60 cancellation fee, £120 for their commission as well as 
the cost of the time shed been on cover. 
Miss B complained about the cancellation, the amount of premiums and fees charged but 
Brightside didnt change its position. They said, in line with the Continuous Insurance 
Enforcement rules, unless Miss B provided evidence of alternative insurance cover or proof 
that the car had been declared SORN before 21 February, she would be charged for the 
time she was on cover up to 21 February. They explained the insurer was looking to charge 
for this period. However as a gesture of goodwill, they agreed to refund the £60 cancellation 
fee. Unhappy with their response, Miss B referred the complaint to our service. 
Brightside have since accepted Miss B sent the cancellation emails to the correct address 
and have also agreed to refund their commission fee of approximately £120. However they 
maintain she must pay for the time on cover up  26 January 2019 to 21 February 2019. 
Our investigator recommended the case is upheld and Brightside disagreed. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold 
Miss Bs complaint and Ill explain why. 
Brightside has recorded the date of the cancellation of Miss Bs policy to be 21 February 
2019, meaning it was cancelled outside of the cooling off period. They have now accepted she did send emails to the correct email address rather than the no reply mailbox as 
previously thought. So, based on the evidence of when this initial email was sent, I believe 
its reasonable to consider the date of cancellation to be 8 February 2019, which is within the 
14 day cooling off period. 
On the basis that the policy was cancelled within the cooling off period, I must now consider 
whether Brightside acted fairly and reasonably. And, if it didnt, whether it has done enough 
to put things right.  
Brightsides terms of business say:
You have the right to cancel your policy during the initial cooling off period of 14 days either 
from the day of purchase or renewal of the contract or the day on which you receive your 
policy documentation, whichever is the later, unless there has been a total loss claim. You 
will be charged for the time you was covered and a cancellation fee. 
Generally speaking, this is a common term which is often found in insurance policies so I 
believe it is reasonable for Brightside to rely on this term given the circumstances here.  
Based on this term, Brightside are entitled to charge a fee as the policy was cancelled during 
the cooling off period but, as a gesture of goodwill, they have decided to refund it. Given the 
circumstances and the inconvenience caused, I believe this is a fair remedy. They also said 
theyd refund their commission fee as a gesture of goodwill. While Im glad to see they have 
agreed to do so, I dont believe it wouldve been reasonable to charge this fee in any event 
as the policy was cancelled within the cooling off period. If these fees havent been removed 
already, these should be deducted from the premium charged.
As explained above, I consider Miss Bs time of cover to be from the date the policy started 
(26 January 2019) to the date of cancellation (8 February 2019). So, it follows that, in line 
with the terms, it would be reasonable for her to be charged a premium for this period of 
cover. 
Brightside said due to the law relating to Continuous Insurance Enforcement, the premium 
wont be backdated unless Miss B can provide proof of alternative insurance cover. But the 
onus is on her to make sure her car is insured at all times. Therefore, I dont believe it is 
reasonable for Brightside to rely on this as a reason not to backdate the premiums to  8 
February 2019, the date the policy was cancelled (or wouldve been if it had acted on the 
email sent). I note Brightside have said the insurer is going to continue to charge up to  21 
February 2019 but the reason the insurer didnt stop cover is as a result of Brightsides error. 
So this is a matter for them to resolve with the insurer if they choose to do so but this doesnt 
affect the amount due to Miss B from Brightside under this decision.
Overall, Miss B should only be charged for the time on cover which Ive determined to be  26 
January to 8 February 2019. Therefore the refund should be re-calculated based on this 
period of time less the commission and cancellation fee. In addition, Brightside should pay 
8% simple interest per year on this revised balance from the 8 February 2019 to the date of 
settlement. It will be a matter for them to resolve the issue thereafter with the insurer if they 
choose to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
To put things right, Brightside Insurance Services Limited should:Recalculate the refund due to Miss B based on the following: 
oCharge her only for the time on cover (26 January to 8 February 2019); and
oRemove any remaining commission and cancellation fees.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this revised balance from 8 February 2019 to the 
date of settlement.
If Brightside considers that it's required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to take off 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Miss B how much it's taken off. It should also give 
Miss B a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC, 
if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
Simona Charles
Ombudsman