DRN-2555849
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has not reimbursed her after she became the victim 
of a scam.
What happened
Mrs S holds a current account and savings account with Lloyds. In October 2019, she 
received a text message which appeared to have originated with Lloyds - referring to a 
blocked transaction on her account. Mrs S says the text message appeared in her message 
history alongside other messages from Lloyds. She thought it appeared genuine.
Unknown to Mrs S at the time, the message had in fact been sent by a scammer who had 
been able to clone or spoof the number Lloyds sends text messages from.
The message asked her to call a number if she didnt recognise the attempted payment. 
Mrs S didnt recognise the supposed payment and so called the number as soon as she was 
able. She explains she did so while driving home having been at a work training event. 
Mrs S says the call was exactly as shed expect when she called Lloyds normally. She 
remembers being taken through a typical security process and recalls that the person she 
spoke to knew information about her and her accounts that she thought only her bank would 
have known.
Mrs S was told that the payment that had been blocked would be cancelled and referred for 
investigation. However, she was also told that there were other international payments 
scheduled to leave her account that same night, and Mrs S confirmed these werent 
payments she knew about. Mrs S was told because they were international these couldnt be 
stopped or recovered and so shed need to move her money to a new account until her own 
account had been reset. 
Mrs S says she was unable to access her mobile banking at the same time as speaking on 
her mobile. It was agreed that shed be called back as soon as she returned home at around 
6pm. She was reassured that this would still be before close of business for the type of 
transaction that was pending.
As had been arranged the scammer called Mrs S back shortly after she arrived home. Again, 
the caller took Mrs S through the standard security process. The caller said Mrs S could 
check the number she was calling from matched the number on the back of her bank card. 
Mrs S verified that this was indeed the case, and this further persuaded her that she was 
dealing with her bank. Again, it appears Lloyds number had been spoofed' as part of this 
deception, this time Lloyds own customer services number.
Mrs S says the caller talked her through the process of transferring her money to the 
temporary holding account. She says the caller knew exactly the steps to follow and 
prompted her about what to input and what would be asked next  exactly as shed expect 
when speaking with a knowledgeable member of Lloyds staff. Mrs S says the caller was 
confident and authoritative throughout and she had no doubts she was speaking to Lloyds.
Mrs S was told that she needed to move all her money, including her available overdraft 
facility, to the new account to avoid it being removed through the supposed fraudulent direct 
debit instructions. The scammer talked Mrs S through transferring the balance of her savings 
account to her current account, creating a new payee and then sending a single Faster 
Payments transfer for £21,056.53. This payment cleared her current and savings account 
balances and utilised her overdraft facility to the exact sum available. 
Lloyds says that when Mrs S made the payment online, it showed her a relevant scam 
warning. Mrs S says the scammer pre-empted every step of the transaction, including this 
warning message. She explains that because she believed she was speaking to her bank 
she was persuaded by the caller it didnt apply.
Mrs S says she then received a text message saying her funds had been secured. Again, 
this appeared in the chain of other messages from Lloyds (in reality some of which werent 
genuine and had been generated by the scammer).
The next morning, when her account hadnt been recredited as shed been told, she 
contacted Lloyds. At that point the scam came to light. Lloyds notified the recipient bank 
about the scam, but the majority of the money Mrs S had sent could not be recovered.
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Lloyds says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case and did not reimburse Mrs S.
Mrs S brought her complaint to our service as she wasnt happy with Lloyds decision not to 
reimburse. One of our investigators looked into it and found that Mrs S had met the 
requirements to be reimbursed fully under the CRM Code, and that Lloyds therefore should 
refund her the money she had lost.
Lloyds disagreed. In summary, it thought:
The scammer had said they would call Mrs S back, which didnt suggest urgency. 
Mrs S had time to reflect after the initial call and could have discussed it with 
someone else before to speaking to the scammer again.
The money was being sent to a different bank, yet Mrs S had not queried this  
she could have spotted the sort-code wasnt her own.
Mrs S hadnt taken account of a relevant scam warning Lloyds had displayed on 
her mobile banking app.
Mrs S hadnt taken steps to verify she was speaking to her bank.
Overall, there were numerous flags that should have prompted Mrs S to question 
the actions she was being asked to complete.
In light of this disagreement, Mrs Ss complaint has been referred to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as that reached by our investigator and 
for broadly the same reasons:Under the terms of the CRM Code, Lloyds should have refunded the money Mrs S 
lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
Lloyds ought to have identified this transaction as significantly unusual and out of 
character for Mrs S and ought fairly and reasonably to have intervened before 
processing the payment. Had it done so I consider the spell she was under would 
have been broken and the loss prevented.
In the circumstances Lloyds should now fairly and reasonably refund the money 
Mrs S lost.
Mrs S states shed intended to utilise the money towards a specific purpose. If Lloyds 
had refunded the money when it ought reasonably to have done, Mrs S would not 
have been deprived of it for the time she has. So, Lloyds should also pay interest on 
the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year. This interest should apply 
from the date of the payment Mrs S made to the date of settlement.
I have carefully considered Lloyds representations about whether Mrs S had a reasonable 
basis for belief when she made this payment and whether she ignored an effective warning. 
But they do not persuade me to reach a different view. I am not persuaded that Mrs S failed 
to meet the requisite level of care under the CRM Code (a failure Lloyds would need to 
establish for it to choose not to reimburse her under the terms of the CRM Code). Nor do 
Lloyds representations persuade me that the bank should not have fairly and reasonably 
prevented the loss by intervening at the time of the scam.
Effective warnings
Lloyds chose not to reimburse Mrs S under the CRM Code. It hasnt specifically said this 
was because Mrs S ignored an effective warning. But it does say it provided a relevant 
warning which it considers ought to have prompted Mrs S to act differently than she did. 
Given the provisions of the CRM Code, I have considered:
1. Whether the warning(s) Lloyds gave Mrs S were effective warnings given in 
compliance with SF1(2)?
2. If so, whether Mrs S ignored those effective warnings by failing to take 
appropriate action in response to the warnings?
3. And if so, whether taking appropriate action would have had a material impact 
on preventing the APP Scam which took place?
I will consider each question below. If the firm cannot establish that each requirement has 
been met, then the exception to reimbursement does not apply under the provisions of the 
CRM Code.
1. Whether the warning(s) Lloyds gave Mrs S were effective warnings given in 
compliance with SF1(2)?
Lloyds says Mrs S would have been shown the following warning:Lloyds says Mrs S would have seen this warning when she was in the process of making the 
payment. She would have needed to click continue in order to proceed with the payment.
Based on the above, Im satisfied that Lloyds intended on providing Mrs S with a warning 
aimed at preventing her falling victim to a safe account scam  the type of scam Mrs S fell 
victim to.
Safe account scams are unfortunately all too common, typically sharing similar 
characteristics including: number spoofing; coaching of the victim on how to make the 
payment; and the use of account or personal information previously obtained to add 
credibility to the scam. All of these applied in this instance. I consider any warning designed 
as an effective warning for such a scam needs take these common characteristics into 
account.
I accept Lloyds has attempted to meet the requirements of an effective warning here. But I 
consider that under the CRM Code, whether or not a warning is an effective warning in 
compliance with SF1(2) will depend upon a number of factors:
The warning must as a minimum meet the UCITS criteria (understandable, clear 
impactful, timely and specific). As these are minimum criteria, it may be necessary 
for the warning to do more than just meet the UCITS requirements to amount to an 
effective warning  it would not be an effective warning if the information provided 
did not give customers a better chance to protect themselves against being 
defrauded. 
The warning should include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect 
themselves from APP scams and should enable customers to understand what 
actions they need to take to address the risk of APP fraud. That could include 
recommending alternative payment methods offering better protection. It must also 
explain the consequences of not taking those actions.
Im not persuaded Lloyds warning was impactful enough in the context of this scam to 
amount to an effective warning. Safe account scams are common, and to be impactful a 
warning would need to be likely, on balance, to break the trust and belief the fraudster has 
created through social engineering. Im not persuaded that its more likely than not the 
warning Lloyds provided here would satisfy the requirement to positively affect customer 
decision making in the way required by the CRM Code. In reaching that conclusion Im 
mindful that: 
- The warning refers to a safe account  explaining that Lloyds will never ask a 
customer to move money into a safe account. While that may be the language used 
by scammers in some instances and is a term that is generally recognised by those 
working in financial services, Im not persuaded this is a term that the average 
customer is familiar with or would automatically understand. Its also true that in 
these types of scams there may be talk of securing the account or transfer to a 
temporary account (as was the case with Mrs S) amongst a host of other possible 
terminology. In the moment, and often being prompted by a scammer, I think there is 
a real risk a customer wont correlate what they are being asked to do (they believe 
by their banks fraud specialists) with the specific phrase safe account. While under 
less pressured circumstances the distinction might seem a fine one, the reality of a 
typical safe account scam at the point of making a payment is not typically one where 
the scammer permits the opportunity for calm reflection. 
- While the warning attempts to warn a customer about number spoofing, it doesnt 
make it clear that scammers have the capability to send text messages that appear 
to originate from the bank, and that this might form part of a broader impersonation 
attempt. The focus in the warning is on receiving a call from a number that looks like 
its one of Lloyds, and so I think there is a risk a customer would feel reassured if 
theyd received what they consider to be a genuine text from Lloyds prior to this call. 
This is a common feature of this type of scam and I dont think the warning goes far 
enough to describe the extent to which the system can be compromised to be 
impactful in the moment. And I consider looks like could be read as meaning close 
to - not necessarily an exact match. 
- Im also mindful that in many safe account scams, the consumers belief that they are 
being called by the bank will be based on more than just the number (for example 
often by professionalism, knowledge of bank processes or the use of personal 
information that the consumer thinks would not be known except by the bank, etc). 
So, even if it did successfully communicate the information that reliance shouldnt be 
placed on the phone number alone for identification, that doesnt address the other 
reasons a safe account scam victim often has for thinking it is the bank they are 
speaking to. 
- The warning doesnt include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect 
themselves from APP scams - which means a customer would not necessarily know 
what actions they could take to address the risk of falling victim to APP fraud. Rather, 
the warning just gives equal prominence to two options: stop and continue. But I 
dont consider these options can reasonably be described as appropriate actions that 
a customer can take in order to address the risk or protect themselves from an APP 
scam. In reaching this conclusion Im mindful the CRM Code gives an example of an 
action a customer could take  a more appropriate payment method that has 
additional protections.
- In order to meet the Code definition of an effective warning, it also needs to set out 
the consequences of not following the suggested steps or action. As Ive explained, it 
is my view that the warning here doesnt suggest steps a customer could take to 
protect themselves and doesnt explicitly state the customer is at risk of losing their 
money by simply pressing continue - or that such a payment might be irrevocable 
and the loss irretrievable.
I dont underestimate the challenge Lloyds faces in creating a text-based warning message 
strong enough to break the spell in a typical safe account scam. But the difficulty of meeting 
that challenge does not mean that the message given by Lloyds here was sufficient to meet 
the minimum requirements in the CRM Code. Overall, in this particular case, I dont think the warning Lloyds gave was impactful enough to 
likely break the spell of the type of scam Mrs S fell victim to. So, Im not persuaded it 
provided effective warnings in compliance with SF1(2). A corollary of this is that the effective 
warning exception does not apply. But for completeness I have gone onto consider the 
additional parts of the effective warning test.
2. whether Mrs S ignored those effective warnings by failing to take appropriate 
action in response to the warnings?
Even were I to have found the warning met the requirements of an effective warning under 
the CRM Code, I still dont consider the exception should apply to Mrs S. Had the warning 
met the effective warning requirements, Lloyds would need to establish that Mrs S had failed 
to take appropriate action in response  or in other words that she failed to act reasonably in 
response to the warning. Im not persuaded Lloyds has established this. 
From Mrs Ss perspective, by the time she saw the warning she was convinced she was 
talking to her bank. This was because:
The scammer had been able to implant a fake text message from Lloyds within a 
chain of genuine text messages from Lloyds;
The scammer had spoofed Lloyds genuine telephone number  which Mrs S had 
verified as being correct by checking the back of her bank card;
The scammer had attempted to mimic Lloyds security checks;
The scammer seemed to know information about Mrs S accounts which she thought 
only Lloyds would know; and,
The scammer knew a lot about the payment process, to the extent of being able to 
pre-empt each step Mrs S needed to undertake. Mrs S believed only a Lloyds 
employee would know such detail.
Of course, Mrs S believed shed been asked to transfer money by her bank and so it follows 
she ought reasonably to have identified with the warning to some extent. But she has 
explained that the caller, by talking her step-by-step through the process also addressed the 
warning before it appeared. She says the callers advance explanation meant Mrs S simply 
didnt give it her full attention when it appeared - she was reassured by the caller it didnt 
apply and that she was following the instructions of Lloyds own fraud team.
Mrs S had complete trust in what the fraudster was saying given she was convinced she was 
taking to Lloyds, and in the circumstances, for the reasons Ive set out above, I think it is 
understandable that Mrs S had this level of trust in the person she was talking to.
In these circumstances I am not persuaded Mrs S failed to take appropriate action  it wasnt 
unreasonable in these specific circumstances that she simply clicked continue and didnt 
read the warning - at the direct prompting of her bank as she believed. Customers do tend to 
follow the instructions banks give them  particularly when it comes to fraudulent activity on 
their account  this is another reason why these types of impersonation scams are so 
successful.
3. whether taking appropriate action would have had a material impact on preventing the 
APP Scam which took place?
In this case Ive found the warning was not an effective warning given in compliance with
SF1(2) and in any event Mrs S did not disregard the warning by failing to take appropriate
steps in the circumstances. Appropriate steps in this case would have been to terminate the 
call and call Lloyds on the number from their website. Had Mrs S terminated the call with the fraudster and called Lloyds on their genuine number 
the scam would have unravelled. But in this case the consumer did not fail to take 
appropriate action in response to the warning, for the reasons Ive explained.
Did Mrs S have a reasonable basis for believing that the payment she was making was 
legitimate?
Ive gone on to think about whether Mrs S had a reasonable basis for belief that the payment 
she was making was legitimate. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds has not shown that Mrs S lacked a reasonable basis of belief when 
making the payment because:
The scam utilised sophisticated number spoofing, allowing the scammers text 
messages to appear to originate with the bank, and for the call she received to 
exactly match the phone number shown on the back of her bank card. Mrs S explains 
she had no idea prior to this event that such number spoofing was possible, and I 
consider this convinced her she was dealing with her bank.
The interactions with the scammer appear to have mirrored (to Mrs S recollection) 
those shed expect to have had with Lloyds genuine staff. There wasnt anything in 
her recollections that seems it ought to have caused her to have concerns that the 
caller wasnt legitimate.
Mrs S also recalls the caller knowing information about her that she thought only her 
bank would have known. Again, this would have added to her belief that these calls 
were legitimately from her bank.
Mrs S describes the scammer as confident and having a thorough knowledge of the 
process required to make the payments. She associated this with a knowledgeable 
and professional member of Lloyds fraud team helping her to protect her money.
While there appears to have been a gap of just over an hour between the initial call 
Mrs S made (in her car) to the time of the call she received at home, shes explained 
to us that during this time she was focussed on driving on a busy road in rush hour 
and this was not her usual commute. In those circumstances I think she had very 
limited opportunity to reflect on the initial call. Nor do I think there was any reason 
shed want to seek the opinion of a friend or family member about the advice shed 
had from her own bank (she believed) unless she had significant doubts. The second 
call appears to have been received very shortly after shed arrived home, again 
meaning she had only a minimal time to reflect on matters. 
Mrs S explains that while the scammer emphasised the urgency of moving the 
money that night, during the initial call she was reassured the payments could be 
held long enough to allow her to return home (she was told the payments due to be 
taken were direct debits going to European banks and that this was before close of 
business for that). Mrs S not being the expert in European banking rules, and the 
explanation being proffered by a confident purported banking professional I dont 
think it was unreasonable that she accepted this, or that it meant there could be no 
urgency in making the payment later.
While the sort-code didnt match her own account sort-code, Im not persuaded that 
this shows Mrs S knew it was going to another bank. Within its own banking group, 
Im aware Lloyds uses numerous sort-codes  all of which are genuine Lloyds sort-
codes  but which might not appear obviously so to the layperson. Even had Mrs S 
picked up on the difference when she was being given the instructions to protect her 
money (which I dont think she did) and even if she had a good knowledge of the 
operation of the sort-code system I dont think shed have immediately realised this 
wasnt a Lloyds related sort-code. She believed she was acting in accordance with 
the instructions of her bank  I dont think a different sort-code number would be enough to break that spell  after all she knew the money was going to another 
account. While I dont think it did, even if it had come to light at that point that the 
money was going to another institution, it doesnt seem implausible to suggest that 
the scammer would likely have simply reassured her as to why that was necessary.
Mrs S made the payment using her own name as the payee name. Mrs S says she 
didnt realise that this wouldnt stop the funds being paid into an account held under a 
different name. This gave her a false reassurance, but I consider contributed to her 
belief that what she was doing was avoiding risk to her funds not the opposite.
Thinking about all the circumstances here, Im not satisfied Lloyds has been able to 
establish that when Mrs S sent the payment she did so without a reasonable basis 
for belief.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Mrs S did not make this payment without a
reasonable basis for belief that she was paying money into a new account Lloyds had set
up for her and for completeness, and for the reasons I have already set out above, I am not 
persuaded Mrs S was grossly negligent.
Could Lloyds have done anything else to prevent the scam?
I am also mindful that when Mrs S made these payments Lloyds should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). And 
Lloyds, in some circumstances and irrespective of the payment channel used, should have 
taken additional steps before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
Mrs S was making a large payment here to a new payee, and the payment cleared the 
balance of both her accounts and utilised her overdraft facility exactly to the penny. This 
meant that two legitimate direct debits failed the following day due to insufficient funds. 
I consider this payment was clearly one that was out of character and unusual for her and 
the clearing of her accounts was indicative of the very scam she fell victim to. I think Lloyds 
ought fairly and reasonably to have intervened  getting in contact with Mrs S to challenge 
the purpose of the payment to help protect her from the possibility of financial harm or fraud. 
Had Lloyds done so, I am satisfied the spell Mrs S was under would more likely than not 
have been broken. She had not been given a cover story by the scammer, and the success 
of the scam depended entirely on her belief that she was acting in line with Lloyds 
instructions. Had she been contacted by the genuine bank at the time, this would have 
quickly become apparent for what it was: a sophisticated and cruel scam. Lloyds would have 
thus prevented the loss from occurring.
In reaching this conclusion I am mindful that Mrs S was on the phone to the fraudster at the 
time she attempted to make the payment. But for the avoidance of doubt, even if Lloyds had 
been unable to contact Mrs S, given the unusualness of the transaction, Im satisfied it ought 
not to have processed the payment until it had satisfied itself Mrs S was likely not at risk of 
financial harm.
My final decision
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mrs S ought to have 
been fully refunded by Lloyds for the losses she incurred due to this scam. I therefore direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mrs S:
the sum she lost  i.e. £21,056.53 less any amounts already refunded to her  within 
28 days of receiving notification of her acceptance of my final decision; 
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date of payment to the date of settlement; and
refund any fees or charges resulting from the scam payment that have not already 
been refunded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman