DRN-3451835
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has failed to meet a 
guaranteed commitment in his pension. He says the annuity quote he received from Aviva is 
not providing the benefits he was originally entitled to and should have been compensated 
for 2001.
What happened
Following a recommendation made to him in 1989, Mr W transferred from his Occupational 
Pension Scheme into a Section 32 policy with Norwich Union (now Aviva). 
After the industry wide pensions review, it was established that Mr W would have been 
better off if he hadnt transferred his benefits from his occupational pension scheme. To 
compensate him for this, his fund value was increased. 
At the date policy was valued, the loss amounted to £15,650 excluding charges. The offer 
letter said the compensation amount would be invested in the same funds, and in the same 
proportions, as his existing Section 32 policy. A policy was set up in 2001 to hold the redress 
payment.
In February 2020, Mr W received a letter reminding him of his retirement options when he 
would reach his selected retirement age of 65 in August 2020. The letter confirmed that his  
plan had a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) which would be payable at age 65.
Mr W complained to Aviva in April 2021 about the performance of the fund, especially in 
relation to the annual bonuses added to the plan. He said the quote he had received from 
Aviva wasnt in line with the policy conditions when the policy was set up, and wasnt 
comparable to what he could get on the open market, but Aviva was unwilling to transfer the 
plan to another provider.
Aviva wrote to Mr W in April 2021 saying: 
the monies in the redress plan would not be used to support the GMP;
it wasnt possible for the GMP to increase in payment by 3% per year, as Mr W 
wanted, as the value of the original plan was not enough to purchase an annuity 
equal to the GMP increasing in payment; 
there was no legal or contractual requirement for the GMP on this policy to increase 
in payment.
In its final response to Mr Ws complaint, Aviva said: 
the way funds have performed means it hasnt been possible to pay new bonuses;
annuity rates have changed over the years and this means the cost has increased;
the GMP would be paid at age 65  it mirrors how the state benefits/state earnings 
related pension scheme (SERPS) would operate and is aligned with that;
the pension was operating in line with the terms and conditions.
Mr W then referred his complaint to this service but our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. The investigator said:
market conditions over the years meant annual bonuses had not been added;
the pension review system wasnt perfect  cases were settled many years before 
retirement age and things would change in that time;
the funds were not enough to provide the GMP but Aviva would make up the 
shortfall, so the GMP would be paid as required;
the difference in quotes Mr W had received for annuity rates might be due to the 
guarantees Aviva had to apply, such as death benefits and a spouses pension;
hed considered the relevant conditions in the policy and was satisfied these had 
been applied correctly.
Mr W didnt agree. He raised some further points, including that:
he didnt agree there had been a fair interpretation of the terms;
the poorly worded condition 7 and condition 9 needed some interpretation but this 
had been done in favour of Aviva, to suit its narrow interests;
it wasnt fair that Aviva would neither honour its commitments in full nor agree to 
transfer his funds to another provider;
the main issue is the net offer being made by Aviva now that he needs his pension.
The investigator didnt change his view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
Before making my decision I asked Mr W to clarify the current position regarding his 
pension, as he had advised that Aviva had now changed its position, meaning he could now 
obtain quotes for a transfer and potentially take his pension by drawdown, which might be 
more appropriate.
Mr W has explained that he approached three different advisers but hasnt been able to 
obtain a quote and there seems to be no practical way of accessing the fund. So he would 
like Aviva to offer a payment option in line with the original policy conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to his health condition, Mr W has understandably been keen to secure his pension 
benefits in the most advantageous way. He did in the end get an opportunity to seek a 
pension from another provider but hasnt been able to proceed with this. So hes now looking 
for Aviva to provide an annuity and says what its offered is not in line with the terms and 
conditions. I appreciate its been a very difficult time for Mr W but I think what Aviva is 
offering is in line with the policy terms. I know this will be very upsetting for Mr W. Ill explain 
my reasons for coming to this view.
As our investigator explained, the pension review system wasnt perfect, but it meant Mr W 
did receive a payment, which was invested in the same funds as his existing Section 32 
policy. The policy was set up in 2001 to hold the redress payment. It means hes been left 
with two elements to his pension. 
The way things have turned out, there are not enough funds in his pension to provide the 
GMP that Mr W is entitled to. But since that is guaranteed, Aviva will honour this and make 
up the shortfall itself. So Aviva is meetings its obligations in relation to this.
The situation has moved on in recent months, as Aviva provided a revaluation of Mr Ws 
funds, allowing him the option to transfer to another provider. Unfortunately for Mr W, he hasnt been able to find a suitable alternative. So he wishes Aviva to provide an annuity in 
line with the original terms. 
The key point is therefore whether the offer Aviva has made is in line with the terms and 
conditions  Mr W says it isnt, because he hasnt been offered an annuity which will 
increase by 3% per year as set out in the terms. The two relevant terms are condition 7 and 
condition 9. Ive looked at what they say carefully.
The second schedule sets out various definitions and the amount of the GMP, and says the 
Escalation Percentage Rate is 3% per annum compound.
The escalation rate is under a separate heading and not part of the GMP section.
As Ive mentioned above, if the fund isnt enough to pay the GMP, Aviva has to make up the 
shortfall. And it has confirmed that will happen. The non-GMP fund cant be used to make up 
the shortfall  the two funds are ringfenced. 
Condition 9 covers increases in pensions. This provides that the part of the pension which 
exceeds the GMP will increase by RPI or 3% compound per year, whichever is higher, and 
the increase will not be such that the pension secured is less than the GMP. So I think Mr W 
is right to say Aviva should quote the non-GMP part of the pension as escalating by 3%.
But condition 7 says the fund will be applied using the then current annuity rates. So 
Aviva will use whatever the annuity rates are at the time. If it had applied the fund to 
escalating rates rather than level rates, the annuity would in fact have been lower. It says 
Mr W can buy a lower pension, which escalates by 3%, if he wishes. So if Mr W wishes to 
have an annuity that increases he may do so.
On this basis, Im satisfied the way Aviva is dealing with Mr Ws pension is in line with the 
terms and conditions and is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman