DRN-3927845
The complaint
Mr D and Miss R have complained about the way Astrenska Insurance Limiteds claim 
handling agent, who Ill refer to as C, handled their claim under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them again here.
The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Astrenska and their claim handling agents are required to handle claims promptly 
and fairly as set out in ICOBS 8.1.1. And I think they did this. 
After Mr B had provided some documents in support of the claim, C explained that  
based on these documents  the amount he and Miss R were claiming for was likely 
to be less than the total of the two excesses applicable of £50 per person. 
Based on the policy documentation Ive seen two £50 excesses did need to be 
deducted. This meant if the amount Mr B and Miss R wanted to claim was less than 
£100 nothing would be payable in settlement of their claim. It seems from what Mr B 
did provide that the amount he and Miss R wanted to claim was less than £100. 
C invited Mr B to provide further documentation to support any additional amounts he 
and Miss R had lost due to cancellation. They said theyd consider the claim further if 
he did this. I think this approach was reasonable in the circumstances, as the policy 
states Mr B and Miss R do need to provide relevant documentation and evidence in 
support of any claim. 
I appreciate Mr B feels the claim process he had to go through was unreasonable 
and the cost of providing a report from Miss Rs GP was prohibitive. But Im satisfied 
the claim process and the requirement to provide a GP report were reasonable and 
in line with what Id consider to be good industry practice.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr B and Miss Rs 
complaint about Astrenska Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman