DRN-3879545
The complaint
K is a limited company. K, represented by its sole director at the time, complains about 
HSBC UK Bank Plc service which led to its account being unfairly closed.
What happened
Due to Covid-19, the sole director Ms T was unable to return to the UK, so Company K was 
run overseas, and it relied upon HSBCs on-line banking to operate its bank account.
At the beginning of 2021, HSBC sent Company K an important mandatory on-line 
safeguarding form to complete. This had a deadline of April 2021 and HSBC stated a 
possible outcome of the review could be account closure.
This was received by Company K, but the form wasnt completed due to uncertainty over 
some of the questions.
HSBC gave Company K more time to complete the form. However, issues with digital 
security key fobs, delivery delays and communication problems meant Company K struggled 
to gain access and found the account blocked. 
Although Company K managed to gain access, as the form still hadnt been completed 
HSBC again blocked the account and then closed it in December 2021.
Company K says that the re-imbursement of the balance was then delayed.
Company K complained to HSBC; however, they couldnt see that theyd done anything 
wrong.
Company K complained to our service and requested account reinstatement and 
compensation.
Our investigator said that HSBC should pay Company K £300 compensation. However, 
Company Ks director is dissatisfied with this amount, so this complaint has been referred to 
me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first considered HSBCs action to close Company Ks account and, whilst I appreciate Ms 
Ts strong feelings here and the inconvenience caused to Company K, a bank is entitled to 
close an account with a company, just as a company may close an account with a bank. 
However, when doing so, it must comply with the terms and conditions of the account.
So, I checked HSBCs terms and conditions and although I appreciate there were postal 
issues, having seen all the correspondence sent to Company K, Im satisfied HSBC gave 
notice and acted correctly.
I then looked at the inconvenience and distress here and its clear that the issues around the 
key fob, account blocks and communications had an impact upon Ms T. However, whilst I 
appreciate Ms T is a sole director, as explained by our investigator our service can only 
consider the impact to the legal entity  Company K. So, I cant tell HSBC to compensate an 
individual here and a company can only experience inconvenience and loss.
When considering compensation for the inconvenience a company may experience, there is 
a high bar and, although I fully appreciate the pressure on a sole director / employee and the 
background to setting up Company K, I wouldve expected Company K to quickly respond, 
liaise or seek support to mitigate potential risks of not completing an important form and 
therefore missing a deadline which could result in its bank account being blocked or closed. 
Also, to look to mitigate communication and automation risks before they materialise.
So, considering this together with HSBCs terms and conditions, safeguarding 
responsibilities, communication and correspondence records, including deadline extensions, 
I cant see that they failed to follow their procedure or acted unreasonably when closing 
Company Ks bank account. And Im not persuaded that they should pay compensation to 
Company K for the account blocks or inconvenience to the sole director.
However, from reviewing the file, Im satisfied that Company K did experience inconvenience 
when there was an approximate 6-week delay when HSBC followed their policy by 
processing a closing balance cheque. So, considering this together with the circumstances 
in this case I think the £300 HSBC agreed to pay following our investigators view is both fair 
and reasonable. 
So, considering all the above, whilst I appreciate Ms T will be disappointed, Im partially 
upholding this complaint and I require HSBC to pay Company K £300 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
pay Company K £300 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company K to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman