DRN-4160399
The complaint
Mr T complains about Santander UK Plc.
He says that Santander didnt do enough to protect him when he became the victim of a 
scam and would like Santander to refund him the money he has lost as a result.
What happened
In 2021, Mr T was researching online for an investment opportunity. He joined a Facebook 
group discussing investments in cryptocurrency and was subsequently added to a Telegram 
group along with others who were discussing trades and providing support and guidance. 
One of the participants in the group suggested Mr T open a crypto wallet with a provider and 
offered to help. Mr T was reassured as up to this point, he had made all the decisions 
himself, and so allowed this individual access to his crypto wallet key.
Mr T was persuaded to make payments to the wallet totalling £6,550, which were then used 
to buy crypto and transferred to other wallets. I have set out the payments below.
Date Amount Payee Payment type
21 May 2021 £1,000 LT Online transfer
24 May 2021 £1,000 LT Online transfer
24 May 2021 £500 LT Online transfer
24 May 2021 £500 LT Online transfer
24 May 2021 £500 LT Online transfer
24 May 2021 £1,000 LT Online transfer
24 May 2021 £1,500 LT Online transfer
24 May 2021 £550 LT Online transfer
Total £6,550
Mr T then realised that he had been scammed and complained to Santander.
Santander refunded Mr T 50% off his loss, under the contingent reimbursement model 
(CRM).
Unhappy, Mr T brought his complaint to this Service. Our Investigator looked into things but 
didnt think that Santander needed to do any more than it had already done.
They explained that Santander had applied the CRM code to Mr Ts complaint - but as the 
payments had been made to a crypto wallet in Mr Ts own name which he had access to, 
then it didnt apply. 
They also said that while they thought that Santander could have intervened from the fourth 
payment made on 24 May 2021 and refund him from this point, that Mr T had been 
negligent, and so applied a deduction of 50% to the refund due for contributory negligence. 
And as Santander had already refunded Mr T 50% of all the payments made, no further 
refund was due.
Mr T disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. He says that 
Santander had already agreed that something went wrong by agreeing to refund 50% of the 
payments  and that as the Investigator said that Santander should have noticed something 
was amiss by the fourth payment on 24 May 2021, it could have stopped they payments.
So, the complaint has been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Santander doesnt need to do any more than it has 
already. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute here that Mr T has been the victim of a scam and has lost a significant 
amount of money as a result. However, even when it is clear that a scam has taken place, 
and an individual has been tricked out of their money, it doesnt necessarily follow that a 
business will need to refund the money that has been lost.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr T when he authorised payments from his account or whether it could and should 
have done more before processing them. 
Did Santander act fairly and reasonably in Mr Ts case?
Having considered Mr Ts transactions in the lead up to the scam taking place, similar to our 
Investigator, while the individual payments were not that unusual for Mr Ts usual pattern of spending, by the fourth payment he made on 24 May 2021, Mr T had spent £3,000 on crypto 
in a matter of days. However, unlike our Investigator, I think its unlikely that Santander 
needed to intervene here  the individual payments were still not that high, and although 
they were going to crypto, not every payment to crypto is as a result of a scam, That said, I 
dont need to make a finding here, because it doesnt make a difference based on what 
follows.  
It may be that had this conversation taken place, then the scam could have been uncovered, 
and further loss prevented. However, I do also need to consider if Mr T did anything to 
mitigate his own losses too and if I need to apply contributory negligence here. 
Mr T says that he was initially doing his own research on Facebook, before being contacted 
by an individual through this group and added to a Telegram group. He says that he did 
some research on YouTube and allowed the scammer to access his own crypto wallet too.
Taking this into account, I dont think that Mr T did enough to mitigate his own losses here. 
Santanders notes say that he said he didnt do any checks before paying for the crypto on 
the advice of someone he had never met and had no reason to trust. He also didnt read any 
of the scam warnings Santander provided at the time he was making the payments.
YouTube is also not an investment platform  and there is no regulation on the advice given. 
Mr T also gave an individual he had just met online access to his crypto account. And so, I 
feel that a reduction in award of 50% would be reasonable here.
This means that even if I was to say that Santander could have prevented Mr Ts loss from 
this time, it has already paid Mr T more than I would award to settle his complaint, and I 
dont direct it to do anything further.
My final decision
I dont find that Santander UK Plc need do any more than it did already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman