DRN-2349871
The complaint
Mr K complains on behalf of his business H, that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly restricted Hs 
account and loaded a fraud marker on Hs record with Cifas.
What happened
Mr K is the sole director of H.  
H had a business account with HSBC. 
 
On the 19 September 2019 a cheque of just over £24,000 was credited into Hs account with 
HSBC. On the same day Mr K transferred out £9,000 to his personal account with HSBC 
and £8,000 to another account in his name with a third party bank. The majority of the 
remainder of the funds were withdrawn on the 20 September 2019. On transferring the 
£9,000 to his personal account with HSBC Mr K withdrew the funds in branch the next day.
On the 27 September 2019 HSBC received notification from the sending bank that the 
cheque was fraudulent and proceeded to block Hs account. They contacted Mr K and asked 
him whether he was expecting a cheque of £24,000 to be deposited into Hs account. Mr K 
explained H had carried out some consultancy work for a business, and hed transferred the 
money to his personal account to purchase a car. However this fell through.
Mr K complained to HSBC about the restriction to Hs account. But HSBC didnt uphold his 
complaint. And on the 18 February 2020 the bank wrote out to Mr K to advise him theyd be 
closing all of his accounts, including Hs account. 
The bank also loaded a misuse of facility marker against H on the National Fraud Database 
with Cifas. 
On learning about the Cifas marker Mr K made another complaint to HSBC  but they 
concluded theyd fairly loaded the marker to the National Fraud Database. 
Mr K wasnt happy with HSBCs response so brought his complaint to our service. He said 
because HSBC had restricted access to his account his business was severely impacted 
and the Cifas marker stopped him successfully opening other accounts. And hed like 
compensation for the disruption to his business.
 
One of our investigators looked into his complaint but didnt uphold it. Overall, they 
concluded that although Mr K had provided evidence of a contract H had with a client, they 
thought on balance he knew that the cheque was fraudulent and therefore the Cifas loading 
was fair. He also felt that HSBC had acted fairly in restricting access to Hs account. 
Mr K didnt accept our investigators view. Therefore its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. And Ill explain why below. 
The marker that HSBC have filed with Cifas is intended to record that theres been a misuse 
of facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, theyre not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that H was guilty of a fraud of 
financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. Cifas says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Hs account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. Secondly, 
the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that H was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
However, a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a Cifas marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
I need to assess whether I think there is sufficient evidence to meet this standard of proof  
and therefore whether HSBC acted fairly in loading a Cifas marker against H. 
For HSBC to have fairly loaded a Cifas marker against H they need to have evidence to 
show that Hs account received fraudulent funds. Im satisfied based on the information 
provided by HSBC theyve sufficient evidence that the cheque paid into Hs account on the 
19 September 2019 was fraudulent  by this I mean unauthorised by the drawing account 
holder. Im therefore satisfied that HSBC have met the first pillar to load a marker. But this 
isnt sufficient on its own for HSBC to load a marker, I need to be satisfied that H was 
complicit in the fraud, so in summary was deliberately dishonest and knew the cheque was 
fraudulent. So Ive moved on to consider this. 
Mr K says that the £24,000 cheque paid into Hs account was payment for a contract H was 
carrying out. He provided a copy of this contract to our service, and an invoice for the same 
payment amount Hs account received. But this isnt enough for me to say H wasnt 
deliberately dishonest. And on balance I think H was likely complicit in the fraud. I say this 
because:
Neither the invoice or the contract are specific about exactly what services H has 
provided the client. 
 
I find it strange that in the year prior to the cheque deposit less than £500 was paid 
into Hs account. And for six of the preceding twelve months no transactions were 
carried out on Hs account. 
Mr K informed HSBC during a review in early September 2019 that H had around 
13,000 clients but he mainly receives payments via cash. I find it unusual that Hs account is operated in this way. And that prior to the £24,000 cheque there was such 
a small amount of account activity. 
The payee details on the cheque paid into Hs account dont match the invoice or 
contract Mr Ks provided.
On balance I cant see any benefit to a fraudster in paying a fraudulent cheque into a 
random unsuspecting account. 
I find the account activity after the cheque was deposited unusual. On receiving 
£24,000 into Hs account Mr K explains he transferred £9,000 to his personal account 
with HSBC to purchase a car. But this purchase fell through. Hes not provided any 
evidence to support this. I also find it surprising the day after transferring the funds he 
withdrew the money in cash from his account. As well as transferring £9,000 to his 
personal account with HSBC Mr K also moved £8,000 to a personal account with 
another bank  which he advises was for wedding expenses  and withdrew most of 
the remaining funds via an ATM and a travel agency. All of this activity occurred 
within four days of the fraudulent cheque being deposited.
I find it strange that Mr K moved a large proportion of the funds earnt from Hs 
business contract to his personal account  and as explained above advised that 
these were going to be used for personal transactions. 
In summary, Im satisfied because of the reasons Ive outlined above its likely H was 
complicit in the fraud. 
Account Restriction:
Ive moved on to consider HSBCs actions in blocking access to Hs account between the 
27 September 2019 and when the account was closed on the 18 February 2020. I realise 
Mr K will be disappointed with my conclusion, however Im satisfied that HSBC have acted 
fairly and reasonably here. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Hs account, and Im 
satisfied that HSBC applied these fairly. 
The terms and conditions of Hs account state:
19. Blocking payments and services.
We can block any payment device if we reasonably believe its necessary because of:
-A significantly increased risk in you being unable to pay any money you owe us on 
the relevant account; or
-Suspected fraudulent or criminal use of the payment device; or
-Security concerns. 
I understand that the restriction of Hs account had a significant impact on Hs ability to trade. 
However Im satisfied in carrying out the restriction the bank followed the terms and 
conditions of Hs account, and acted fairly. 
Overall, I havent concluded that HSBC have acted unfairly in their actions. And it follows I 
wont be asking them to do anything further here.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman