DRN-4197794
The complaint
Ms H complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (formerly AXA Sun Life) referred to 
as Aviva or the business, cancelled her policy without permission. 
What happened
Aviva says it sent a letter to Ms H in 2010, confirming the next steps that she needed to take 
in order to keep the plan running. But because it didnt hear back, the policy became paid 
up. The business confirmed that this didnt mean the policy was cancelled. 
Ms H says that because she didnt give permission, she wants the policy reinstated to its 
previous (normal) status. 
According to the investigators summary, the last premium for the policy was paid on 23 
March 2009. Just after this date, Ms H began the process of transferring her bank account. 
In April and May 2009, the business wrote to Ms H requesting updated bank details but 
received no reply.  
In May 2010 the business sent Ms H a letter confirming that her policy had been made paid 
up because it hadnt received any payment since 23 March 2009. In June 2010, Ms H wrote 
back confirming her bank account change, and that shed been told by the bank that her 
direct debits had been transferred over. 
In response the same month, the business explained that it hadnt received a request to 
change the bank details, despite her bank suggesting that it ought to have. But it still gave 
Ms H the opportunity to reinstate the policy, providing she made a cheque payment of £105 
covering the outstanding payments. The business also asked her for her latest direct debit 
details, but it didnt hear back from her. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary he said in the circumstances the business hadnt behaved unreasonably by 
converting the policy to a paid up status. He also noted it also gave Ms H the opportunity to 
pay the missed premiums, provide new direct debit instructions and reinstate her policy but 
never heard back from her.   
Ms H disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
She feels like shes been messed around and lied to and made a fool of by the business. So, 
shed like the ombudsman to take another look. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion, for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Ms H says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably in the circumstances by rendering her policy 
paid up (without her express permission) when it couldnt take payment for the plan on two 
or more separate occasions, despite it asking her to make payment.
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the strength 
of feeling Ms H has about this matter. She has provided detailed submissions to support 
the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take 
the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much 
detail, as a discourtesy.
  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, or undertake a forensic analysis of the evidence, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it 
doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points in this case.
 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Ms H and the business, and reach what 
I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case  
Im not here to take sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and 
best industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for 
me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to 
have happened. 
I dont uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons. 
The business made clear what would happen if it didnt receive payment within a 
certain period of time. Ms H wouldve agreed to these conditions before going ahead 
with the policy, therefore its unlikely she wasnt aware  or she ought reasonably to 
have been aware  what would happen if the premiums werent paid on time. 
If Ms S didnt read the key policy documentation, its not something I can blame the 
business for. 
The responsibility to make payment, and on time, including covering any missed 
payments was with Ms H. I cant blame the business for her not meeting her 
responsibility regarding the payment of premiums. I dont think theres any doubt the 
business wasnt providing cover for free. 
I understand that just after the last premium was paid in 2009, Ms H was in the 
process of changing banks. Ive seen nothing to suggest that she wanted to cancel 
the policy, Im mindful shes made clear that she wanted to keep the policy having 
paid into it all this time since 2004 and that she had no affordability issues. Its likely 
that there was an issue with her bank change, which meant her direct debits hadnt 
been set up correctly in respect of paying the business. 
Even if Ms Hs bank was at fault  which I make no formal determination on  it 
doesnt mean that the business did anything wrong by making the policy paid up 
because it didnt receive the required payment. Regardless of whether (or not) the 
bank is to blame, the two issues in my mind are separate and distinct. Ms H is free to 
pursue a separate complaint against her bank if thats what she wants to do. On 
balance, its unlikely that the business wouldve received the instructions from the 
bank and not responded or taken appropriate action regarding the updated 
instructions.  I note the business chased her on at least two occasions regarding its inability to 
collect payment  its unlikely that Ms H wouldnt have received at least one of those 
reminders  asking her for payment, but it seems payment still wasnt made.  
Its possible there was an issue with the post, which meant she didnt receive the 
reminders, but Ive seen no evidence that there was. Im mindful that all 
correspondence was sent to the address that the business had on file, which was 
also the address Ms H used in her correspondence. In any event, I cant blame the 
business for the actions of a third-party postal service. 
That said, I note she received the letter in early June 2010 notifying her that the plan 
had become paid up. I note Ms H responded and the business offered to reinstate 
the policy, providing she paid for the missed premiums  which I think is reasonable. 
I also note on that occasion the business also sent a new form asking for her 
updated direct debit details but received no reply. 
In the circumstances, I dont think the business has done anything wrong by 
rendering the policy paid up, without seeking or obtaining Ms Hs consent. 
If Ms H had moved address during the material time, especially when the business 
wrote to her asking for payment and giving her the opportunity to reinstate the policy 
months after the last premium was paid, it wouldve still been her responsibility to 
notify and update the business of any change of address. If she didnt, I cant blame 
the business for continuing to write to the address it had on file and her not 
responding. In other words, on balance, it wasnt the businesss fault if she didnt 
receive this particular correspondence. 
Whilst I appreciate Ms H might feel that the business isnt treating her fairly, for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think the business is behaving unreasonably. In other 
words, Im satisfied that the businesss actions are reasonable and justified. 
Overall, and on balance, Ive found that the business has operated reasonably. I appreciate 
Ms H will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and I 
realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her deep frustration and 
anguish, Im not going to ask the business to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Ms H what she wants.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman