DRN-3438631
The complaint
Mrs M complains about QIC Europe Limited (QIC) who declined her claim under her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M contacted QIC to make a claim following a theft at her home. Mrs M told QIC that the 
perpetrators had broken the door lock, removed it from the door, entered and stole her 
possessions. The police were called and she was given a crime reference number. 
QIC asked for evidence of the damage to the door. Mrs M said that she had no photos of the 
damage. Mrs M also advised that she had no proof of ownership of the stolen items. At this 
point, QIC declined her claim. 
Mrs M complained to QIC as she said to decline the claim was unfair and unreasonable, 
especially as QIC hadnt been clear or highlighted the term to her previously, so that she 
would be aware of its existence. 
In its final response, QIC maintained its position. It said that the onus was on Mrs M to 
validate her claim and the way in which she had to do this was to prove that there was a 
forced entry, as well as proving ownership of the items. As she was unable to do this, the 
claim would remain declined.  
Mrs M was given her referral rights and she referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Her view was 
that the burden of proof initially rested with the policyholder to prove their loss and the prove 
ownership of the items theyre claiming for. As Mrs M was unable to provide this, she 
concluded that QIC were fair and reasonable to decline her claim. 
QIC accepted the view, Mrs M did not. Mrs M said that she didnt dispute what was in the 
policy terms and conditions. But felt that the terms that were in the policy, that significantly 
changed the policy, should be brought to the attention of policyholders, which wasnt done 
here. So, she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be a 
disappointment for Mrs M, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive 
reached this decision.
Mrs M made a claim following a burglary at her home. During the claims process, she was 
asked to provide evidence of her claim, either by proof of damage to the door caused by the 
perpetrators. In addition, to provide proof of ownership of the items stolen. QIC said that the 
proof of ownership could be either receipts of the items purchased or photos of Mrs M 
wearing the items. Mrs M was unable to provide the requested proof. 
Mrs M accepts that it wasnt unreasonable or unfair for QIC to ask policyholders to prove 
their losses. But what she found unreasonable was that the term hadnt been highlighted to 
her by QIC. As she believed that such items in a policy (and she provided case law to 
support this), significantly changed the terms and conditions. So, I think that this is the main 
issue of this complaint, and Ive considered the evidence from both parties.
We wouldnt reasonably expect QIC to explain everything the policy did or didnt cover. But it 
wouldve had to highlight any significant, unusual or onerous terms.
I have considered whether the request that policyholders evidence their loss, would be 
considered to be significant, unusual or onerous. Based on what I know about home 
insurance policies, I dont think that this is a particularly significant, unusual or onerous term.  
This term is a standard term relied upon by insurers and is one of the principles of insurance. 
So, I wouldnt think it was fair or reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim, where the 
policyholder hadnt evidenced their loss. 
The policy document shows (some of which is in bold writing) on page 14 of a 44-page 
document, that policyholders must prove any losses. It also advises that if this condition (and 
others within this section of the policy) is not met by the policyholder, QIC can decline the 
claim or settle part of the claim. So, I cant agree that it was hidden and I think QIC could 
reasonably decline the claim, not least as it complied with its requirements under the policy.
Although, I understand that Mrs M believed that this term shouldve been brought to her 
attention, I dont agree that the term was either significant, onerous or unusual to warrant 
QIC highlighting this condition. Consequently, I dont think QIC were unreasonable to have 
relied upon it, in order to decline the claim. So, I wont be asking QIC to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I wont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman