DRN-3150211
The complaint
Mrs W says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for 
a mortgage.
What happened
Mrs W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2002. According to Santanders records, the 
sale was done over the phone. Mrs W paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, 
which didnt attract interest. It covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided that Mrs Ws PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because of all the time thats passed, there isnt still a record of what was said during 
Mrs Ws sales call. But from what Ive seen of Santanders sales process from the time, it 
seems most likely that the policy would have been presented as optional. Its cost would 
have been set out separately from the cost of the mortgage itself, and Mrs W would have set 
up a direct debit specifically to pay for the policy  it was not part and parcel of the lending. 
And Ive not seen any wider problems with Santanders sales process from the time, nor 
anything which shows that Mrs W was misled or unfairly pressured into buying PPI here. So 
I think its most likely that Santander made Mrs W aware she had a choice about buying the 
PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer 
recalls doing so after so many years.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs W, so it had to check it was right for her. And based 
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like 
Mrs W was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or 
limitations. The policy would have paid out on top of Mrs Ws work benefits and offered her 
more comprehensive cover, such as for when her benefits reduced to just a fraction of her 
normal pay. It also meant Mrs W could effectively protect her savings and use them for other 
things, instead of potentially needing to sacrifice one asset to save another. And its worth 
bearing in mind that if Mrs W fell behind on her mortgage, she couldve lost her home. So 
overall, the PPI could have been useful for Mrs W in protecting her home and providing 
some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Santander gave Mrs W about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But that, on its own, does not necessarily mean that the policy was mis-sold. 
Instead, the question is whether I think better information was likely to have changed her 
mind. But as I explained above, Mrs W wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover, and it couldve been useful for her in case something went wrong. The policy 
was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid 
on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs W could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, 
I dont think that better information was likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman