DRN-1660711
The complaint 
Mr T and Mrs Ws complaint is about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A and its decision to decline a claim made under a travel 
insurance policy. They want their claim paid.
Background
Mr T and Mrs W had annual travel insurance with Mapfre and were due to go on 
holiday in August 2018 with their family.
The day before departure, Mrs W became ill with gastroenteritis. They cancelled their 
outboard flights (which led to the return flights being cancelled) and car hire. But 
three days later Mrs W was well enough to travel so the family booked new flights 
and hired a car, and enjoyed the rest of their holiday. 
Mr T and Mrs W made a claim under the travel insurance policy, but it was declined.
Mr T and Mrs W complained to Mapfre.
Mapfre said the policy wasnt in force until 3 August 2019 (the start date of the 
holiday), which meant that Mrs Ws illness predated the period of insurance and the 
claim wasnt covered.
Mr T and Mrs W didnt agree and brought their complaint to us. They said that Mrs 
Ws illness continued into the period of insurance and so their claim should be 
accepted. Mr T and Mrs W added that they contacted Mapfre before booking new 
flights and couldnt speak to the specialist team but were told that the person they 
spoke to believed the claim would be covered  they said if theyd been told 
differently, they wouldnt have booked new flights.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should not be upheld.
Mr T and Mrs W dont agree.
 
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. When I refer to Mapfre, Im also referring 
to its agents.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should not be upheld for these reasons: 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Mapfre has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Strictly, as Mr T and Mrs W didnt cancel the trip or curtail it as they didnt leave early 
(they started the trip late), the terms and conditions dont cover the claim at all. But 
fairly and reasonably Mapfre has said it would consider the claim as a cancellation as 
the costs of cancellation wouldve been more than the amount sought  its losses 
were mitigated by Mr T and Mrs Ws actions.
The policy says that cancellation cover runs from the start date of the policy. The 
schedule shows clearly that despite being taken out earlier, the start date of Mr T and 
Mrs Ws policy was 3 August 2019. The schedule warned Mr T and Mrs W that they had chosen the start date and any claims before this date wouldnt be covered, 
including this trip.
Mrs W fell ill before the policy was in force. While I understand that she continued to 
be ill once the policy had started, the first event in the chain that led to the claim was 
when she fell ill, and this was before the policy started. Legally, Mapfre is entitled to 
decline the claim. I note that the investigator pointed out that the policy said anything 
that could be foreseen before the policy started wasnt covered, which does cover 
Mrs Ws illness as she became ill before the period of insurance started and it was 
obvious then that it was likely the trip would be cancelled due to the severity of her 
symptoms and the medical advice given.
I thought about what was fair and reasonable. Theres no evidence that Mapfre was 
responsible for the choice of start date of the policy; its more likely than not Mr T and 
Mrs W chose that date. The schedule says they chose the date. And theres a 
warning that there was no cover before the start date. I think its fair and reasonable 
for Mapfre to decline the claim.
Mr T and Mrs W say that they were given incorrect information when they called 
Mapfre before booking the new flights. But Mr T and Mrs W accept that they knew 
the specialist team hadnt advised, that the claim wasnt accepted at that time, and 
that there was no guarantee that the claim would be accepted  they say that the 
member of staff said he believed the claim would be accepted. In any event, Im not 
satisfied that Mr T and Mrs W wouldve given up on a holiday in these circumstances 
and only booked the flights because of a conversation with Mapfre.
 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Mapfre Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs W to accept or reject 
my decision before 8 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman