DRN-2041072
Complaint 
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs G say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
A long time has passed since Mr and Mrs G bought their PPI policy so there isnt much 
documentation available from the time of sale. Where there is limited information available, I 
have to decide what I think is more likely based on the evidence available, including Mr and 
Mrs Gs testimony.
Mr and Mrs G bought their PPI during a meeting with Santander. Santander says they 
wouldve completed a separate application form for the PPI although they no longer retain a 
copy. Weve seen a number of cases from around the time Mr and Mrs G bought their PPI 
and have developed a good understanding of its standard practices and processes. 
Santander usually made it clear that the PPI was optional and it also asked customers to 
agree to take it before adding it to their accounts  as part of its usual process. 
Ive seen a welcome letter with an insurance schedule that was sent to Mr and Mrs G after 
the PPI was set up. This set out broadly what the PPI covered, the cost and the benefit 
amount was also included. Had Mr and Mrs G not agreed to take the PPI, I wouldve 
expected them to have questioned why it had been set up on receipt of this letter. 
So, I think its more likely Santander made it clear Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take out the 
PPI and they chose to take it out.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G so it had to check the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, they were eligible for the policy and werent affected by any of the main 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  Mr and Mrs G also seem to have had a need for the 
cover. 
Mr and Mrs G say they had some sick pay provided by their employer and they had some 
savings. They also had death in service benefit and redundancy cover. Finally they add they 
had critical illness cover (CIC). But their PPI policy wouldve paid out on top of their 
employee benefits for up to 12 months if Mr and Mrs G were unable to work because of 
illness or injury. It also provided 12 months of cover for unemployment. Death in service CIC 
policies do not provide the same type of cover as PPI. Having PPI also left their savings 
available to use on other essential expenditure. So, I think the PPI couldve been useful for 
them. 
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. They say for example that they werent told they could cancel the policy. 
But I can see the welcome letter did provide contact details if they wanted to discuss 
anything  I also note they did subsequently cancel this policy. 
Furthermore, I think they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. A mortgage is a long term and significant commitment  the 
consequence of not being able to make repayments can be serious. Based on everything 
Ive seen, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs G off 
taking out the cover. 
Overall, I dont think this policy was mis-sold. 
Ive also thought about whether Santander needs to give Mr and Mrs G some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Gs 
mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008, they dont apply. So Santander 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman