DRN-3482043
The complaint
Mr P says Revolut Ltd acted unfairly when it closed his account(s) without giving any 
reasonable explanation
What happened
Mr P opened an account with Revolut on 19 November 2017. On 8 April 2020 Revolut 
notified Mr P that it would be closing his account. This was done on 12 October 2020. 
Mr P tried to open a second account on 14 April 2021 and a third account on 29 October 
2021. Both accounts were closed by Revolut.  
Mr P says he provided all the required documents and the clauses the bank is relying on to 
defend its decisions do not apply: he hasnt violated any of the account terms. He has the 
right to know why his accounts were terminated, he only applied for the second and third to 
try to understand what had happened on the first account. He will not be discriminated 
against and wants a full explanation: on what basis did Revolut decide not to offer him 
services? 
Our investigator did not uphold the compliant. He said Revolut was within its rights to close 
the first and subsequent accounts and was not obliged to provide a reason for doing so.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr P asked for an ombudsmans review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand that Mr P was upset when Revolut closed his accounts and that he remains 
frustrated that it has not provided a reason. That being said, in order to uphold this 
complaint, Id need to be persuaded that Revolut made a mistake or did something it wasnt 
entitled to do. And, having reviewed all of the information provided, I dont think that was the 
case. 
Mr P says it is unfair he has not been given a reason for the account closures and 
restrictions. Revolut has explained that it was acting in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ps account (clauses 23 and 24) and, having reviewed them, Im satisfied 
that it was. Similarly, in the terms, clause 4 provides for Revolut not to offer an account to 
someone who has previously had an account closed, so I can find no error in its decision not 
to allow the second and third accounts.
Mr P wants to know why Revolut closed his account but Revolut isnt obliged to disclose the
reason so I cant say it did anything wrong by not giving Mr P an explanation. Revolut has 
told this service broadly why it closed Mr Ps account and, while I cant share these reasons 
with Mr P, I am satisfied from its submission that it was entitled to reach this decision, based 
on its risk policy.
Mr P also raised the issue of discrimination. In terms of discrimination, it is for the Courts to 
determine if a business has acted unlawfully. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of each particular case. In reaching that decision, we will consider 
various factors including relevant law and what we see as good industry practice from the 
time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not Revolut has breached the Equality Act
2010, Im required to take it into account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did so as part of my review of this case. Mr P did not submit any specific evidence for me to 
consider in support of his claim. For the reason Ive set out above, from what I have seen Im 
satisfied that Revoluts actions were driven by its internal risk policy.
I know this isnt the answer Mr P was hoping for, and I appreciate the information Ive
given wont answer the questions he has. But I hope he can take some comfort from what
Ive said and the knowledge that an independent third-party has reviewed Revoluts actions 
and found no failings.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman