DRN-3499309
The complaint
Ms P complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited trading as Quotemehappy.com (Aviva) 
handled a claim under her motor insurance policy. When I mention Aviva, I also mean its 
repairers and suppliers.
What happened
Ms P has a motor insurance policy with Aviva covering her car. 
In April 2021 Ms Ps car was damaged in an accident with a third party. She made a claim 
under her policy and Aviva accepted it and started to handle her claim.
Around this time, Ms P says she was looking to sell her car due to changes in the way cars 
were going to be charged for in the area she lived. These changes were happening later in 
2021 so it was important to Ms P that her car was sold promptly.
Ms P wasnt happy about the delays in her claim so she complained. Aviva apologised for 
the delay and gave Ms P £150 compensation.
A door on Ms Ps car had been damaged in the original incident and Ms P says water was 
entering the car causing further damage to the interior. She reported this ongoing water 
damage to Aviva, and the car was inspected by Avivas engineer in late June 2021. 
Ms P chased Aviva again for progress in late July. Her car was taken away to fix the damage 
and Ms P was supplied with a hire car. 
Ms P wasnt happy about the new delays in her claim. She says she had planned to sell the 
car in April 2021, but felt the claim delays meant she couldnt sell it. 
The car was inspected by Avivas repairer in August 2021. In the inspection, Aviva noted 
there was damage to the front, left-hand door consistent with the reported accident. It also 
showed light pre-existing damage to a few other areas.
Aviva told Ms P that it wouldnt clean all of the interior of her car, only the area that had been 
damaged by water leaking in through the area damaged in the original incident.
Aviva offered Ms P an additional amount of £200 as further compensation for the delays and 
inconvenience. 
When the car was returned to Ms P she said she noticed some dents that she says werent 
there before. Aviva asked Ms P if she had any evidence of this, but she only had a few 
photos which were taken after shed got the car back and none from before it was sent for 
repair. Ms P had since sold the car so Aviva wasnt able to inspect it. So Aviva didnt uphold 
that part of Ms Ps complaint.
Ms P asks for compensation because she says she had to sell her car at a lower price than 
she wanted. She says this is because of the delays caused by Aviva during the claim 
meaning she had less time to sell it.
Ms P remained unhappy and she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into it and upheld part of it. She said she couldnt see the damage Ms P said Aviva 
had caused, so didnt think it was fair to ask Aviva to pay for it. She researched the value of 
the car and found that its market value had increased in the time between the accident and 
the time when Ms P sold the car. Although she appreciated that Ms P had less time to deal 
with the sale of the car due to the claims delays, she said it was ultimately Ms Ps choice to 
sell her car at the price she was offered.
But she did agree that Avivas claims process caused Ms P distress and inconvenience, so 
she said Aviva should pay Ms P an additional £200 compensation, on top of the £150 and 
£200 awards already made.
Aviva accepted the view, but Ms P asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding Ms Ps complaint in part. Ill explain why.
In order to make a final decision, I have divided Ms Ps complaint into sections and will deal 
with each one in turn.
Vehicle value
Ms P has explained that the delays in her claim meant that she wasnt able to sell her car for 
what she thinks is the full value. She also points out that she had to sell it in a rush in the 
end because of the change in car charges where she lived.
Ive looked at what Ms Ps car was worth in April 2021, and then later in the year when she 
sold it, and I can see that the value of the car increased during that time according to various 
trade guides. Because of this, Im not persuaded that Avivas delays contributed towards a 
loss in value for Ms P. 
I do appreciate her point about having to sell it quickly, but Im not persuaded that I can 
reasonably say its Avivas fault. Ms P took the decision to sell, and accepted the value of the 
car, and I dont think I can hold that against Aviva. So Im not going to ask it to do more.
Additional damage
Ms P has supplied photos of the car which she says shows damage caused by Avivas 
repairer in about August 2021 when the car was being repaired. I can also see Avivas 
photos of the car when it was inspected by its repairer. In Avivas photos I can see small 
areas of damage at a few points on the car which werent part of Ms Ps claim. 
In Ms Ps photos, which were taken after the car came back from the repairers, she seems 
to focus on an area on the rear left door. Unfortunately I cant see the specific damage she 
says was caused by Aviva, and having compared her photos with those taken by Aviva I 
cant say whether any extra damage was present, or how it was caused. 
Aviva had offered to inspect the car to assess the damage, but unfortunately Ms P had 
already sold it.So I cant fairly hold Aviva responsible for this.
Distress and inconvenience
Aviva have already agreed to pay Ms P £150 for the initial claim delays, an additional £200 
for her inconvenience, and a further £200 which our investigator said Aviva should pay due 
to the distress itd caused her. Aviva agreed to pay this, and its my understanding that it has 
already paid this to Ms P.
Ms P has explained how the claims delays have affected her and how stressful she has 
found the whole claim. She asks for a figure of £1,000 as suitable compensation.
It seems to me that Avivas claims process has been at fault for many of the delays in the 
claim and I can see that in its file Aviva says it should have progressed the claim much faster 
than it did.
Aviva have agreed to pay Ms P a total of £550 for all of her distress and inconvenience, and 
I think this amount is fair and reasonable. Ive looked at what this service would recommend 
in similar situations to Ms P and Im not persuaded to ask Aviva to pay more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct 
Aviva Insurance Limited trading as Quotemehappy to pay Ms P a total of £550 for her 
distress and inconvenience. Its my understanding that this amount has already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman