DRN-4208457
The complaint
Miss M complains that One Insurance Limited avoided her motor insurance policy (treated it 
like it never existed) and refused to pay her claim.
What happened
In May 2022, Miss Ms fianc, Mr M, took out a motor insurance policy with One Insurance 
through a price comparison site on behalf of himself and Miss M. He recorded Miss M as the 
policy holder with Mr M as a named driver. 
In January 2023, when the car was stolen, Miss M made a claim on the motor insurance 
policy. One Insurance requested the V5 document and noticed the registered keeper on the 
V5 was Mr M. As a result, One Insurance said Miss M had answered the question it asked 
about whether she was the owner and registered keeper incorrectly when buying the policy. 
This is because Mr M had completed it on behalf of Miss M as the main policy holder and 
she wasnt the registered keeper. One Insurance considered this to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid her policy and decline the claim. It deemed it to 
be a careless misrepresentation and so returned the premium to Miss M.
Miss M explained that although Mr M bought the policy online and is the registered keeper 
on the V5  they can only add one name  the car is theirs jointly for family use. They only 
have one car and used joint funds (from a release of equity and a joint savings account) to 
buy it. She is listed as the policy holder as she is the main driver. 
Miss M complained to One Insurance but it didnt change their mind. In the final response 
letter, it explained the registered keeper must be the policy holder or spouse and so they 
wouldve been covered if Mr M and Miss M were married. Miss M explained they were due to 
marry but, due to the pandemic, this was postponed. However, they live together, are 
engaged with two children, own a home together (with a joint mortgage since 2016) and 
share all utility bills and responsibilities. To all intents and purposes, they are married, but 
without a ceremony to confirm it, and feel they shouldnt be treated unfairly because of this.
Miss M brought her complaint to our service. The Investigator felt the underwriting criteria 
from One Insurance lists the acceptable vehicle owner/keeper (not vehicle owner and 
keeper) as follows.
Proposer
Spouse 
As Miss M was the owner of the vehicle, the Investigator said One Insurance wasnt right to 
avoid the policy. And they thought Miss Ms complaint should be upheld under our fair and 
reasonable remit. To put things right, they asked One Insurance to reinstate the policy, 
consider the claim and pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
One Insurance didnt agree. It says, if the consumer answers no to the question whether 
theyre the owner and registered keeper, the consumer is taken to separate questions for 
who the owner and registered keeper are. Also, it sent an underwriting guide which states 
the proposer, spouse or leasing company should be both the owner and registered keeper. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 June 2023 where I said the following.
In this matter, the first issue to decide is whether One Insurance acted in line with the 
relevant law when it avoided Miss Ms policy. Ill also consider if it acted fairly and 
reasonably. If it didnt, Id also need to consider how One Insurance should put things right. 
did One Insurance act in line with the relevant law in this case?
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
One Insurance say Mr M  filing in the comparison site form  failed to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation when he answered yes to the following question.
Are you the owner and registered keeper of the car (or will you be)?
Having considered this, I think its arguable whether One Insurance has shown:
the question asked here is sufficiently clear or specific enough to make Mr M aware 
he needed to answer it on behalf of Miss M as the main driver; 
Mr M didnt take reasonable care when answering it; and
theres a qualifying misrepresentation. I say this particularly given the terminology 
used in the question and underwriting criteria initially sent to our service.
I appreciate One Insurance says if Mr M had answered no to the key question, options are 
given for who the owner and registered keeper are to be entered separately. But that 
assumes the initial question is clear and specific enough such that Mr M wouldve thought he 
should say no, he (as the question says you and he was a named driver) wasnt the owner 
and registered keeper of the car (even though he was) and Miss M wasnt either (even 
though she was the owner and  but for the restrictions on vehicle registration  wouldve 
likely also been the registered keeper). And, as set out above, I consider its questionable 
whether the question is clear and specific enough.
did One Insurance act fairly and reasonably in this case?
Even if I thought there was a qualifying misrepresentation made by Mr M, on behalf of Miss 
M, which allowed One Insurance to avoid the policy under CIDRA, I dont agree One 
Insurance has acted fairly and reasonably in this matter. Ill explain why.Its my view One Insurance is on notice the question Are you the owner and registered 
keeper of the car (or will you be)? isnt clear and causes confusion amongst spouses. I say 
this because:
One Insurance has shared underwriting criteria and explains in this exact scenario it 
wouldnt have avoided the policy if Miss M and Mr M were spouses. This is even 
though they wouldve made the same misrepresentation it is now relying on to avoid 
the policy. 
Its likely this exception only needs to exist in the underwriting criteria because the 
issue has come up previously and One Insurance accepts people give the wrong 
answer to the question.
In the schedule of insurance, under both registered keeper and vehicle owned by, it 
refers to the Proposer/Policyholder suggesting One Insurance accepts they can be 
two separate parties even when only one question has been asked about the owner 
and registered keeper together. 
Having confirmed the misrepresentation is acceptable in this exact scenario if Miss M and Mr 
M were married, I cant see why itd be fair and reasonable to treat Miss M and Mr M any 
differently. In all facets of their life, they operate as a married couple and, in effect, theres no 
material difference between their relationship and that of a married couple, aside from the 
marriage certificate. In fact, clauses like this generally include common law spouses and civil 
partners. Further, but for the pandemic, I note they would already be married. So, I cant see 
itd be fair and reasonable for One Insurance to avoid Miss Ms motor insurance policy in this 
particular case. 
For the reasons set out above, I dont agree I can say the actions taken by One Insurance to 
avoid Miss Ms policy were in line with CIDRA nor do I think it was acting fairly or reasonably 
in this particular matter.
I also outlined the things One Insurance needed to do to put things right. Miss M responded 
to accept the provisional decision. 
One Insurance responded and didnt accept my provisional decision. It said:
The owner and keeper are separate matters. And the keeper here differs to the 
owner.
Miss M and Mr M dont have a marriage certificate, and this shows they arent 
married and cant legally be declared as spouse, it also shows there is a difference in 
their relationship.
It questions why Mr M completed the remainder of the sections as if he was Miss M 
except for the question about being the owner and the registered keeper of the car 
when he was clearly buying it for his partner.
The policy shouldve either been taken out with Mr M (the keeper) being the 
policyholder or the keeper recorded as partner/common law.
It wouldnt avoid a policy where such a misrepresentation has been made by a 
spouse. However, this is because CIDRA sets out that it cannot avoid a policy for a 
careless misrepresentation if the risk was still acceptable. 
It doesnt appreciate the assumption it has had issues with its underwriting criteria as 
this is a strong suggestion of its capabilities.
One Insurance rates common law and spouse differently. Having a different 
registered keeper of a vehicle presents a different risk and so is priced accordingly 
and accepted/declined based on risk appetite.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed One Insurances comments and theyve not persuaded me to change my 
decision. I say this because Im not satisfied One Insurance has shown theres a 
misrepresentation - nor qualifying misrepresentation - under CIDRA allowing it to avoid Miss 
Ms policy nor that itd be fair and reasonable to do so in Miss Ms particular situation. This is 
for the reasons stated in this decision and in my provisional decision. Therefore, it needs to 
reinstate Miss Ms policy and take the steps outlined below to put things right.
In relation to some of the specific points raised by One Insurance, I respond as follows:
I accept the owner and keeper are separate. But, for the reasons explained in this 
decision and the provisional decision, I dont accept One Insurance has shown the 
question related to this is sufficiently clear and specific, Mr M failed to take 
reasonable care when answering it nor there was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
While Mr M filled in the details on the comparison site, the question about the owner 
and keeper comes at the beginning of the customer journey, just after questions 
about the vehicle to be insured, and is under the heading Your Car. At this point, Mr 
M hadnt been asked to confirm who the policyholder would be and so its my view 
his answer to the question was a true reflection of the situation. It was Mr Ms car 
(owned jointly with Miss M) and he was also the registered keeper. 
I accept Mr M and Miss M arent legally married and dont have a marriage certificate. 
However, having confirmed the misrepresentation is acceptable to One Insurance in 
this exact scenario if Miss M and Mr M were married, I cant see why itd be fair and 
reasonable to avoid the policy when they are living as a married couple and the delay 
in them marrying was not due to their own fault but as a result of the pandemic. In 
this particular matter, therefore, Miss M and Mr M should be treated as though they 
are married - a risk One Insurance is willing to accept. 
Putting things right
To put things right, One Insurance Limited needs to do the following:
1. Reinstate Miss Ms policy which means it runs the full term from May 2022.
2. Deal with the claim under the terms of the motor insurance policy. This should 
include considering appropriate compensation for loss of use of the vehicle and 
adding 8% simple interest to the settlement sum from one month after the date of 
claim until the date it is paid.
3. Remove all records of the policy avoidance from all internal and external databases.
4. Give Miss M a letter stating the policy was avoided in error and confirming that its 
records have been amended. Miss M can show this to the insurer(s) shes had since 
One Insurance  if any - to see if her premiums would need to be adjusted.
5. Pay Miss M £200 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. This 
should be paid within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Miss M accepts my 
final decision. If One Insurance pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
6. From the overall amount One Insurance is due to pay Miss M, it can deduct the 
premium it had charged for the policy year from May 2022 but only if this amount has 
already been returned to her. 
7. HM Revenue & Customs requires One Insurance to take off tax from interest. One 
Insurance must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. To put things right, One Insurance Limited needs to take the steps 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman