DRN-2052264
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK plc withdrew his arranged overdraft without giving him 
notice. He also complains that Santander UK plc didnt inform him it would record 
information with credit reference agencies about a payment arrangement he made with it.
What happened
Mr F had a current account and an arranged overdraft with Santander. The account was 
transferred from a Student account to a Graduate account in December 2016. Mr F says 
Santander wrote to him in May 2019 and told him his account would be transferred to an 
Everyday account in July. 
He says he got a text message from Santander in July and he phoned it at that time. He 
says Santander said it was going to make the changes to his account, but he explained he 
was still studying. He says Santander told him hed have to make a full application for a post 
graduate account. And, he says it told him hed have to pay off the full amount of his 
overdraft before 19 September 2019.
Mr F visited a Santander branch in early August 2019. He says he was told he had until 19 
September to pay off his overdraft. After that date thered be additional charges because he 
no longer qualified for the fee free overdraft. He says he was surprised when he got a text to 
contact Santander a few days later. He phoned Santander and was told that his overdraft 
had been removed on 13 August because he hadnt been maintaining his account.
Mr F says Santander told him hed have to pay back the full amount of the overdraft. When 
he explained hed been told only a few days previously that he had until 19 September to 
repay the overdraft Santander told him that branch staff didnt have access to all of the 
information. Mr F says he hadnt received any letters from Santander about his overdraft.
During the call Mr F agreed to repay the overdraft within the next three months. He said he 
would pay two amounts of £100 and then the balance at the end of the third month. He says 
he wasnt told this arrangement would be recorded with credit reference agencies. He says 
this has adversely impacted his credit file. So, he complained to Santander.
Santander investigated his complaint. It said it was a term and condition of the account that 
he made monthly credits to the account and he hadnt done that. It said it had sent him 
several letters and text messages about this, but he hadnt made any credits to the account. 
So, it said it didnt do anything wrong when it withdrew the overdraft.
Santander said its branch staff didnt have access to its collections system and that was why 
the branch hadnt referred to the letters hed been sent. But it said it had sent the letters. It 
also said it had listened to the call when Mr F had made the payment arrangement and its 
adviser had told him the arrangement would be recorded with credit reference agencies. So, 
it didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr F didnt agree and so he referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint. He said that Santander had sent letters about the overdraft to Mr F. It 
also had a duty to report the arrangement to credit reference agencies and it had accurately 
reported the terms of the payment arrangement. So, he thought Mr F had been treated fairly. 
Mr F didnt accept what our investigator said. He thought thered been a fundamental failing 
when he hadnt been told about the arrears letters when he visited the branch. He says he 
was told he had until 19 September to repay the overdraft. But Santander had withdrawn the 
overdraft on 13 August. He also said he didnt get any of the letters. And, he says if hed 
been told the arrangement would be recorded with credit reference agencies, he wouldve 
paid the whole amount immediately.
Because Mr F didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for the account. These say the customer must 
regularly pay his primary form of funding, such as salary, into the account. If this doesnt 
happen, the terms and conditions state that Santander can review its relationship with the 
customer.
Mr F was provided with these terms and conditions when his account was transferred to a 
Graduate Account. But, Mr F didnt regularly pay salary, or other form of funding, into the 
account. So, I think Santander didnt do anything wrong when it reviewed its relationship with 
him.
Santander wrote to Mr F several times to remind him about the terms and conditions and 
asked him to make payments into the account. Santander has provided records of the letters 
it sent to Mr F. I can see letters at different times in 2018 and then again from April 2019. 
These letters made clear that regular payments needed to be made and if that didnt happen 
Santander would withdraw the overdraft. There is a letter dated 2 August 2019 which warns 
that the overdraft is about to be removed and it gave Mr F ten days to make a payment to 
the account. The overdraft was then removed on 13 August.
Mr F says he didnt get any of these letters. But I can see that the letters are all correctly 
addressed to the address Santander held for Mr F on its records. Ive also listened to a 
telephone call Mr F made to Santander on 19 June 2019. During that call he refers to a 
notification hed received from Santander a few weeks previously where he says he was told 
he had to repay the overdraft in full. It was during this call that he asked Santander about 
changing his account back to a student account. 
So, although Mr F says he didnt get the letters, Im satisfied he did get a letter telling him the 
overdraft needed to be repaid. And Im also satisfied that the other letters Santander has 
referred to were sent to Mr F. I dont think its fair or reasonable to hold Santander 
responsible for any letters not having been received.
Mr F says that when he went to a branch of Santander at the start of August it didnt tell him 
anything about the letters. And he says it told him the overdraft wouldnt be withdrawn until 
19 September 2019.
I can understand why Mr F was annoyed when he found out that, despite what hed been 
told in the branch, the overdraft was withdrawn on 13 August. Santander says its branch 
staff dont have access to its collections system. Ive thought about what Mr F has said and the response from Santander. Having done so, I 
think the information the branch gave to Mr F related to the fact that his arranged overdraft 
was due to expire in September 2019. Each year in September the arranged overdraft was 
reviewed and after review it could be withdrawn, amended or renewed.
It is also the case that an overdraft is repayable on demand. And, it can be withdrawn at any 
time. So, although the branch staff didnt have access to all of the information, Im satisfied 
the overdraft could be withdrawn at any time and Santander didnt have to wait until 19 
September to withdraw it.
Mr F did become aware the overdraft had been withdrawn when he phoned Santander on 16 
August 2019. Ive listened to that call. 
During the call, Santander told Mr F the overdraft had been removed and he needed to 
repay it. He was told that if the overdraft wasnt repaid it would affect his credit file. 
Santander also told him on two occasions during the call that if he made a payment 
arrangement with it then the arrangement would be recorded on his credit file. So, Im 
satisfied Santander did give him this information before he entered into the payment 
arrangement.
Having considered everything here, I dont think Santander did anything wrong when it 
withdrew the overdraft and recorded details of the payment arrangement with credit 
reference agencies. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman