DRN-1276938
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the exchange rate used by Halifax Bank of Scotland Plc.
What happened
Mr P made a transfer from a foreign bank account to a joint account he holds with Mrs P.
Mr P's unhappy with the rate applied by Halifax to exchange his money. He said he's out-of-
pocket because the rate is used was less favourable and that Halifax had access to a more 
competitive one and simply chose not to use it. 
Halifax said the rate applied to the transfer was the correct one for that particular day. It said 
rates can vary however it was satisfied Mr P was treated fairly. 
Our investigator said Halifax hadn't made a mistake and that there was no evidence of Mr P 
being treated any differently to other customers in similar circumstances. 
Mr P disagreed. He said that Halifax could have used the interbank transfer rate as it was 
much more competitive. He estimated that Halifax has cost him a lot of money by not doing 
this. And so it's for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I won't be upholding
Mr P's complaint. My reasons for doing so are similar to those already explained by our 
investigator, but in short, Halifax hasn't done anything wrong here. I'll explain why.
Mr P requested the transfer on 18 March last year. The money was arriving from a 
foreign bank and so needed to be changed into Sterling. To do this, banks will use the 
relevant exchange rate agreed for that particular day, unless the consumer has booked a 
rate with the bank. In Mr P's case, I've not seen any evidence that he booked a rate with 
Halifax, and so, I'd expect it to apply the relevant exchange rate for that day - which is what it 
did. So I think Halifax has treated him fairly. 
The bank's terms state;
Receiving money from outside the UK or in a foreign currency
If we receive a direct payment in a foreign currency, we will convert it into pounds before we
pay it into your account. We will then treat it like any cash deposit or direct payment (see
4.3). For some non-EEA currencies, we may be unable to convert the payment into pounds
on the day we receive it. If so, we will convert it as soon as we are reasonably able to and
will add it to your account up to two working days after we receive it. Well also value date it
on the date we receive it.
What rates and charges apply to these payments?
 You can find out our current standard exchange rate for the payment by calling us (seeHow to contact us). Please note that the rate may change by the time we receive the
payment.
 We may take our charges for dealing with a payment before we add it to your account. If 
we do this, we will tell you the full amount of the payment and the charges that applied
Having carefully considered what Halifax's terms says, I'm satisfied it's acted in accordance 
with them and therefore Mr P hasn't been treated differently. 
I understand the arguments Mr P has subsequently made about the interbank transfer rate 
and had Halifax used this rate, he would have been much better off. But I don't think it's 
reasonable to expect Halifax to do this. The interbank rate isn't for consumers. Like the 
name suggests, it's a rate that's agreed between the banks to move money about on a 
wholesale-scale rather than consumers transferring money between their bank accounts.
In any event, Halifax is able to use its commercial judgement to set its foreign exchange 
rates and it's not something it needs to consult with Mr P on. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold Mr and Mrs P complaint.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Scott Slade
Ombudsman