DRN-3963890
The complaint
Ms T complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd avoided her life and critical illness policies and 
refused to pay her claims.  
What happened
In August 2019, Ms T took out two life and critical illness policies with Zurich. Following the 
breakdown of her marriage, she was looking to secure protection for a mortgage. The advice 
and application process spanned approximately five months, from March 2019, with the 
policies going live on 12 August 2019. 
Unfortunately, in February 2021, Ms T was diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis (MS). She later 
made claims on her policies, under the critical illness benefit. 
After reviewing the claims, Zurich said Ms T hadnt answered the following questions 
correctly during the application process.
 
In the last 5 years, unless you have already told us earlier in this application, have 
you had, or been advised to take any medication or have any treatment forany 
tremor, numbness, loss of feeling or tingling in the limbs or face, blurred vision, loss 
of balance or co-ordination, epilepsy, seizure, or loss of muscle power? 
Other than for the conditions you have already told us about earlier in the 
applicationare you aware of any symptoms that you intend to seek medical advice 
or treatment for, or are you waiting for any test results, appointments or 
investigations with your doctor or other medical professional?
Zurich thought Ms T shouldve answered yes to both questions, when in fact she answered 
no. It considered these to be qualifying misrepresentations and said that, had she answered 
correctly, it would not have offered cover. Zurich treated the misrepresentation as deliberate 
or reckless, entitling it to refuse the claims and avoid the policies. 
Ms T complained but Zurich maintained its position, so Ms T brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Ms Ts position is that shed answered the application 
questions correctly and that MS investigations werent carried out until well after the policies 
were applied for and commenced. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying she 
thought Zurich had acted fairly in refusing to accept the claims and avoiding the policies.  
Ms T provided further evidence and comments, but our investigator reiterated her view that 
Zurich hadnt done anything wrong. Ms T didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsman to 
review her complaint and issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all the information carefully, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this 
will be upsetting news for Ms T and Im sorry about that. I hope it will help if I explain the 
reasons for my decision.
I appreciate the significant efforts Ms T has made to provide evidence to support her 
complaint.  Ive reviewed everything shes sent us.  But Ive focused on the points and 
evidence I consider material to my decision.  So, if I dont refer to a particular point or piece 
of evidence, its not because I havent thought about it. Rather, I dont consider it changes 
the outcome of the complaint. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Zurich has said Ms T failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she applied for the policies. Its relied on the answers she gave to questions about her 
health. 
Zurich thinks Ms T shouldve disclosed that she been experiencing neurological symptoms 
for some time when she applied for the policies. She consulted her GP on 14 August 2019. 
The contemporaneous GP record states:
Patient reviewed. Thinks she has nerve damage post skin reduction surgery 1 year 
ago. OE has a foot drop and is unable to toe walk. Sensation reduced in L2/L3 
distribution on right side. Absent ankle jerk. Wishes referral to neurology. See letter 
for details.
The neurology referral is dated a few days later with the presenting complaint as right sided 
numbness and foot drop. In the referral summary there are the following additional 
comments:
She states she does not at any time trust her leg but feels that it fatigues very easily 
after fairly minimal exercise and becomes heavy and unwieldy with frequent episodes 
of tripping over her foot.
She has waited for 12 months to see if there would be any spontaneous 
improvement and has continued a programme of strength training at the gym to 
maximise what function she has.
Ms T says she answered Zurichs questions correctly. She pointed out that she had not had, 
or been advised to take any medication or have any treatment for any tremor, numbness or 
any of the other neurological symptoms listed in Zurichs first question. I can understand Ms Ts argument here. The question is there to capture common neurological symptoms. But I 
think there is some ambiguity in the phrasing, with it being possible to interpret the have you 
had as relating either to the medication and treatment or the symptoms themselves. I 
acknowledge this is an area of dispute between the parties, but in light of my other findings, I 
dont think its something I need to determine, as it doesnt affect the overall outcome. 
Zurichs second question asked Ms T if she was aware of any symptoms she intended to 
seek medical advice or treatment for. The GP record of Ms Ts consultation on 14 August 
2019 evidences that Ms T was aware of symptoms affecting her functioning which had been 
present for approximately seven months before she spoke to her financial advisor and a year 
before the policies went live. Its noted that Ms T was waiting to see if there was any 
improvement. Im satisfied that by the time she completed her applications, Ms T was 
monitoring her symptoms, things were not improving and its likely to have been her intention 
to seek medical advice.
Overall, I think this question was clear and that the symptoms Ms T had been experiencing 
should have been disclosed to Zurich. So I think this means Ms T failed to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation. 
Zurich has provided evidence of its underwriting criteria to show that had Ms T disclosed her 
symptoms, it wouldve postponed, pending full investigations. Ms Ts symptoms did not 
abate. She attended medical appointments in November 2019 and again in February 2020 
with additional symptoms being disclosed. There were further appointments and 
investigations, ultimately resulting in her MS diagnosis in February 2021. Zurichs 
underwriting guidance confirms it with a diagnosis of MS, cover wouldve been declined. The 
misrepresentation is therefore a qualifying one under CIDRA.
There are a couple of other points Id specifically like to address. Ms T has provided 
additional evidence, both from her GP and her consultant neurologist, clarifying their 
comments and opinions. But this additional evidence doesnt change the fact that Ms T was 
experiencing notable symptoms prior to taking out the policies. The issue is not whether the 
root cause of those symptoms was MS, but rather that, whatever the underlying cause, the 
symptoms were not disclosed to Zurich. 
Ms T has also asked why Zurich is now saying cover wouldve been declined, when her 
policies were originally accepted with an MS exclusion  something which was later removed 
when Zurich acknowledged it shouldnt have been applied. For clarity, the underwriting 
criteria shows that an exclusion is only considered in certain circumstances pre-diagnosis or 
where the applicant has been symptom-free for over 10 years. Im satisfied that in the 
circumstances of Ms Ts declining health and eventual diagnosis, cover would not have been 
offered at all.   
Ive looked at the actions Zurich can take in accordance with CIDRA. Its treated the 
misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. Zurich didnt find Ms Ts explanation for the 
misrepresentation credible or convincing. It considered she wouldve known or didnt care 
that the information given was both incorrect and relevant to the insurer. Given the notable 
symptoms Ms T had been experiencing in the year prior to the policies going live, Im 
satisfied Zurich hasnt treated her unfairly by categorising her misrepresentation as 
deliberate or reckless.
It follows Im also satisfied Zurich was entitled to avoid Ms Ts policies, in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  the policies never existed, Zurich did not have 
to deal with Ms Ts claims under the critical illness benefit. In light of all the circumstances, I 
dont think Zurich has treated Ms T unfairly, so I dont uphold her complaint. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman