DRN-1843684
 
The complaint
Mr P says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Mr Lender provided to Mr P in July 2019. The 
loan was for £300 to be repaid in six monthly instalments, the largest being £143.60. Mr P 
struggled to repay his loan. Mr Lender froze the loan and Mr P repaid it in full three months 
later. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. Mr P disagreed and so the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Mr Lender asked Mr P for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr P said his monthly income was £1,872. He said his monthly expenditure 
was £1,130 including other short term loan repayments. I cant see anything in Mr Lenders 
credit checks that should have prompted further checks. 
Mr P thought Mr Lender should have seen the extent of his other short-term borrowing in its 
credit check. But the check that Mr Lender carried out wasnt of Mr Ps full credit report. It 
wasnt required to do this. And so the extent of Mr Ps borrowing wasnt evident to Mr 
Lender. 
I think these checks went far enough for Mr Ps first loan from Mr Lender. Given the loan 
amount, what was apparent about Mr Ps circumstances at the time and his history with Mr 
Lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the amount of information 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Mr 
P provided or the information Mr Lender shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve 
been proportionate to start verifying what Mr P was saying. The loan repayments looked 
sustainable for Mr P, so I cant say it was wrong for Mr Lender to have approved this loan. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27July2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman