DRN-2085515
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc started to apply charges for use of a business 
bank account, despite the account having been set up with the promise of free banking for 
life.
What happened
In 2003, Mr C set up a farming business. He opened a bank account for the business with 
Bank of Scotland, which he says was promoted as offering free banking for life. 
In 2019, Mr C noticed that the account had started to incur monthly charges. So he raised a 
complaint with Bank of Scotland last September.
Bank of Scotland said that it had made a commercial decision to amend its charging 
structure, and that the terms and conditions of the account allowed it to make such changes. 
Accounts like Mr Cs were now subject to a £5 monthly fee  and in May 2020 would move 
to the banks standard tariff, which carried a £6.50 monthly fee and transaction charges. It 
said it wouldnt amend its decision in Mr Cs case. 
But Bank of Scotland did accept that it had put the account on the wrong tariff initially  and 
that it had failed to give Mr C appropriate notice of the changes as required under the terms 
and conditions. So it sent him £50 compensation. And it said the account would be 
monitored until it was moved across to the right tariff, with any additional charges refunded in 
the meantime.
Mr C continued to receive additional charges above the £5 fee, despite escalating the matter 
with the bank. It paid him a further £100 compensation and £60 to cover his costs, and 
refunded the additional charges he was receiving. But Mr C remained unhappy, so he 
referred the matter to us.
Our investigator thought Bank of Scotland had been entitled to make the change under the 
terms and conditions of the account. And while acknowledging that the bank had made 
errors in how it had carried things out, he thought that it had already paid Mr C fair 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. So he didnt recommend that it do anything 
more. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review his 
complaint. So it was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Cs complaint last month, setting out why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld. I said:
There seems to be some uncertainty on the banks part as to what tariff the account 
was originally on when it was opened back in 2003. It says there is no record of Mr C 
being offered free banking for life. But its not told us what tariff did apply. It doesnt 
have the original account conditions, but its sent us a copy of the application form  
which doesnt mention any special conditions, like free banking. And it says there are a 
number of customers whove benefitted from fee free status for years, due to ad-hoc 
arrangements with relationship managers  but these wouldnt constitute an 
agreement for life. 
Ive looked at the application form and agree that theres no particular mention of a 
fee-free status. But theres also no mention of a fee tariff of any kind. So I dont think 
this evidences the position one way or the other. And the bank hasnt provided any 
evidence to show that the fee-free status was set up on an ad-hoc basis at any point. 
The application form does, however, show that the account opened at the time was a 
Direct Business Cheque Account. Information published on the banks website 
around the time Mr C opened the account in 2003 said that this type of account was 
offered with free banking forever. That supports Mr Cs recollection of the account 
being set up on a free for life basis. I understand that no charges were applied from 
the account opening, until the change made in 2019  further supporting what Mr C 
says.
So taking everything into account, I think its most likely that the account was opened 
on a free banking forever basis. 
Thats important here because under the banks review of its charging structure, 
accounts that were set up on a free for life basis were to remain unchanged. In other 
words, the bank wouldnt have changed the tariff for Mr Cs account if it had been 
identified as a free for life account.
So while the bank may be allowed to make changes to the account under the terms 
and conditions, it wouldnt have done so here if the account had been correctly 
identified as free for life. And so it follows that I dont think it is fair to apply the 
changes. Theres no reason why Mr Cs account should be treated any differently to 
those of the same status.
And so to put things right, Im intending to direct Bank of Scotland to revert the account 
back to its free for life status. It will also need to refund all of the charges that have 
been applied to the account as a result of the change. And as I can see that Mr C has 
been put to some inconvenience in trying to rectify the matter in a number of 
exchanges with the bank, Im also intending to require the bank to pay a further £150 
compensation on top of the £210 its already paid.
Mr C responded to say that he accepted my provisional decision. Bank of Scotland 
confirmed it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no new information or evidence for me to take into account, I see 
no reason to reach a different conclusion. So this decision confirms my provisional findings, 
as set out above. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc to:
Reinstate the account to its free for life status;
Refund all charges incurred as a result of the tariff change in 2019; and
Pay Mr C compensation of £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman