DRN-1273357
The complaint
Miss G complains about how Zenith Insurance plc has handled a claim under her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Miss G was involved in an incident and her car had to be repaired. Zenith arranged for 
Miss G's car to be sent to an approved repairer. The initial repair was completed quickly but 
Miss G soon noticed issues with the alignment of the bumper on her car. Zenith arranged for 
an independent inspection to take place and it was agreed the bumper should be replaced. 
While Miss G wasn't completely happy with the alignment after the bumper had been 
replaced, she accepted there was nothing more that could be done. She'd been assured it 
was fitted to a commercially acceptable standard.
During the bumper inspection, an issue with one of the headlights was also noticed. Zenith 
agreed to pay Miss G a cash amount for her to get this repaired at a manufacturer's garage 
of her choice. 
When the car was returned to her, Miss G pointed out a scratch on the bonnet which she felt 
had been caused by the garage, this was polished out but became visible again after some 
poor weather. Miss G also had the garage repair the leather trim around the gear stick as 
this had also come loose and wasn't like it when she had given the car to the garage. 
Miss G complained to Zenith about how long the claim had been taking and the issues she'd 
experienced.  Zenith apologised for the fact further repairs were required and sent Miss G a 
cheque for £150 compensation for the inconvenience she'd been caused. 
A couple of months later, Miss G arranged for her local manufacturers' garage to fix the 
damaged headlight. At this point she was told the previous issues she'd noticed with the 
alignment of the bumper were caused by a poor body work repair. Miss G complained again 
to Zurich and it asked the garage to arrange for a quote to put right the damage. There was 
a six-week delay before Zenith authorised the repair but Miss G had use of a courtesy car 
during this time. 
Zenith recognised that the overall claim had been ongoing for quite sometime and it still 
needed to arrange for the scratch to the bonnet to be repaired. It offered Miss G a further 
£200 compensation to reflect the ongoing frustration and inconvenience she'd been caused. 
The repair to the bonnet was completed a month later. 
Miss G brought her complaint to us while the repairs were ongoing. Our investigator looked 
at everything that happened but felt overall the amount of compensation Miss G had been 
offered was fair for the issues she'd experienced. The investigator recognised Miss G had 
been put to some inconvenience having to repeatedly take the car to be repaired and chase 
progress. She also recognised the fact Miss G had said she'd been caused a lot of stress 
and anxiety, having to take some time off work as a result. Miss G did not agree the amount of compensation reflected the stress and anxiety she'd 
been caused, and she thought it should be increased dramatically. Miss G commented that 
had she not had her headlight fixed she could have been driving a damaged car where the 
bumper could have fallen off at any time. She also said she went on holiday but this was 
ruined because of the ongoing claim. 
Miss G said she thought compensation of £10 per working day for six months would be 
sufficient to cover the calls and working hours she'd lost having to deal with the issue and go 
to different garages. She also said there should be a fair payment for the stress she was 
caused while she was on holiday. She also pointed out the car had to be fixed at a 
manufacturers garage of her choice as Zenith's repairers had tried and failed to fix the 
issues many times. 
Our investigator said that she didn't think the compensation should be increased, so Miss G 
asked for the case to be looked at by an ombudsman.
The case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will be upholding Miss G's complaint but I won't be asking Zenith to do anything more. I'll 
explain why.
Having looked through everything it's clear that this claim took longer than it should have 
done and there were issues with the standard of the initial repair, which took quite sometime 
to resolve. Zenith has accepted those issues were caused and from what I can see, it did 
what it could to put things right each time Miss G raised her concerns. There was a delay in 
the final repairs being approved and Zenith have acknowledged that.
As far as I'm aware, all repairs have now been completed. So, what's left for me to decide is 
if the amount of compensation Zenith has offered is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case. 
Miss G has set out how she would like to be compensated. I appreciate her reasoning 
behind this but i won't be awarding compensation in this way. When thinking about 
compensation, I need to consider both what Miss G has said about how the situation has 
impacted her and what the business has done to try to put matters right.
I agree Miss G has been caused some inconvenience and has had to spend time taking her 
car to be repaired and chase the progress of the claim at each stage. However, i also need 
to take into account that Miss G has had use of a courtesy car and therefore has still been 
able to go about her day to day business while the repairs have been taking place. I wouldn't 
therefore consider £10 per working day over a six-month period to be a reasonable amount 
of compensation. This payment amount is sometimes referred to as a 'loss of use' payment 
which can apply when someone is completely without use of a vehicle. For the reasons set 
out above I don't think it applies in this case. 
Miss G has explained in detail how this claim has impacted her. I'm sorry to hear this and I 
hope, now the repairs have been completed, she has started to feel better. I've taken this 
into account when reaching my decision on fair compensation. I must make Miss G aware 
however, that while I understand she has worried about what could have happened had the poor body work repair not been noticed by the manufacturer's garage, i have to limit my 
consideration to what actually did happen.
Putting things right
Overall having looked at everything I agree with Miss G that the initial poor repair of her car 
caused a number of issues which took quite some time resolve. She was inconvenienced, 
above what a normal repair should have caused.  However, I'm also mindful of the fact 
Zenith apologised for the issues caused and recognised the impact on Miss G by awarding 
compensation. I think Zenith did what it could at each stage to put things right. It arranged for 
the car to be inspected and for the repairs to be completed. It's arguable at times it could 
have acted more quickly than it did, but it acknowledged this. 
While I appreciate the impact Miss G has explained this had on her, I think the total amount 
of £350 compensation Zenith Insurance plc has offered is fair to reflect the trouble and upset 
she has been caused. So, I won't be asking it to pay anything more. 
My final decision
I uphold Miss G's complaint against Zenith Insurance plc. But, other than it making sure the 
further compensation payment of £200 offered to Miss G has been paid, I don't require it to 
do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman