DRN-3702308
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with how HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct (First Direct) has 
handled her fraud claim.
What happened
In September 2021, Mrs H fell victim to two scams. 
The first scam happened on 14 September 2021 and involved a fraudulent email that 
appeared to come from the NHS and offered a Covid passport for £1.99. This email was 
sent by scammers and contained a link which took Mrs H to a screen that asked for her bank 
card details  in order to pay the £1.99. Mrs H realised shed been the victim of a scam the 
same day and called First Direct. As a result, her debit card was cancelled with a 
replacement card issued.
A few days later on 17 September 2021, Mrs H was called by someone pretending to work 
for First Direct. They told Mrs H that her account had been compromised and convinced   
Mrs H to share her secure key passcode from her mobile banking app. Using this passcode, 
they were able to move over £18,000 out of Mrs Hs account.
The funds were sent to an existing saved payee of Mrs Hs  who Ill refer to as C. C was 
also contacted by the scammers, who convinced her to move the money shed received from 
Mrs H on to another account  which the scammers controlled. C received a call from her 
bank (not First Direct) as the movement of the money out of her account appeared 
suspicious, and following a conversation with her bank, C became aware shed been the 
victim of a scam. 
Mrs H was made aware of the situation and called First Direct, who confirmed that she 
hadnt spoken to a genuine First Direct employee and that it was likely that she was also a 
victim of the scam.
Mrs H says her first call with First Direct (in relation to the second scam), happened at 
around 2:30pm on 17 September 2021  which was a Friday. Mrs H says that as part of this 
call, First Direct agreed to cancel her debit card and she was promised a call back from First 
Directs fraud team.  After two hours, having not received a call back, Mrs H contacted First 
Direct again. In this call Mrs H was told that the fraud team only work Monday to Friday so 
she wouldnt get a call until the Monday, as shed called outside of their working hours. 
The next day, Saturday, Mrs H called First Direct to check no other transactions had come 
out of her account. At this point First Direct identified some transactions that were made with  
Mrs Hs debit card which she didnt recognise. Later that same day Mrs H received calls from 
First Direct. During these calls more information was requested about the scam and Mrs H 
was told the card transactions of over £800 had been refunded to her account. Mrs H was 
also told shed get a call the following week, so she let First Direct know that she would be 
out of the country from Sunday (the next day).
On the Tuesday, Mrs H called First Direct again, as she hadnt received the expected call 
back. At this stage Mrs H was told that the fraud team wouldnt usually call her and that she 
would receive a letter sharing the outcome of her fraud claim. 
On the Wednesday, Mrs H called First Direct again to get an update on her fraud claim. She 
was told that the fraud team were still investigating the claim and that she would get a letter 
within seven days. Mrs H told First Direct she wanted to raise a complaint about the service 
shed received and was put through to their complaints team. Mrs H raised several complaint 
points including; First Directs failure to make promised call backs, that First Direct had said 
theyd stopped her debit card when they hadnt and her overall dissatisfaction with how 
theyd handled her fraud claim.
First Direct provided their written response to Mrs Hs complaint which addressed the 
following points:
Mrs H had been given a full refund of the funds lost to the scam, totalling just over 
£18,600.
First Direct didnt agree that Mrs H had been promised a call back, but accepted she 
was incorrectly told she would be contacted very quickly. They accepted they 
shouldve been clearer about how and when she would be contacted and paid £25 as 
a goodwill gesture.
First Direct explained that Mrs Hs fraud claim initially went to a team that looks into 
vishing scams. They had reviewed her case and decided to provide full refund. Mrs H 
would only have been contacted if they needed more information. As it was a full 
refund, they would contact her by letter which takes five working days.
They disagreed that theyd told Mrs H they would stop her debit card. First Direct said 
there was no reason to believe her debit card details from her replacement card had 
been compromised, so there was no reason to stop it. 
Also, because there was no reason to think her card had been compromised, they 
wouldnt have checked her account for card transactions as part of her fraud claim. 
However, they had refunded the debit card transactions that Mrs H says she didnt 
make.
Mrs H wasnt happy with First Directs response, so she brought a complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into Mrs Hs complaint and upheld it. They recommended that First 
Direct pay Mrs H an additional £75 for the poor level of customer service shed received  
taking the overall compensation to £100. The investigator didnt agree that First Direct had 
told Mrs H theyd cancel her card or promised her a call back. But they felt the poor 
communication about timescales had added to Mrs Hs distress.
Mrs H disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying the level of compensation 
recommended was an insult.
As the case couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im conscious that Ive summarised the two scams Mrs H was the victim of without going into 
full detail of what happened in the scams themselves. Ive done this because at its core,   
Mrs Hs complaint is about how First Direct handled her fraud claim, the level of customer 
service she received from First Direct and her dissatisfaction with their processes and 
procedures. So, while the scams are important, Im focusing my decision on addressing the 
core of Mrs Hs complaint to us.
For completeness, First Direct have fully reimbursed Mrs H for the funds she lost to the 
scammers and made an interest adjustment to her savings account for the time the money 
was out of her account, so Mrs H is back in the financial position she wouldve been in if the 
scam hadnt happened. And, their refund is in line with what I wouldve recommended if I 
had upheld her complaint relating to the return of the funds lost to the scam. 
First Directs processes and procedures
A number of Mrs Hs concerns are around First Directs processes and procedures. Shes 
unhappy that Cs bank talked to C straight away and spent significant time on the phone with 
C discussing the scam and next steps. Whereas, when Mrs H reported the second scam to 
First Direct, the details were taken, but Mrs H was unable to talk to First Directs fraud team 
directly. She feels this caused her additional stress.  
I think its important to explain what we can and cannot look at in considering Mrs Hs 
complaint. I cant comment on or make recommendations with regards to a First Directs 
operational processes or procedures. So, while I appreciate Mrs Hs frustration that she 
wasnt able to contact First Directs fraud team directly and felt First Directs processes 
provided little or no reassurance at such a stressful time, it isnt something that I can make 
an award or recommendation for. Also, I cant compare First Directs processes to that of 
another bank, or say theyve acted unreasonably because they follow a different process. 
In this case, First Direct took the details of Mrs Hs scam (albeit not in the level of detail she 
wouldve liked), completed an investigation into her fraud claim and reached an outcome 
which they communicated to Mrs H. From what Ive seen First Direct have taken appropriate 
steps in dealing with Mrs Hs fraud claim. I realise that Mrs H is going to disagree with this 
and that part of her complaint was aimed at ensuring other customers dont have the same 
experience she did. However, Im unable to give Mrs H the answer or satisfaction that she is 
looking for in relation to this complaint point.
The level of customer service Mrs H received
I have though, considered the level of customer service Mrs H received from First Direct with 
regards to promised call backs, poor communication and incorrect information.
First Direct have accepted that they provided Mrs H with incorrect information, by saying the 
fraud team would call her. Also, by suggesting she would be contacted quickly, when 
actually she was likely to only be contacted once they had reached an outcome to their 
investigation or if they needed more information. Overall, I think First Direct shouldve been 
clearer with Mrs H right from the start with regards to the process, the timeframes involved 
and how and when she would hear from them. I think that this poor service added to Mrs Hs 
distress, at an already stressful time.
Mrs H also raised a point regarding First Direct telling her theyd cancelled her card, when in 
fact they hadnt. Having listened to the calls Mrs H had with First Direct in relation to the 
second scam, I dont agree that First Direct told Mrs H they would cancel her card. In the 
initial calls there was no indication that Mrs Hs new card details had been compromised only 
her bank account, so I dont think it was unreasonable that First Direct didnt cancel her card.Mrs H has been very clear that she feels £100 compensation is an insult and isnt sufficient 
based on the distress shes experienced. However, the awards we make are modest and Im 
conscious that most of Mrs Hs distress was caused by the scammer and the potential worry 
that she might not get her money back. But, based on the customer service points that I 
think First Direct couldve handled better, Im satisfied that the £100 recommended by the 
investigator is a fair award in the circumstances. This is not in addition to the £25 First Direct 
already offered Mrs H.
Putting things right
To put things right HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct (First Direct) should pay Mrs H 
£100 compensation. They can deduct the £25 they offered, if theyve already paid it to      
Mrs H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First 
Direct (First Direct) and require them to compensate Mrs H, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman