DRN-2438276
The complaint
Mrs W complains that National House-Building Council (NHBC) still hasnt resolved an issue 
at her property, after a claim was first made on her building warranty policy in 2009. 
What happened
In 2009, Mrs W made a claim on her ten-year building warranty policy due to rainwater 
ingress at her apartment. NHBC undertook repairs across the block of apartments.
In 2014, Mrs W informed NHBC the initial works hadnt resolved the issue at her property, 
and it undertook further repairs. In 2016, Mrs W informed NHBC its further repairs hadnt 
resolved the issue either.
In 2017, NHBC accepted the previous repairs hadnt gone far enough, and it gave Mrs W 
£500 to apologise for the delays in her claim. NHBC appointed a contractor to carry out 
further repairs. 
In January 2019, Mrs W reported further water ingress at her property, consistent with the 
previous issue. NHBC attended the property, and it concluded its previous repairs hadnt 
failed. In July 2020, NHBC also explained that it was unable to deal with a new issue as 
Mrs Ws cover had ended before 2019, and it said this new issue wouldnt have been 
covered by the policy anyway.
Mrs W brought a complaint to this service. She says the matter isnt a new issue or a new 
claim, but rather, NHBCs previous investigations hadnt identified the true source of the 
water ingress. Mrs W says the issue only occurs in storm conditions and the cause was 
never confirmed. She says water is still entering in the same way and place.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt think it should be upheld. 
Because Mrs W disagreed, her complaint was passed to me to decide.
Following a discussion with NHBC, Ive already put the following to Mrs W:
- When NHBC provided its file to our service, it accepted its conclusions in July 2020 
were premature and further investigation is necessary. NHBC says it did contact 
Mrs W after she had brought her complaint to us, to confirm it would investigate 
further.
- NHBC says it also contacted the managing agent to confirm it needed access to the 
building, to carry out water testing. NHBC says it also requested a copy of the lease, 
so if its found that the issue is new and a common parts issue, it could consider 
assessing this under the cover for common parts. NHBC says no response was 
received from the managing agent, and it didnt pursue the matter after our 
investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
- I explained I was satisfied Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld on the basis NHBCs 
conclusions were premature, i.e. whilst NHBCs repairs hadnt failed, it hasnt been 
established what the cause of the current water ingress is, and whether the issue 
should have been addressed as part of the previous claim or during the previous 
investigations. Given the water ingress is in the same location, I considered it 
reasonable for NHBC to determine these matters.
- I explained, to put matters right, NHBC needs to determine the cause of the current 
water ingress and decide whether it should have previously addressed the issue 
within the ten-year warranty period. 
- I explained that if, after further investigation, NHBC remains of the opinion the water 
ingress is a new issue thats been raised outside of the ten-year cover period, or it 
concludes the issue is simply not covered by the policy, and Mrs Ws remains 
unhappy, she can make a further complaint about that matter. 
- I acknowledged there had now been a further two-year delay in terms of reaching this 
point, from when the further water ingress was brought to NHBCs attention in 2019. 
Based on the submissions so far, I was persuaded that NHBC should pay Mrs W 
£1,000 compensation in total, to acknowledge her overall experience since 2009. 
£500 has already been paid, leaving a further £500 to be paid.
- I explained NHBC had agreed with my conclusions.
In response, Mrs W said greater clarity was required about the following:
- Mrs W says the building surveyor found that a latent defect in the balcony above, had 
the potential to cause water ingress. She says NHBC was under a legal obligation to 
pursue this lead, and to carry out a water test to prove conclusively whether this was 
the cause of the water ingress.
- Mrs W says if the defect in the balcony isnt the source of the water ingress, NHBC 
must continue its investigations under the existing claim, and in a timely manner. 
Mrs W is of the view her claim can only be closed once she is fully satisfied.
- Mrs W accepts a further £500 compensation for the delay and inconvenience. 
However, she says the nuisance and neglect she suffered is another matter.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having already set out my thoughts to both parties, Ive focused on Mrs Ws further 
comments. 
To be clear, Im satisfied NHBC needs to take steps to determine the cause of the current 
water ingress. It then needs to decide whether the issue should have been addressed as 
part of the original claim, or if a separate issue, whether it should have been addressed 
under a new claim before the cover had ended (bearing in mind the issues that were 
reported during the period of cover).Should Mrs W be unhappy with NHBCs further investigation and findings, she can make a 
new complaint about that. If a further complaint is referred to our service, well consider the 
submissions of both parties to decide if NHBCs further investigation has gone far enough 
and whether its conclusions are fair. At this time, Im satisfied I dont need to make any 
further directions, as to do so would be pre-empting the outcome of NHBCs further 
investigation.
Given the delays since January 2019, it follows that NHBC should endeavour to conduct its 
further investigation, and provide its findings to Mrs W, in a timely manner. However, as 
previously highlighted to Mrs W, NHBC requires the cooperation of the managing agent. 
Ultimately, if Mrs W accepts this final decision and further delays follow, she can make 
another complaint in respect of those delays if she wishes to do so.
Mrs W says she will accept the further £500 compensation for the delay and inconvenience 
shes suffered, but she would also like compensation for nuisance and neglect. However, 
Mrs W hasnt provided any further information. So, it remains my view that £1,000 fairly 
acknowledges her overall experience so far.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is National House-Building Council should:
- complete further investigations to determine the cause of the current water ingress, 
and decide whether the associated repairs should be covered as part of the claim 
that was made within the ten-year warranty period, or under a new claim that it 
should have logged before the cover expired; and
- compensate Mrs W a further £500 (in addition to the £500 paid in February 2017), to 
acknowledge her overall experience since the claim was first made in 2009
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman