DRN-4281021
The complaint
Mr B, in his capacity as the director of a limited company R, complains that Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus Bank (Cashplus) wont refund a transaction 
he didnt authorise. 
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving my reasons for my decision:
In March 2023, Mr B received a text message that appeared to come from Cashplus 
 the scammer had spoofed Cashpluss number and so the text message appeared 
in the same thread as genuine messages from it. The message said that Cashplus 
would contact Mr B shortly to discuss unauthorised activity on Rs account, and to 
share the one-time passcode (OTP) to cancel the transaction as well as the debit 
card.
Soon after, Mr B received a call from someone purporting to be from Cashplus. 
Again, unbeknownst to Mr B, the number had been spoofed. The caller knew some 
of his personal information as well as Rs account information and said theyd called 
in relation to suspicious activity on the account. When instructed, Mr B shared the 
OTP to cancel the transaction and his card. After the call ended, Mr B became 
suspicious and realised hed been scammed when he discovered a card payment of 
£4,275 had left the account.
Cashplus declined to refund Rs loss; it said Mr B had shared the OTP which was 
then used to verify the payment and so it shouldnt be held liable.
Our investigator upheld the complaint as they didnt agree with Cashplus that Mr B 
should be held liable. Cashplus disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), R isnt liable for 
payments it didnt authorise, unless Mr B (acting on Rs behalf) failed with intent or 
gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account or keep the account 
security details safe.
To consider a payment authorised, the PSRs explain that Mr B must have given his 
consent to the execution of the payment transaction  and that consent must be in 
the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed between him and Cashplus.
The transaction in question was made using a debit card. I also understand that it 
was a card not present transaction, i.e., without involving the physical card and its 
associated PIN. To establish the agreed form and procedure for online card 
payments, Ive reviewed the terms and conditions that Cashplus has referred us to. 
They say that card payments can be authorised by following the instructions provided 
by the retailer and providing relevant card details. I take that to mean the long card 
number, CVV code, expiry date, the billing address, and entering the OTP if 
prompted.
Mr B says that other than the OTP, he didnt share any other details with the caller. 
And that he shared the OTP thinking it was needed to cancel the fraudulent 
transaction and his card. Im not persuaded that Mr B completed all the steps in the 
form, and in accordance with the procedure, required to consent to making the 
payment. Someone else used his card details on the retailers website. And from 
what hes told us about what happened at the time, I dont think Mr B could 
reasonably be described as having given someone else permission to go through the 
form and procedure to make this payment on his behalf either. He shared the code 
believing it was required to cancel the transaction and his card, not for a payment to 
be made to a certain merchant. So, under the PSRs, the payment transaction is 
considered unauthorised.
Ive gone on to consider if theres anything else under the PSRs that fairly means 
Mr B could still be held liable for this unauthorised payment. For example, if Cashplus 
can show he failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with the terms of the 
account or keep the personalised security details safe. While Cashplus hasnt 
explicitly argued this, it seems some of its submissions allude to this.
I dont find that Mr B failed with intent to keep his security credentials safe. I say this 
because he believed that the information hed been asked to share was necessary to 
secure Rs account. So, in his mind, he was safeguarding the account.
I also dont find that Mr B failed with gross negligence. Hed received a text message, 
which appeared to come from Cashplus, telling him it would shortly call him. So, he 
was expecting the call. He was also expecting to share the OTP when it came 
through. From what Mr Bs described, the scammer already had information about 
him and R when they called him. I think its likely the fraudster already had the card 
details before, and they called to get the OTP necessary to make the payment. 
Cashplus has argued that Mr B shared the OTP despite the text message making it 
clear that it was to verify a payment, not to cancel a transaction or the card. Mr Bs 
explained that he focused on the code as soon as the message came through 
without reading the rest of it, as he was expecting it. Having considered these 
circumstances, I can see how Mr B trusted it was all genuine  the call as well as the 
preceding message seemed to have come from Cashpluss genuine number; and the 
message had already instructed him to share the OTP during the call when 
requested  I think lots of people would have done the same. 
While its arguably careless not to stop and read the entire message carefully, the 
test Im considering here is whether Mr B acted with a very significant degree of 
carelessness to conclude he failed with gross negligence. Here, I can understand how Mr B simply shared the code when he trusted the caller was from his bank, the 
message came through as expected, and he thought he was acting to sort out 
fraudulent activity on the account. I dont think that Mr B seriously disregarded an 
obvious risk in the circumstances. And taking everything into account, Im not 
persuaded that he failed with gross negligence. It also follows that, in line with the 
PSRs, I dont consider R can be fairly held liable for this unauthorised payment and 
Cashplus needs to put things right.
Putting things right
To put things right, Cashplus needs to:
reimburse R the unauthorised transaction of £4,275; and
pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible) 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus Bank to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman