DRN-2648256
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly declined its 
requests for a payment holiday and a Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan.
Miss H is Cs director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
C took out a small business loan with HSBC in January 2019. When experiencing some 
difficulty in maintaining the monthly payments in early 2020, Miss H approached HSBC with 
a view to taking a payment holiday. 
Miss H says that in response to her request, HSBC suggested that she apply for a loan 
under the government-backed Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) Scheme that 
had recently been launched. So, with the aim of refinancing Cs business loan, Miss H 
submitted an application for a loan of £10,500 under the CBIL Scheme on 24 April 2020. But 
HSBC declined the application a few days later, on the basis that it didnt allow a CBIL to be 
used for the refinancing of existing debt.
Miss H didnt think HSBCs stance was correct. She thought the government had launched 
the Scheme to help struggling businesses, like hers, and couldnt see that the rules 
prevented the refinancing of existing debt. HSBC dealt with the matter as a complaint.
While HSBC was looking into things, the government launched an additional loan scheme  
the Bounce Back Loan (BBL) Scheme. Loans for £50,000 and under were no longer 
available under the CBIL Scheme, and instead had to be taken out under the BBL Scheme.
HSBC subsequently advised Miss H that a CBIL was no longer available to C and suggested 
that she apply for a BBL instead. It apologised for any incorrect information shed been given 
and paid £200 for any inconvenience this had caused. 
Miss H remained unhappy and referred the complaint to us. She thought that HSBC had 
been wrong to decline the CBIL application and that if the bank had handled things properly 
at the outset, C couldve obtained a loan prior to the rule changes. She said the BBL 
Scheme wasnt helpful for C as loans were capped at a maximum of 25% of the companys 
turnover  which meant it wouldnt be able to borrow what it needed to repay its existing 
loan. And she said that when following up on the payment holiday request, HSBC had told 
her that this would be subject to a credit check. She didnt think that was fair and said shed 
not proceeded for fear of an adverse effect on her credit file.
One of our investigators reviewed Cs complaint. In summary, she said:
The refinancing of existing debt wasnt prohibited under the rules of the CBIL 
Scheme, but lenders had some discretion as to whether they wished to offer this. As 
HSBCs internal criteria didnt allow a CBIL to be used for the refinancing of existing 
debt held with the bank, she didnt think it had declined Cs request for a CBIL 
unfairly. And she thought £200 was fair compensation for any inconvenience caused 
by the conflicting information Miss H had been given about the matter.
HSBCs payment holiday process  in particular the requirement for a credit check  
had understandably discouraged C from accessing the support it needed, which was 
unfair. So she thought that a payment holiday ought to have been put in place, which 
wouldve been for a maximum of six months under HSBCs policy.
The failure to agree a payment holiday hadnt left C any worse off financially, as it 
hadnt made any payments to the loan for eight months and hadnt incurred any 
additional costs as a result either. But she thought HSBC should remove any adverse 
credit information it had reported about the missed payments, and pay C an 
additional £100 compensation for the inconvenience it had been caused. 
HSBC accepted our investigators recommendation, but Miss H didnt. She said that there 
wouldve been no issue if HSBC had processed the CBIL application in April 2020. She 
thought a 12-month payment holiday ought to be put in place, and that a fairer compensation 
figure would be £500. So she asked that an ombudsman review the complaint, and it was 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for largely 
similar reasons. Ill explain why.
The CBIL application
While it was possible to use a CBIL to refinance existing debt, lenders had some discretion 
as to whether they would approve applications for this purpose. HSBC has evidenced that 
under its policy, it didnt allow the refinancing of existing debt held with the bank. As that was 
the sole purpose of Cs application, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong in declining the 
request in line with its policy.
I understand from what Miss H has told us that she still believes C was eligible for a CBIL 
and suspects there were ulterior motives for the banks decision. But as Ive said, I can see 
that the decision was made in line with the banks policy  and Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that there was any other reason. While C may well have met some (or even all) of the 
Scheme eligibility requirements, this doesnt mean that any application it made ought to have 
been granted. It was eligible to apply  but the decision to lend still rested with HSBC. And 
as Ive explained, when considering an application, the bank was entitled to apply its own 
criteria relating to the use of funds for refinancing.
So while I appreciate why Miss Hs disappointment at being unable to obtain a CBIL from 
HSBC at a time when her business was in need of support, I dont think the bank handed Cs 
application unfairly.
The position may have been complicated somewhat by HSBC explaining that, in light of the 
launch of the BBL Scheme, it was no longer able to consider a CBIL application from C as 
the criteria had changed. While this was correct, I dont think the change to the CBIL criteria 
had any bearing on Cs application  as it had already been declined by this time anyway, on 
the basis that HSBC didnt allow refinancing of existing bank debt.Alongside this, HSBC has accepted that its communication with Miss H about the CBIL 
wasnt as clear as it couldve been. The CBIL application was made at the banks suggestion 
 when really it ought to have known that it wouldnt approve a request for refinancing, so 
this was a waste of Cs time. The bank has already apologised and paid £200 compensation 
for any inconvenience caused to C, which I think is fair in the circumstances.
The payment holiday request
Prior to the CBIL application, Miss H had asked HSBC for a payment holiday on Cs loan as 
it was experiencing some financial difficulty and was unable to meet the monthly payments 
as they fell due.
As Ive noted above, I dont think it was appropriate for HSBC to redirect Miss H to the CBIL 
Scheme given that it ought to have known an application to refinance the loan wouldnt be 
approved (based on its own criteria). I do, however, recognise that the bank was operating in 
unprecedented circumstances arising out of the pandemic, including the rapid launch of the 
two government-backed loan schemes. But in terms of how it dealt with C, I think it should 
simply have considered the payment holiday request. And in the circumstances  particularly 
bearing in mind the impact of the pandemic on C  I think it wouldve been fair for the bank 
to have granted the request.
While its up to HSBC to decide how it facilitates changes to its products, in this instance I 
can see how the need to set up a new loan  and in particular, apply a credit check  
deterred Miss H from proceeding with her request for a payment holiday. That led to C being 
impacted unfairly  as it couldnt access the support it needed.
If things had gone as they should have, HSBC couldve put in place a payment holiday for up 
to six months on Cs existing loan. Thats its policy on small business loans, like Cs. That 
seems reasonable to me, and is in line with broader industry practice. I know Miss H thinks a 
12-month period would be fair. But I understand that is based on the deferral period of the 
CBIL, which  for the reasons Ive explained  isnt something that C was entitled to. So I 
think it would be fair for HSBC to put C in the position it would be in if a payment holiday had 
been agreed in line with its usual policy  so, a maximum of six months.
While the complaint has been ongoing, C hasnt made any payments to the loan. So, albeit 
informally, C has had the benefit of a payment holiday  a period of time in which its not had 
to make any payments to the loan. I know Miss H is unhappy that interest has continued to 
accrue on the loan. But thats how a payment holiday typically works. Ive not seen that 
HSBC has applied any additional amounts on top of those that would always have accrued. 
So I dont think C has lost out financially.
The only difference is that by missing payments without agreement, adverse information will 
have been reported to credit reference agencies about the loan account. So I think it would 
be fair for HSBC to remove that, as its already agreed to do. And while the non-payment 
has continued for longer than the six-month period that would most likely have been allowed, 
in the circumstances I think it would be reasonable for HSBC to remove all adverse 
information from July 2020 to date.
Had the payment holiday been set up when it shouldve been, I think C couldve avoided a 
lot of the subsequent contact and correspondence it entered into with the bank. So for the 
inconvenience caused by the failure to agree the payment holiday initially, I also think it 
would be fair for HSBC to pay C a further £100 on top of the £200 its already paid. I know 
Miss H also thinks this should be higher, particularly in view of the time its taken to resolve 
the complaint. But I can only award compensation for the impact of any errors made by the 
bank, and in that respect I think £100 is fair. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Pay C a further £100 compensation on top of the £200 its previously paid; and
Arrange for the removal of all adverse credit information recorded since July 2020 in 
relation to the small business loan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman