DRN-1804677
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs D complain that Santander UK Plc, trading as Alliance & Leicester at the time, 
mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1999, Mr and Mrs D took out a PPI policy when they were arranging a re-mortgage on 
their home. The sale took place in a meeting at a branch. The policy covered Mrs D for up to 
twelve months if she was unable to work because of an accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case. I know this will be a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs D but, having done so, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
This sale took place a long time ago. So its not that surprising that not all the documentation 
likely to have been completed at the time is still available. Businesses arent required to keep 
these sort of records for such lengthy periods. In these circumstances, I need to decide what 
I think is most likely to have happened, based on the limited information available to me.
Although there isnt a copy of Mr and Mrs Hs PPI application form, Im aware that one would 
need to have been completed and sent to the insurer at the time of the sale. And from 
seeing such application forms for other consumers from around this time, together with this 
Services knowledge of the normal sales process that Santander used, I think it would have 
been clear from this application that the PPI was optional and separate from their mortgage 
application.
Santander has been able to provide a copy of the mortgage application form Mr and Mrs D 
signed at the time. And I can see that theres a section in this dealing with PPI where a box 
has been ticked to confirm that this cover was required and that a PPI application form had 
been completed. Santander has also provided a copy of a form detailing the advice given to 
Mr and Mrs D by the mortgage advisor they saw. This form has again been signed by 
Mr and Mrs D and I can see that in the PPI section in it there are ticks to show that the PPI 
policy was recommended to them and that this recommendation was accepted.
Mr and Mrs D have said that they were told they needed to take out PPI with their mortgage. 
And I accept that its possible the mortgage advisor wrongly misled them in this way. But this sale took place a very long time ago and memories of what was said in such meetings does 
tend to fade with time. And I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that this is what is 
most likely to have happened, based only on what Mr and Mrs D say they remember now.
So, based on all the information Ive seen, I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs D actively 
decided to take the PPI knowing they could choose not to. But I can understand why they 
may not be able to recall this now.
This was an advised sale where Santander recommended the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs D. 
This means that Santander had to ensure that it was suitable for them.  I cant now know all 
the steps Santander took to ensure that the policy was suitable. But from what I know of 
Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been 
suitable. I say this because:
 
Mrs D appear to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations. And Ive noted that Mrs D made a claim in 2002 on the 
PPI policy which resulted in twelve monthly payments being made, totalling £1,800.
 
 Mrs D says she cant recall if she was eligible for sick pay at the time of this sale. 
But, in any case, this policy would have paid out in addition to her sick pay and for 
longer than this is likely to have lasted. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment 
 and one where ones home is potentially at risk - so I think Mr and Mrs D would 
have valued the extra security the policy gave them.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs D. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, it could have been cancelled if it no longer met their 
needs.
 
Santander also needed to give Mr and Mrs D enough information for them to decide if 
they wanted to take the policy. I think its possible that the information Santander gave them 
could have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable for them, I dont think that better information would have changed their 
minds about taking it. I still think theyd have thought the policy gave them useful benefits at 
an affordable cost.
This means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Santander does have to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because:
 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because Santander didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Santander has already basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 What the business needs to do
Santander has to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Santander should also 
payback to Mr and Mrs D any extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs D the extra they paid each month because 
the commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander 
should also pay Mr and Mrs D 8%* simple interest on each payment until the date this 
compensation has actually been paid to them. So, if this payment hasnt already been made, 
Santander should update any compensation offer it has previously made to reflect the 
additional interest that has since accrued on that offer.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs D can claim back the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Santander UK plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman