DRN-3759052
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have failed to refund over £43,000 he lost 
as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Mr B lost over £43,000 from his HSBC accounts after making 
several payments to a scammer TorexFx (also known as 42 Marketing Limited) from his 
credit card, Bonus Saver account and his Advance current account:
Transactions from HSBC credit card:
Date Merchant Amount Running total
01/01/2020 XCHANGEPRO £2,614.83 £2,614.83
05/02/2020 XCHANGEPRO £5,277.43 £7,892.26
Total £7,892.26
Transactions from Advance current account:
Date Merchant Amount Running total
10/01/2020 42Marketing Ltd £7,500 £7,500
25/03/2020 42 Marketing Ltd £5,000 £12,500
Total   £12,500
Transactions from Bonus Saver account:
Date Merchant Amount Running total
24/01/2020 42Marketing Ltd £5,000 £5,000
19/02/2020 42Marketing Ltd £18,000 £23,000
Total   £23,000
Mr B realised he had been scammed when he was unable to make withdrawals and 
received no further contact from TorexFx.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought that HSBC ought to have questioned Mr B 
about the £7,500 payment he made on 10 January 2020, as this ought to have appeared 
unusual and out of character. Had it done so, the investigator thought HSBC could have 
prevented the scam, so he asked it to refund all the payments Mr B made to the scammer. 
HSBC disagreed, so the matter was escalated to me to determine. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in October 2022. I said I was minded to 
uphold it and set out the following reasons:
First, I note that the payments Mr B made to the scammer via his credit card were not 
included in the original investigation carried out by the investigator. It isnt clear why, 
as these payments also formed part of the same scam. And these payments all form 
part of the money that Mr B has subsequently lost to the scam, as the amounts spent 
on his credit card have since been re-debited by HSBC. Mr B also included the credit 
card payments in his original submissions to this service when outlining which 
payments he was disputing. As such, I will be considering them within my decision.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr B for the 
purposes of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at 
the time. This is because they were made by him using the legitimate security 
credentials provided by HSBC. However, Ive considered whether the bank should 
have done more to prevent Mr B from falling victim to the scam, as there are some 
situations in which a bank should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly out 
of character. 
I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated bank such as HSBC that Mr Bs account was being subjected to unusual 
and uncharacteristic activity. There were reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or 
scam, and therefore justify an intervention (such as phoning him in order to ask 
discreet questions about the nature and purpose of the payments).
I appreciate there was no warning about TorexFx or 42 Marketing Ltd on IOSCOs 
Investor Alerts Portal or the FCA website until after he had made his payments. So, I 
do not think HSBC ought to have automatically blocked the payments that were 
made to the broker. The first payment Mr B made as part of the scam was for 
£2,614.83 on 1 January 2020 from his credit card. This wasnt made directly to the 
broker but was instead paid to a cryptocurrency exchange platform 
(XCHANGEPRO). The amount wasnt particularly unusual, especially to have been 
spent on a credit card. So, I dont think this payment ought to have prompted an 
intervention by HSBC. 
However, the second payment Mr B made to the scammer was from his HSBC 
Advance account for an amount of £7,500, which I do think was a trigger for potential 
fraud. This is because it was a large international payment being made to a new 
payee. The amount being paid was out of character for Mr B, as his previous 
Advance account statements show that he rarely spent over £1,000. The largest 
payment he had made within the 12 months prior was for £2,956.52 on 19 March 
2019. Therefore, a payment of £7,500 represented a 150% increase in spending 
from his next largest payment. 
So, Im satisfied the £7,500 payment marked a significant deviation from Mr Bs 
normal spending pattern, such that HSBC ought to have identified the transaction to 
42 Marketing as unusual and uncharacteristic. Therefore, it would have been 
reasonable for HSBC to have properly questioned Mr B before processing the 
payment he made to the broker in order to satisfy itself that all was well. However, no 
attempts to contact Mr B were made by HSBC.
If HSBC had fulfilled its duties and carried out due diligence by contacting Mr B and 
asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to suggest he wouldnt have 
been forthcoming about what he was doing. In such circumstances, whilst the bank 
had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could 
have invited him to check whether the broker was in fact regulated overseas as Mr B 
says they had stated on their website. 
HSBC could have also explained its own customer experiences with merchants like TorexFx, in that customers would often be prevented from withdrawing available 
balances. After all, at that time, there was information in the public domainwhich a 
bank ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought notabout the very high 
risks associated with investment scams, including many warnings of potential fraud.
If HSBC had questioned Mr B about the payment, it would have likely discovered that 
he had recently been directed by a third party broker to invest money via a 
cryptocurrency exchange (which is a very common hallmark of investment scams). It 
would have also become apparent that the second payment Mr B was attempting to 
make was via different means again. The broker was also purporting to offer services 
to UK customers such as trades in forex, commodities, stocks, bonds and exchange 
traded funds, yet they were not regulated by the FCA. Therefore, I think there would 
have been reasonable grounds for suspicion here, and HSBC ought reasonably to 
have provided a scam warning in light of the information known to it about scams at 
that time. 
If HSBC has given a warning, I believe that Mr B would have paused and looked 
more closely into ToreFx before proceeding. Ive seen little to suggest that he was 
willing to take high risks or had a history of speculative and high-risk investments or 
gambling. It seems more probable that he would have made further enquiries into 
investment scams and whether or not TorexFx was regulated in the UK or abroad. 
Mr B could have discovered they were not (indeed, he has since provided evidence 
to show that he approached CySec after discovering the scam to ask if the broker 
was regulated by them, to which he discovered they werent). In other words, I am 
satisfied that a warning to Mr B from his trusted bank would probably have exposed 
the brokers false pretences, which would have prevented any further losses. 
So, but for HSBCs failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, 
Mr B would probably have not lost his money. I therefore intend asking it to refund all 
the payments Mr B made to the scammer (across his current account, savers 
account and credit card) from the £7,500 payment made on 10 January 2020 
onwards.
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still 
take responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000). I have therefore considered whether Mr B 
ought reasonably share some of the responsibility for the loss he has sustained. 
HSBC submit that a deduction should be made from any refund awarded to Mr B as 
he failed to carry out sufficient due diligence before parting with his money. They also 
say his profession would have given him more knowledge that an average lay person 
looking to invest their money.
However, Mr B has explained that he did carry out research online about the broker 
before parting with his money. He said he did not find anything negative at the time. 
And having carried out historic searches of both TorexFx and 42 Marketing Ltd, it 
seems there was no other evidence (such as online forums) that Mr B could have 
found at the time that would have indicated the broker was not legitimate. So, even if 
Mr B failed to carry out sufficient due diligence, it wouldnt have made a difference 
here as it wouldnt have likely led to him discovering it was a scam. He had also been 
told about the broker by a family member (who has also been scammed) who at the 
time recommended TorexFx as a good investment opportunity due to the returns he 
appeared to be making.
I also do not think Mr Bs profession means that he ought to have been less 
susceptible to the scam. He has explained that his role does not have anything to do with financial risks and is simply operational. And Ive not seen anything else to 
suggest that Mr B had prior knowledge that should have prevented him from falling 
victim to this sort of scam. He said he wasnt promised any specific returns from the 
broker that would have appeared unrealistic, and said the returns seemed to match 
what the markets were showing at the time. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded there was any contributory negligence on this occasion; 
Mr B was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. The bank 
was the professional in financial matters; Mr B was a layperson. Therefore, I do not 
consider it would be appropriate to reduce compensation in these circumstances.
Finally, given that the majority of the scam payments were bank transfers made 
directly from Mr Bs accounts, I have also considered whether HSBC ought to have 
considered refunding the payments under the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code. However, given the payments were either made via Mr Bs credit card 
or via international transfer, the Code would not apply to any of the transactions.
I note that Mr B disputed the credit card payments with HSBC, which have since 
been re-debited from his account. And I understand he has raised a separate 
complaint to HSBC about its handling of this, as it failed to tell him it would be taking 
back both credits that had been applied to his account. As this forms the basis of a 
separate complaint, Im unable to address this here as HSBC have not had a chance 
to respond to it. 
However, I have thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover 
Mr Bs credit card payments via either a chargeback or section 75 claim. However, in 
these circumstances, Mr B used his credit card to pay a legitimate crypto-exchange 
platform (XCHANGEPRO) before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammer. So, he wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim in these 
circumstances because the company he paid has seemingly provided the services as 
intended (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think HSBC were 
under any obligation to pursue a chargeback claim for Mr B.
Similarly, in terms of a potential claim being made under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, the Act requires there to be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in 
order for a successful claim to be made. However, in these circumstances, the 
recipient of the funds from the credit card was the crypto platform; it was not TorexFx 
as the supplier. And given theres no evidence (such as representation documents or 
declarations of deposit) to demonstrate that the payments were made to TorexFx 
from Mr Bs credit card, there is therefore no valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement, and neither is there a transaction that has been financed by that 
agreement in these circumstances. As a result, any section 75 claim would have 
likely failed, so I do not think HSBC have acted unreasonably by failing to pursue 
such a claim either.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties. Mr B responded accepting my 
provisional findings. HSBC offered no further comments by the deadline set in my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party had any further comments or evidence to submit, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out above. 
I therefore uphold this complaint and will be asking HSBC to put things right for Mr B in line 
with my directions below.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund the payments Mr B made to the scammer from 10 January 2020 onwards:
- For the payments made from Mr Bs Bonus Saver account, HSBC should also pay 
interest at the applicable account rate from the date the payments were made to the 
date of settlement.
- For the payments made from Mr Bs Advance account, HSBC should also pay 8% 
simple interest per annum from the date the payments were made until the date of 
settlement.
Refund Mr B the £5,277.43 loss incurred from his credit card and rework his account 
to reimburse any interest and charges levied as a result, as though the payment had 
not taken place.  
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on any payments Mr B made towards this credit 
balance as a result of the scam, from the date he paid them to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman