DRN-4361654
The complaint
Mr S complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) gave him incorrect information about a foreign 
currency transfer. 
What happened
Mr S called HSBC to enquire about exchange rates as he wanted to transfer a large sum of 
USD from his Forex account to another account held in Pound Sterling. Everyone agrees Mr 
S was given the correct information for both conversion rate from USD to GBP and the final 
total amount he would be paid. But he was also incorrectly told the equivalent conversion 
rate for GBP to USD.
Mr S told us he wouldnt have gone ahead if hed known the correct equivalent figure for the 
conversion of GBP to USD. He wants HSBC to either reverse the transaction and repay the 
original amount of USD to his Forex account or to repay him an additional sum of £5,400 to 
compensate for the amount he expected to get had the incorrect equivalent rate from GBP to 
USB hed been given been applied.
HSBC said Mr S accepted the rate on the call and the funds were transferred. Although they 
understood hed been given an incorrect equivalent rate he had been advised of the amount 
to be transferred on the call. They apologised for the inconvenience and credited his account 
with £100 compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought, although HSBC made a partial 
mistake when giving the equivalent rate from GBP to USD, the amount Mr S received was 
the amount he was quoted. So, she thought, the outcome of the transfer was the same as it 
wouldve been had the incorrect equivalent not been given. So, she didnt uphold Mr Ss 
complaint. And her view didnt change after listening to the call recording.
Mr S asked for an ombudsmans decision. He told us his decision to proceed was based 
solely on the incorrect information HSBC had provided. He sent a spreadsheet with the daily 
exchange rates for two months after the transfer. He said his loss was the difference in GBP 
he could have received by making the conversion on any day after the day in question in the 
following two months. He didnt think the loss was speculative. Rather Mr S thought hed 
suffered a real loss resulting from the wrong information provided to him verbally and he had 
to make a decision there and then. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear HSBC made a mistake here with the equivalent rate for this transaction. But they 
didnt make a mistake when they gave Mr S the final amount hed receive. Mr S was told the 
correct amount hed receive and agreed to proceed knowing that. 
In the call recording Mr S is told the rate changes every 40 seconds. When hes given the 
erroneous equivalent rate for GBP to USD he tells the operative to go ahead. After that, but 
before the transfer goes ahead, the operative advises Mr S of the final amount hell receive 
into his sterling account. Its slightly less than the sum initially given when the rate is quoted 
in USD to GBP, a minute or so before. The operative asks OK and Mr S replies OK. 
As much as I understand Mr Ss frustrations with what he was told about the equivalent rate, 
he agreed to the transfer knowing the amount of Pound Sterling hed receive. So, I cant 
agree theres been a loss to him here as the amount hes received is the amount he was told 
he would immediately before he agreed to go ahead. For these reasons I dont agree theres 
been any loss. So, Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything further in terms of redress.
In respect of the incorrect conversion to the equivalent rate, I think the compensation HSBC 
have already paid is a fair amount to reflect the inconvenience and frustration to Mr S here. 
Its the sort of award Id have suggested had it not been offered. So, Im not going to ask 
HSBC to do anything more.
Given my findings, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman