DRN-1394779
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited has declined a claim made for his 
mobile phone unfairly. 
Reference to Assurant includes agents acting on its behalf. 
 
What happened
Mr Js insurance is provided with his bank account. On 16 May 2019 he made a claim as his 
iPhone XS Max had been knocked into the sea when at the beach. The claim was 
considered and declined as the insurer had obtained information the iPhone claimed for had 
been sold to a phone recycling service days before Mr J said the loss occurred. 
The insurer tried contacting Mr J to discuss the claim; it couldnt get through and so declined 
the claim accordingly as the loss hadnt happened. It also recorded the claim on fraud 
databases. Mr J informed the insurer that he had previously lent the phone to a friend and he 
must have had a different phone returned to him (an iPhone 6) without him realising. He had 
requested it back to take some pictures while at the beach as the lens was cracked on the 
phone he had. He since discovered his friend had sold his phone and returned him a 
different one. 
The insurer reconsidered the claim and asked Mr J for further information. It also removed 
the fraud marker. During the course of its investigations, it transpired Mr J had lent the 
phone to a party he had later suspected of burgling his property in April 2019. So the insurer 
declined the claim on the basis that Mr J hadnt taken care of his phone - it had been in the 
possession of someone he didnt trust at the time it was sold. Not happy with that Mr J 
complained; he was also unhappy that the fraud marker against is name had meant other 
insurances had been declined and bank accounts closed. Assurant stood by its decision to 
decline the claim and didnt make any award for other insurances being cancelled or bank 
accounts closed as Mr J couldnt provide any evidence of that.   
Our investigator was satisfied the claim had been declined fairly and he didnt uphold Mr Js 
complaint. Mr J has asked for the matter to be referred to the ombudsman. He feels unfairly 
treated because he didnt know the difference between the iPhones. And he says at the time 
of lending his phone he was still friends with the person he lent it to, but the breakdown in 
the friendship came later, at which point he asked for his phone back. Mr J says he got the 
phone back within a couple of weeks but didnt realise it was the wrong phone.  And there 
was time between asking for and obtaining the phone because of other matters he needed 
to attend to  work, the burglary and his relationship. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for any complaint about a declined insurance claim is the agreement 
between Mr J and Assurant  the policy terms and conditions. Those terms contain a clause 
in relation to fraud, including that Assurant will not honour a claim if false or inaccurate 
information is provided and fraud identified. 
When Mr J initially submitted a claim he did so for an iPhone XS Max and gave Assurant the 
IMEI number. As result of its investigations it discovered the phone had been sold on a 
phone recycling site just a matter of days before the loss was reported to have happened. 
Consequently, it concluded the loss couldnt have happened in the manner described by    
Mr J or at all. I dont find Assurant acted unfairly when reaching that conclusion based on the 
information it had. And the policy terms do set out that such matters may be passed to fraud 
prevention agencies.  I therefore dont find that it was wrong to decline the claim or record 
the information it did. 
Mr J got in touch and provided further information  that he had lent the phone to a friend 
and so he must have had a different phone returned to him and he hadnt realised. As a 
result of the new information Assurant agreed to reconsider the matter, which I find fair. I 
know Mr J is unhappy that it was assumed he should know the difference between various 
iPhones when he primarily uses android. But I agree with Assurants points about that. It 
transpires the phone returned to Mr J was an iPhone 6. Mr J has indicated that he has a 
number of phones that he uses for his business including more than one iPhone XS Max. 
There is a substantial difference in size between the phones, and the operating screens are 
entirely different  one having a border around the phone visual the other extending to the 
edge of the screen. Nevertheless Assurant appears to accept that Mr J hadnt intentionally 
misled it and agreed to remove the fraud marker. Again I find this fair. 
Mr J has said the fraud marker being placed on his account has caused him difficulties with 
other insurances and bank accounts. But he hasnt provided any evidence in support of that, 
either to Assurant or us. In the absence of such evidence, it is difficult to conclude Mr J has 
suffered a loss. In any event, I have found above that Assurant hadnt done anything wrong 
when recording information on fraud databases at the time. 
Mr J says that he had lent his phone to his friend. But he hasnt been entirely clear about 
when that was. There is some suggestion this was in March 2019 but also that Mr J couldnt 
remember.  It would appear the phone was in his friends possession when his friend was 
taking illegal substances at Mr Js house without his permission. Mr J also suspected his 
friend had been involved in a burglary at his house. Again Mr J hasnt been clear about when 
this happened. When speaking with our investigator Mr J mentioned both 2nd April and mid-
April. What is clear is that at some point after lending his phone, Mr Js friendship broke 
down. 
The terms of the policy require Mr J to take care of his device. Specifically it says a claim 
may be declined if he has knowingly taken a risk with it or leaving it with someone not known 
well. I accept at the time it was lent, Mr J may have trusted his friend. But it is clear that 
relationship broke down a few weeks later, such that I think it could reasonably be argued 
that leaving the phone in his friends possession would be considered knowingly taking a risk 
with it. 
Mr J says he asked for his phone and other items back upon the relationship break down, 
but he couldnt get the phone immediately as he had other matters to attend to. I accept Mr J 
may have had other priorities. But it nevertheless remains that Mr J allowed the phone to be 
retained in the possession of someone who he knew to have carried out illicit activities, and 
he later suspected of burgling his house. And it remained in that persons possession for 
several weeks, allowing the switch of phones to take place. Given that, I dont find 
Assurants reliance on the exclusion that Mr J didnt take care of his phone to be unfair; Im 
satisfied he knowingly took a risk with it when leaving it in that persons possession.  
It follows that I dont find Assurant was acting unfairly, unreasonably, or contrary to the policy 
terms when declining the claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman