DRN-4273156
The complaint
Mr W has complained about a hire purchase agreement he had with Blue Motor Finance Ltd 
(BMF). He says he shouldnt have been given the agreement. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr W entered into a 5-year hire purchase agreement with BMF to acquire a 
car. The car cost around £21,500 and Mr W paid a £1,000 deposit. Monthly repayments to 
the agreement were around £600, with a total amount payable of around £37,000. 
Shortly after taking out the agreement Mr W contacted BMF to ask what support it offered for 
customers impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. I can see BMF responded to his queries 
asking to speak to him on the phone. I cant see Mr W made further contact for Covid-19 
support.  
Mr W says he settled the agreement in June 2021 because he found a lender under better 
terms. 
In October 2022 Mr W raised a complaint with BMF. He queried the commission BMF paid 
the broker. He said BMFs affordability checks werent sufficient, and that it shouldnt have 
granted him the credit. He also said he didnt have time to go through all the paperwork 
properly. 
BMF said the broker had no influence on the interest rate offered, but there was a £200 
commission payment made, and that this was disclosed. BMF said it carried out credit 
checks including reviewing a payslip and bank statement. It said there wasnt a sign that 
Mr W was in financial distress. It said Mr W e-signed all the documents and he was given the 
opportunity to review them. It said it cant be held responsible for Mr Ws situation having 
changed and that its lending decision was fair. 
Mr W brought his complaint to our service to consider. He said BMF ought to have known he 
couldnt afford the agreement. But he said he needs the car for work and doesnt want to 
lose it. He asked our investigator to focus on the affordability aspect of his complaint, as 
opposed to the other points he originally complained about
Our investigator looked into things. From looking at the credit search provided, he noted 
BMF would have seen defaulted agreements from February 2015 (£305), February 2017 
(£6,196) and May 2018 (£2,737). And that Mr W took out recent borrowing  a credit card 
with a limit of £500 in November 2019; a loan for £1,279 the same month; and a further loan 
for £5,241 the following month. Our investigator thought this should have indicated to BMF 
that Mr W may have been struggling with his finances and that it ought to have asked further 
questions. 
Our investigator noted BMF obtained bank statements and payslip from Mr W, which he 
thought was a proportionate step. Our investigator also reviewed the evidence BMF saw. He 
thought based on what hed seen BMF could have fairly assessed Mr W as having around 
£800 disposable income. He didnt think BMF had been put on notice of any impending 
changes to that and so, overall, he didnt think BMF acted unfairly by granting the finance. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said the agreement was unaffordable. He said his salary was £2,636 
after tax, and there was an additional £137 highlighted by our investigator but this was for 
expenses. Mr W highlighted he needed to take out additional maintenance costs for the car 
costing around £55 per month. He says the bank statement BMF saw demonstrated 
affordability concerns. He highlighted the new high-cost loan of over £5,000, and cash 
withdrawals of around £1,300. He said his living situation was likely to have changed from 
living with his parents when he took out the agreement, and that this wasnt properly 
considered. 
I issued a provisional decision that said:
Weve explained how we consider complaints about unaffordable lending on our website. 
Ive thought about this approach when deciding this part of Mr Ws complaint. 
BMF was required to make sure, via its lending decision, that Mr W could sustainably repay 
the borrowing. The checks that BMF were required to carry out had to be borrower focused. 
So instead of seeing how statistically likely Mr W was to repay the borrowing, it needed to 
assess whether he could sustainably repay the borrowing, taking into account his personal 
circumstances. And it needed to base its creditworthiness assessment on sufficient 
information.
What is considered proportionate will depend on a number of factors such as (but not limited 
to): the type, amount and duration of the credit; the frequency and size of the repayments; 
the total amount payable and total charge for credit; the interest rate and any other costs 
which may be payable; and any other potential adverse consequences for the customer 
arising from a failure to make payment.
In this case, Mr W was asked to pay back around £37,000 over five years with payments of 
nearly £600  a significant commitment over a moderate term. 
Ive reviewed the credit search information BMF has provided. I agree with our investigator 
that the results ought to have prompted BMF to ask further questions. The results show 
three defaulted accounts, recently taken out loans and various balances across different 
types of borrowing. The credit search BMF undertook showed Mr W had over £18,000 
current balance across the borrowing. 
BMF asked Mr W for proof of income by way of a payslip, and it asked for a copy of his bank 
statement as well. I think this was a fair step for it to take given what it had found out on its 
credit search. 
I agree that Mr Ws payslip broadly evidences his monthly earnings of around £2,600. And I 
can see his salary is paid into his account. 
BMF seems to have put most weight on the statement closest to the time Mr W entered into 
the agreement with it, which I can understand as its probably the most representative of his 
circumstances at the time he applied for the finance. This is dated 8 February 2020. Our 
investigator thought Mr Ws disposable income was somewhere in the region of £800 per 
month. But Im not sure the February statement demonstrates thats the case. Or Id at least 
have had further questions from only looking at the February statement. 
From what I can see, Mr W had outgoings of over £1,500 for things like direct debits; 
standing orders; insurances; subscriptions; lending and communications. This is more than half his salary. Of note on the February 2020 statement, I can see there are two first direct 
debits being paid  a loan repayment of around £230 and a credit card payment of £50. So 
around the time Mr W entered into the agreement with BMF hed recently taken on further 
financial commitment. 
I think the calculations of disposable income possibly missed a payment to a short-term 
lender of around £370 and an insurance payment of around £180. Its not clear from the 
statement if these payments were regular or one of expenses. But even putting those two 
payments to one side, Mr W still had over £1,000 going out towards what could well be 
regular expenses. And that doesnt include other regular expenses for things like rent, food, 
travel and so on. Its also concerning Mr W had direct debits returned unpaid in that month 
due to lack of funds. I think this should have been of concern to BMF, and perhaps a sign 
that he was struggling with the extra commitments hed recently taken out. Moreover, Mr W 
says his rent, food and travel costs came to around £1,000 per month. If BMF had asked him 
for an estimate of those costs, I think it would have thought the agreement wasnt affordable 
at around £600 per month. 
I cant see BMF had the statement for the previous month (8 January 2020). If it had it would 
have seen Mr W had outgoings of over half his salary going to gambling sites. So, even 
putting aside the other outgoings, I think if it asked for this statement it likely would have 
come to the conclusion that entering into an agreement with Mr W to pay back £600 per 
month for five years mightve been irresponsible. 
When looking at the previous statement that BMF did have (8 December 2019), I can see 
Mr W had outgoings of over £1,200 for things like direct debits; standing orders; insurances; 
subscriptions; lending and communications. Again, two of these were new direct debits. And 
theres evidence of short-term lending payments as well. So if BMF had asked Mr W about 
his other regular expenditure such as rent, food and travel costs, I dont think it would have 
concluded Mr W could sustainably repay £600 per month for five years. 
Taking everything into account. I think BMFs checks were fair to an extent. But I think it 
ought to have asked Mr W further questions off the back of what it saw. I think it ought to 
have filled in the gaps so to speak. Had it done that I think it would have seen it wasnt clear 
Mr W could sustainably repay £600 per month. It might have seen there were times Mr W 
was spending heavily on gambling. Mr W has explained he had a gambling problem, and he 
borrowed money to gamble. He didnt just pay gambling sites direct. He tells us he also took 
out cash to gamble. Moreover, Mr W would likely have had other expenses off the back of 
purchasing a £25,000 car in addition to the monthly repayments. 
I think the significant regular expenses; the various new credit agreements; the returned 
direct debits; and the reliance on short term lending ought to have prompted BMF to, at the 
least, have asked further questions. Had it done so I think it would have seen it wasnt clear 
Mr W would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing. And theres a good chance it would 
have seen the level of gambling that was going on. 
All things considered, based on what Ive seen, I dont think BMF should have granted Mr W 
the finance. Mr W has now settled the agreement (using other finance). But I think as a way 
to resolve the complaint, BMF should repay Mr W the interest portion of what hes paid to it, 
together with interest. Adverse information, if there is any, relating to the agreement should 
also be removed from Mr Ws credit file. 
Mr W agreed with the provisional decision. BMF had nothing further to add. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for responding to my provisional decision. Seeing as neither party 
has submitted anything materially new for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
Treat payments made over and above the purchase price of the car as 
overpayments. Any overpayments should be refunded to Mr W. 
Interest* should be added to the above amount at a rate of 8% per year simple, from 
the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information about the agreement from Mr Ws credit file. 
*If BMF considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr W how much tax its taken off. It should also give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman