DRN-3731487
The complaint
Ms P says Sainsbury's Bank Plc (SB) unfairly defaulted her loan account without giving her 
the chance to agree a repayment plan. 
What happened
Ms P took out a £15,000 loan in February 2017 and made her monthly repayments on time 
until 7 April 2020. She then contacted SB to explain she was struggling financially because 
of the pandemic. SB refunded the late fee and agreed to push back the due date of the next 
payment to give her more time. It asked that Ms P stay in touch. It issued a default notice on 
14 May 2020. Ms P missed the subsequent payment due 5 June 2020 so her account 
remained in arrears. 
During this time the bank introduced Emergency Payment Freezes (EPF). An EPF is SBs 
term for a Covid-related payment deferral. A Covid-related payment deferral was based on 
guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority to support borrowers directly impacted 
by the pandemic. It meant no payments needed to be made, no adverse information would 
be reported to the credit reference agencies, and the arrears would be dealt with at the end.
Ms P had two EPFs applied to her account, the first between July and September 2020 and 
the second between November 2020 and January 2021.  Ms P did not make her payment in 
October 2020. Ms P called SB the day before her 5 February 2021 payment was due to 
explain she was about to find out if she had a new job, so the bank put her account on hold 
temporarily, but Ms P did not get back in touch or make any payment. SB defaulted the 
account on 14 February 2021. No payments were received from Ms P prior to SB selling the 
debt in May 2021.  
Ms P says she should have been given a chance to agree a payment plan, key letters SB 
sent to her were received long after their printed dates due to the pandemic and the bank 
should have done more to agree a way forward with her. It did not take into account her 
excellent payment history prior to the pandemic. And even prior to her missing the payment 
due on 5 February 2021 SBs letter of the previous day referenced transferring the account 
to recoveries and that her credit file would be affected for six years.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Ps complaint. He said SB had offered Ms P two EPFs 
but her account remined in arrears after the second expired and so SB was entitled to 
default it, as it opted to. And Ms P had not got back in touch about her employment 
circumstances. He said the letter of 4 February 2021 did not relate to the subsequent debt 
sale in May after the account defaulted, rather to the fact the debt was passing from 
collections to the banks recoveries team.
Ms P disagreed with this assessment, maintaining SB did not do all it ought to have to help 
her, unlike other lenders. The letter of the 20 February 2021 states the parties were not able 
to agree a suitable repayment plan  this is a false statement as no plan was ever put 
forward. She asked for an ombudsmans review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Ms Ps complaint.
I am satisfied that SB followed the correct process to default Ms Ps account and that it was 
entitled to do so when it did. There is no fixed course of action when a customer falls into 
financial difficulties, rather there are a number of steps a lender can consider. I find SBs 
decisions followed the regulatory guidelines on forbearance, including the additional 
requirements put in place due to the impact of the pandemic. 
Ms P points out that no payment plan was ever put forward to her  but from the contact 
notes I can see the last action was with her to confirm whether or not she had successfully 
secured employment in the week following her phone call on 4 February 2021. There is no 
record that Ms P did this. And I think it is fair and reasonable that SB could not present or 
assess any payment plan options without knowing Ms Ps income position. I think based on 
what it did know of her circumstances and her arrears status it was fair for SB to conclude it 
was most likely Ms P would be unable to make her repayments, and so in line with the 
guidance set out by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), for it to default the account 
at this stage.
As the investigator has already explained the terms of Ms Ps account allow it to sell the debt 
to a third party as it did in May 2021. Ms P also flagged that there were delays in the postal 
service but I cant hold SB liable for that, and it has evidenced the timely dispatch of all the 
required letters and notices. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman