DRN-2175187
The complaint
Mr P complains that a car acquired with finance from Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr P was supplied with a used car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with BMF.
Mr P experienced issues with the car and a number of faults were identified by a local 
garage, who said the car wasnt roadworthy.
BMF agreed to accept a rejection of the car and asked Mr P to release it. Mr P had, in the 
meantime, reported his concerns about the car to trading standards, who had commenced 
an investigation. Because of this, Mr P didnt release the car to BMF.
BMF spoke to trading standards and was advised that an inspection of the car would be 
carried out on 2 May 2019.
BMF issued its final response on 13 May 2019. It said when the car was returned it would 
refund Mr P his monthly payments for the time the car hadnt been on the road.
Mr P retained the car and BMF retracted its offer to accept rejection. Mr P stopped making 
payments so BMF took action to repossess the car in July 2019 and recorded adverse 
information on Mr Ps credit file.
Mr P brought his complaint to this service. He wants a refund of all the payments hes made 
plus compensation for the expense of hiring a car whilst hes been unable to use this one.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She didnt think BMF had acted fairly by 
repossessing the car when it was aware of the ongoing trading standards investigation. She 
said the fairest way to resolve things was for BMF to remove any adverse information from 
Mr Ps credit file.
Mr P didnt agree. He said he wanted to be returned to the position he was in before he 
entered into the agreement.
BMD didnt agree either. It said it had accepted rejection of the car and had agreed to return 
payments for the time the car had bee off the road but had made it clear to Mr P that the car 
had to be returned to complete the rejection. BMF said Mr P failed to return the car to 
complete the rejection so it wrote to him and advised him that if he refused to return the car, 
he would remain liable for monthly payments until it was returned.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. BMF accepted a rejection of the 
car, so I wont be focussing on this aspect. The crux of this complaint is whether BMF acted 
fairly in accepting a rejection and subsequently repossessing the car, and whether Mr P 
should receive a refund of his monthly payments and/or compensation.
Ive reviewed the correspondence between Mr P and BMF. BMF advised Mr P in April 2019 
that it would accept rejection, and that if he was to be refunded his first three months 
instalments, he should release the car immediately. I can see that Mr P advised BMF that 
trading standards was looking into things and I can also see that BMF was advised by 
trading standards that an inspection would be carried out in early May 2019. 
Based on what Ive seen, BMF waited until the inspection had taken place before writing 
again to Mr P and reiterating the basis on which it would compensate him if he released the 
car.
Ive taken into account what Mr P has told this service about why he didnt release the car. 
Hes said that following the trading standards inspection of the car, it was condemned. He 
says he was told by trading standards that if he released the car, they would cease the 
investigation. So, he held on to the car until the investigation had been completed.
I understand why Mr P was reluctant to release the car. But having asked to reject the car, 
and having had that request accepted by BMF, Im of the view that Mr P shouldve released 
the car as soon as trading standards completed its inspection of the car in early May 2019. 
Im not persuaded that it was reasonable for Mr P to hold on to the car beyond that point. I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest that trading standards advised Mr P not to release the 
car.
I appreciate that Mr P stopped making payment because he didnt think he should have to 
continue paying for a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. However, Im of the view that 
BMF made it clear in correspondence that it would continue to hold Mr P liable for payments 
if he didnt return the car. On balance, I dont think BMF acted unfairly in terminating the 
agreement because Mr P failed to release the car to complete the rejection and stopped 
making payments, causing the account to fall into arrears. 
If Mr P had released the car and completed the rejection, I would have expected BMF to 
refund his monthly payments for the time the car wasnt on the road. However, because Mr 
P didnt release the car, the rejection process wasnt completed and was instead superseded 
by termination of the agreement. Because of this, I dont think its reasonable to ask BMF to 
refund any monthly payments in these circumstances.
That said, Im of the view that Mr P shouldnt have to bear the consequences of non-
payment of monthly instalments by having adverse information recorded on his credit file. 
The car was of unsatisfactory quality and BMF was made aware that a trading standards 
investigation was underway. Had the car been of satisfactory quality then Mr P wouldnt 
have had to make a complaint to trading standards. In the circumstances, I think BMF should 
remove any adverse information from Mr Ps credit file as a fair resolution. 
  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint. Blue Motor Finance Ltd must 
remove any adverse information from Mr Ps credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman