DRN-4336502
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that AXA Insurance Plc declined a claim they made under 
their home building insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R made a claim to their insurer, AXA for damage caused by a leak in their roof 
following heavy rain. 
AXA said no insured event had occurred - and so it declined their claim. 
Mr and Mrs R asked us to look at their complaint. Our Investigator thought AXAs decision 
was reasonable and so didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs R disagree and want an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA, like most if not all insurers, provides cover for specific insured perils. In other words, 
sudden unforeseen events such as storm, fire or flood. 
And so it isnt unusual for AXA to exclude cover for damage caused by other means such as 
wear and tear or gradual deterioration of materials. AXA sets this out under its General 
Exclusions of the policy: 
We will not pay for any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense caused by:
1. Gradual deterioration/maintenance
Wear and tear, depreciation, the effects of light or the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet
rot or fungus and costs that arise from the normal use, maintenance and upkeep of 
your buildings and its contents. 
And AXA sets out under the policy on page 4 the following condition:
Taking care of your property
You and your family must take all reasonable precautions to avoid injury, loss 
or damage and take all reasonable steps to safeguard all the property insured 
from loss or damage.
You must maintain your property in a good state of repair, as not doing so 
could invalidate your insurance. If we determine that your property hasn't 
been maintained to a good state of repair, we may refuse to pay any claims, 
and cancel your policy, giving you 21 days' written notice sent to the last 
known email address we have for you.
Mr and Mrs R made a claim under the Home Assistance part of their policy. This has a 
separate underwriter - and so the complaint Mr and Mrs R has raised about that is being 
dealt with separately. But from that claim came Mr and Mrs Rs claim against their home 
insurance policy and so there is an available report from the appointed contractor who 
carried out temporary repairs in January 2023. 
We ask three questions when considering storm damage claims to help decide whether an 
insurer has acted reasonably - and in line with the policy. These are: 
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then we think the claim is likely to succeed. But, if 
the answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to 
be covered.
AXA defines storm as follows under the policy:
A period of violent weather defined as:
Wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph) which are the equivalent to 
Storm Force 10 on the Beaufort Scale.
Snow to a depth of at least one foot (30cms) in 24 hours.
Torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour.
Hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
AXA checked local weather reports for the time when the leak damage occurred and found 
no storm conditions had occurred. 
So the answer to the first question is no. 
The roofing contractors findings from January 2023 were that the roof was in very poor 
condition. And so while its possible the answer to the second could be yes, the answer to 
the third question is no. 
So, taking into account all of the information available, I think AXAs decision to reject the 
claim was reasonable and in line with the policy. And Mr and Mrs R didnt hold accidental 
damage (AD) cover under their home insurance policy, so their claim for internal damage 
couldnt be considered for AD. 
I understand Mr and Mrs R will be disappointed. But this means Im not asking AXA to do 
any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman