DRN-4006261
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund the money he lost after falling victim to a 
vehicle purchase scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties and was outlined in 
the provisional decision I issued on 3 April 2023.
In summary, Mr R thought he was buying a used car advertised for sale by a private seller 
on a social media marketplace. The seller told Mr R hed recently retired abroad, making the 
car unsuitable for him as it was a right-hand drive model. The seller explained the vehicle 
was in storage in the UK with a logistics company based near the South West Coast and 
that the logistics company would be handling the sale on his behalf.
Mr R was told that the purchase price would be £14,500 including shipping and that he 
would have a five-day inspection period where he would be able to get a full refund if he 
wasnt satisfied with the cars condition.
Mr R says he did check the logistics company on Companies House. He adds that its 
website looked authentic. He explained hed received a report on the condition of the car, a 
contract that looked like a genuine legal document and that hed seen the sellers passport. 
Mr R explained that he cross referenced the picture of the seller from the passport to a 
profile hed found on a business networking social media website and everything matched 
up. Mr R asked about the insurance arrangements during the test drive period and was told 
that it would be insured for him.
On 18 January 2022, Mr R made a payment of £14,500 to the account details hed been 
given by the logistics company. The account he paid was in a different name to the logistics 
company. On the day Mr R was expecting the car to be delivered, he received a message 
explaining that the vehicle transporter had been involved in an accident and the funds would 
be returned to him within 72 hours. When Mr R didnt receive his money back and was 
unable to contact anyone, he suspected hed been the victim of a scam.
HSBC tried to recover the funds that had been sent but sadly none remained. The bank 
concluded it was not liable for refunding the loss. It felt Mr R could have taken more 
responsibility and conducted more checks before making the payment. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She noted that 
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (the CRM Code). This means HSBC has made a commitment to reimburse customers 
who are victims of authorised push payment scams except in limited circumstances. Our 
Investigator didnt think any of those circumstances applied here.
She thought HSBC should have done more to warn Mr R before he made the payment. She 
was persuaded that Mr R did enough to ensure he was purchasing a genuine vehicle and 
communicating with a genuine seller. She didnt think the situation was too good to be true.
HSBC didnt accept the Investigators view and asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
Ombudsman. It said its warning stressed the importance of making sure the goods and 
business are genuine and highlighted the need to be wary of deals that seemed too good to 
be true. It said the purchase price for the car was considerably under its market value. It 
thought the scam would have been uncovered if Mr R had tried to see the car in person. It 
also challenged what Mr R saw when checking Companies House, pointing out the 
information that came up for the logistics company when the bank checked was concerning 
as it returned two companies with the same name, one which had been dissolved around 
four years before. It said that if Mr R didnt see this and question it further in his own mind, 
he had missed an obvious red flag.
Mr R said the way the car was to be delivered to him is how online car sales companies 
operate. He pointed out there are many companies on Companies House with variations of 
the name of the logistics company he thought he was dealing with and the one he saw 
matched the paperwork and contracts the fraudster provided. He explained he didnt feel the 
cars price was too good to be true and simply thought hed found a good deal. He included 
links to other adverts hed found where there was no real difference in the price. He said the 
warning wasnt specifically about buying a car and for him, this was a routine payment made 
without any call or other warning from the bank.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was referred to me.
I considered the matter afresh. An extract from my provisional decision that explains the 
reasons why I was proposing a different outcome to our Investigator is included below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the
time.
Its not in debate that Mr R has fallen victim to a scam. Its clear he was tricked into making
the payment. But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for Mr R to be refunded by the bank.
I must consider whether HSBC has any responsibility to refund the money that he sent.
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint, I am unable to fairly say
that HSBC should be held liable for all of Mr Rs loss. I can appreciate this will be a very
disappointing outcome for Mr R, especially as it is less favourable than the position our
Investigator proposed, so I will explain my current thinking.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them, even though they
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether HSBC
should have fully reimbursed Mr R under the provisions of the CRM Code and whether it
ought to have done more to protect Mr R from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The CRM Code
HSBC is a signatory of the CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers whohave been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited
number of circumstances. HSBC has argued that exceptions apply to this case.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish
that*:
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by
failing to take appropriate action in response to the information provided
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted
was legitimate
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think HSBC failed to provide Mr R with an
effective warning at the time he made the payment and that failure is likely to have had a
material effect on preventing the scam. But I also consider the concerns HSBC has raised
about the legitimacy of the transaction are enough to support its position that Mr R lacked a
reasonable basis for belief. I will explain why.
Did Mr R have a reasonable basis for belief?
I accept that this was a multi layered scam with each phase of it being deliberately designed
to lull the victim into a false sense of security. But I need to consider not just whether Mr R
believed the payment was for genuine goods or the business he was paying was legitimate,
but whether it was reasonable for him to do so.
Its clear that Mr R did do some checks into the situation and I do recognise he has never
purchased a car before. I dont expect Mr R to know exactly what checks to do to uncover a
scam risk he is unaware of. I have thought carefully about the information that was available
to Mr R at the time to consider whether he should have scrutinised the situation more
closely. Having done so, I am not persuaded that Mr R had a reasonable basis for believing
the payee was the person the he was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods
or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Mr R says the car was not too good to be true and hes provided details of other similar
vehicles being advertised for sale at a comparable price. But having looked carefully at the
adverts Mr R has provided, I dont think he is comparing like for like. 
His search shows the model of the car and the mileage, but adding in the precise 
specification of the car he thought he was buying makes a considerable difference to the 
price. The bank suggested the market value for this vehicle at the time of the scam was 
between £18,000 and £23,000. This is broadly in line with the industry vehicle valuation 
guides I have checked, which place the market value of this vehicle at the time of the scam 
towards the higher end of this range. On this basis, I think the price the car was advertised 
for was low and this is a potential indicator that the situation is not what it seemed. Even if 
Mr R didnt realise it at the time, this was a significant discount for a vehicle of this 
specification. When saying this, I have taken into account the sellers story that the car was 
unsuitable for their needs which might have otherwise explained a keen price for a quick 
sale.
But I am mindful that people can and do find good deals on online marketplaces. 
A potentially low price in and of itself isnt enough to say that Mr R didnt have a reasonable basis for belief. I have to consider the price in the round, whilst also thinking about whether
there was anything else about the situation that ought to have caused Mr R to question the
deal further before deciding to go ahead.
When requesting payment, the fraudsters told Mr R to pay the escrow account given in the
invoice. However, the account details it provided were for a completely different company to
the logistics company Mr R thought he had been corresponding with. I think Mr R should
have been more concerned about that than he was. He took a lot on trust. From researching
the company online, they appear to be a landscaping company.
Mr R explained that he was following the instructions he was given as per the contract.
Whilst I do accept that buying a car online has become far more common in recent years,
I think its also fair to say that in these circumstances  particularly where the selling
business isnt well known and isnt known to the customer  you would expect a higher
degree of caution on the customers behalf, to ensure that all other elements of the sale
appear legitimate and that any red flags are questioned. Mr R was spending a lot of money.
Hes explained he felt reassured because both the logistics company and the seller were
saying the same things to him about what to expect, but I dont think this was enough to give
him confidence that the situation was legitimate.
There has been considerable discussion about exactly what Mr R checked and saw on
Companies House. The logistics company had a similar name to at least three other
companies on Companies House. It seems likely this was deliberate subterfuge on the
fraudsters behalf. I have listened to a recording of a conversation Mr R had with our 
Investigator where they both checked the website at the same time and clarified exactly what
Mr R saw. I accept, on balance, that the record Mr R checked was for an active company
involved broadly in transportation. But there were inconsistencies with this record that Mr R
would not have needed to look far to find. Mr R thought he was dealing with a company
based near the South West Coast. Hes said the details he checked matched to the contract
he was given. But from what I have seen and heard, the business he checked was based in
the North East of England. This information was not hard to find on the Companies House
record and Ive not seen anything to show that Mr R noticed this discrepancy or that he
made further enquiries into it.
Im also mindful that Mr R did ask why a logistics company would carry out a car inspection.
The response he received from the seller was defensive and didnt answer the question
directly. I think Mr R had some awareness that something was potentially amiss. When he
spoke to our Investigator, Mr R described the situation as on the border of being feasible.
He also said on Facebook Marketplace, Id been to see other cars err for sale and
because this one was in storage, I was like, well okay, you know, I sort of, my mind had
convinced itself that it was legit because Id been to see other ads on Facebook Marketplace
people selling cars that were genuine [sic].
Overall, I think Mr R took a risk when making this payment. I dont dispute that he made
some checks, but in my view he was also acutely aware of some things that didnt add up.
Effective warnings
Even though I dont think Mr R had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment,
he may still be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money lost if HSBC didnt meet its
obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings.
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey,
they should provide effective warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration ofwhether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the
scam.
The CRM code sets out that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand
what actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. As a
minimum, the CRM code sets out that an effective warning should be understandable, clear,
impactful, timely and specific.
HSBC says it did identify a scam risk. It considers the warning that was presented to Mr R at
the time that he made the payment was an effective warning and that Mr R has failed to
meet his level of care because he ignored it.
HSBC says Mr R was presented with the following information:
Take Care When Sending Money Online
If an offer sounds too good to be true, it could be a scam. Use your debit or credit card to get
more protection against fraud.
Only pay by bank transfer if youre sure the goods, service, person or business is genuine.
We may not be able to recover payments that turn out to be fraudulent.
Visit our Fraud Centre to find out more.
I am not persuaded this information is specific and impactful enough to meet the
requirements of an effective warning aimed at disturbing a vehicle purchase scam and I am
not persuaded that Mr R ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate action in
response to it.
I accept the warning is directed at purchase scams where the customer is buying something
at a discounted price. But it fails to really bring alive what a scam of this nature looks like. It
didnt explain that fraudsters can list adverts for cars they dont actually own and ask for
payment upfront through escrow accounts. It didnt explain the steps Mr M could have taken
to verify that the goods or business are genuine. By failing to do this, it makes it much easier
for a customer, like Mr R, not to recognise their own circumstances. Its clear from everything
that Mr R has said that he did not know what scams like this look and feel like. The warning
he was presented with does not make enough impact and did not go far enough to grab
Mr Rs attention.
If HSBC had really brought to life how this scam operates with an effective warning and
given advice on how customers can protect themselves from this type of scam, and then
explained the potential consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment, I think this
wouldve been important contextual information that wouldve affected Mr Rs decision
making. I think Mr R would have most likely followed this advice and taken additional steps
to protect himself.
I dont think the information HSBC provided did enough to make Mr R aware of the risks of
buying a car online. The information Mr R was presented with was not designed to affect his
decision making so that the prospect of this vehicle purchase scam succeeding was
reduced.
I dont think HSBC provided an effective warning to Mr R, or that he ignored an effective
warning in relation to this payment. I am persuaded that an effective warning would have
had a material effect on preventing this payment.Overall, as I dont think Mr R met his requisite level of care, and also that HSBC couldve
done more to protect him, I think a 50% split of liability is a fair and reasonable outcome for
Mr Rs fraud claim under the CRM code.
Should HSBC have done more to protect Mr R from financial harm from fraud?
Outside of the CRM Code, Ive thought about whether HSBC ought fairly to have done more
to find out more about the payment Mr R was making at the time. There is a balance to be
struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising
disruption to legitimate payments. It would not be possible or reasonable to expect HSBC to
check every payment instruction it receives.
Having looked at Mr Rs statements in the lead up to the scam, I dont consider that a
payment of £14,500 was particularly unusual for him. He regularly made payments of this
size, and often larger, in most months. I dont think this payment would have appeared out of
character for Mr R and I dont think it ought to have stood out to HSBC as being a significant
change in the way Mr Rs account ran. As such, I dont think HSBC did anything wrong by
allowing the payment to go through without contacting Mr R to discuss it.
Ive also thought what HSBC did when Mr R reported he had been the victim of a scam.
From what I have seen, HSBC took reasonable steps to contact the receiving bank to try and
recover Mr Rs funds when it learnt of what had happened, but no funds remained. This is
not surprising, as fraudsters typically act very fast to move funds before the victim realises
what has happened.
When our Investigator considered the complaint, she recommended that HSBC should pay
8% simple interest from the date the bank declined Mr Rs claim under the CRM Code to the
date of settlement. But having looked at Mr Rs bank statements, I can see he moved the
money over to make this payment from another one of his HSBC accounts. I think its more
likely than not that the money would have remained in this account but for the scam. As
such, I think the appropriate rate of interest to pay Mr R to compensate him for being
deprived access to these funds is the underlying savings account interest rate.
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mr R. I know this is not the answer he was hoping for.
But I cant fairly hold HSBC responsible for the actions of a fraudster. I can only look at
HSBCs position on Mr Rs fraud claim and its assessment under the CRM Code. For the
reasons I have explained, Im currently satisfied the bank has been able to establish it can
choose not to fully refund Mr R under the CRM Code. 
Whilst HSBC did not provide an effective warning, I dont think the bank is being 
unreasonable by saying that Mr R should have done more than he did to protect himself. 
Im also satisfied HSBC acted correctly when it processed the payment and that it did all it 
could to help Mr R once it knew what had happened. As I think both parties ought to have 
done more here, I cant fairly say that HSBC should have to refund all of the money thats 
been lost.
I recommended that HSBC should refund 50% of the money Mr R lost to the scam along 
with interest at the originating savings account interest rate from the date the bank declined 
Mr Rs claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement. HSBC confirmed it had received 
my provisional decision and agreed it would settle the complaint on this basis. 
Mr R received the provisional decision but took a different view on some points. He asked 
me to consider his position before the case was concluded.He felt hed had a reasonable basis of belief to buy the car and didnt agree that hed been 
acutely aware of some things that didnt add up otherwise he wouldnt have sent the money. 
He explained hed contacted HSBC straight away as soon as hed been told the car had 
been involved in an accident and did not wait 72 hours. He explained HSBC told him that 
some money remained, but not the amount he had transferred.
Mr R suggested in addition to having a reasonable basis for belief he was purchasing the 
car, his personal circumstances made him vulnerable to being scammed. He explained that 
hed been excited to buy his first car as this was something hed never done before. He 
outlined the scale of the illegal operation such as the rigour and professionalism of the 
website and the personnel. He said the documentation he received such as contracts, car 
report and copy passports gave him a false sense of security and that how he perceived 
these factors are circumstantial to him personally, based on his previous experience in life. 
He said that all these factors culminated together in the same few days. 
Mr R explained that hed had sleepless nights thinking about how hed been tricked. He said 
my picture of him in my mind was a sweet old man hopeful to get rid of his car, a person 
I respected because of the picture the scammer had built up and my mind presented me 
with.  Mr R said he didnt want to upset a man who had been messed around before and 
was mindful that all of the research hed done would have been wasted if he lost the deal. 
He said he was vulnerable to the timing and nature of the scam itself, leading to him falling 
for the trap. 
Mr R added that £7,250 is a lot of money to both lose and to get back, especially at a time 
when he was attempting to launch a new business. He said the 8% interest payment was not 
necessary and he would be pleased to simply receive the lost amount returned. 
As both parties have received and considered my provisional decision, I have now reviewed 
the matter afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about everything Mr R has said and described about how this 
experience has been for him. Mr R spoke candidly about how the aftermath of this scam has 
impacted him. Its clear he was unsettled by the experience. Scammers are incredibly clever 
at manipulating their victims and creating a disarming connection. Anyone can fall victim to a 
scam and its hard for consumers to stay one step ahead, especially when fraudsters take on 
all kinds of personas and appearances that have been deliberately designed to lull victims 
into a false sense of security.   
Against this backdrop, Ive considered afresh whether Mr R met the CRM Code definition of 
vulnerable at the time he made the payment. This is an important question because the 
CRM Code says Mr R would receive a full refund of the amount he lost if he was vulnerable 
as set out in the CRM Code. Whilst I have a lot of sympathy for what Mr R has said and 
described, I dont consider he was vulnerable as set out in the CRM Code.  
The CRM Code says that someone is vulnerable if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered.
Its clear that Mr R had no idea that this type of vehicle purchase scam existed before he fell 
victim to it. But I dont think that, in and of itself, is enough to say that he was in a vulnerable situation. Ive thought about what Mr R has described about his life experiences to date. Ive 
also taken into account the complexity and sophistication of this scam. But I dont think I can 
fairly and reasonably conclude that Mr R was unable to protect himself from this type of 
scam. Whilst I do accept vulnerability is dynamic, and that this scam has had a lasting 
impact on Mr R, Ive not seen anything to suggest that he was, for example, lacking in the 
knowledge, skill and capability to engage in financial services. I dont doubt that Mr R has 
been impacted by these events, but not to the extent that he lacked the ability to protect 
himself and make an informed purchasing decision. As I dont think Mr Rs situation meets 
the definition of vulnerable under the CRM Code, I dont think HSBC should refund the full 
loss for this reason. 
In my provisional decision, I explained the reasons why I was not persuaded Mr R had a 
reasonable basis for believing the transaction was legitimate, notwithstanding the checks 
that he did do. I thought the advertised sale price was low when compared to the industry 
vehicle valuation guides for a car of this specification. I noted the escrow account was held 
in a different name and that there were discrepancies on the Companies House record that 
Mr R checked which were effectively hiding in plain sight. I thought Mr R had taken a lot on 
trust and that hed been too reassured by what the logistics company and seller had told 
him. In addition, I thought that what Mr R had said about the purchase being on the border of 
being feasible and his mind convincing himself this situation was legitimate because of other 
positive experiences on the marketplace was indicative of some doubt. 
Even after considering the matter afresh and reflecting on what Mr R has said about being 
reasonable and responsible in other areas of his life, I still think the concerns HSBC has 
raised are enough to support its position that it doesnt think Mr R had a reasonable basis for 
believing the money he sent was for a genuine sale. 
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Mr R from proceeding. But when considering the specific 
circumstances of this case and the factors in the round, on balance, I think that there was 
enough going on and sufficient red flags that Mr R ought reasonably to have taken further 
steps to protect himself. Buying a vehicle, unseen, at a considerable discount was always a 
risk. I think Mr R should have done more than he did to question the deal and to satisfy 
himself that it was legitimate before making the payment.
HSBC had a responsibility to protect Mr R from this type of fraud and the bank has now 
accepted that it should have done more at the time the payment was made. But as I dont 
think Mr R had a reasonable basis for believing the situation was legitimate, I think he should 
share responsibility for the loss, and HSBC is now acting fairly by agreeing to refund him 
50% of it.
For completeness, I have investigated whether HSBC could have recovered any of the 
money Mr R sent, especially as it told him partial funds remained. Whilst funds did remain in 
the receiving account at the time it was frozen, sadly none of those funds were from the 
money that Mr R had sent. His money had already been moved on. This means there are no 
funds belonging to Mr R that could be recovered.
I am sorry this has happened to Mr R. Its not easy to lose money to fraud and I have a great 
deal of sympathy for him. But in the circumstances, , I think a 50% split of liability is a fair 
and reasonable outcome for Mr Rs fraud claim under the CRM code and that HSBC 
shouldnt be held further liable for the remainder of Mr Rs losses.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr R:50% of the money Mr R lost as a result of this scam- £7,250
HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay interest on this amount at the originating savings 
account interest rate from the date it declined his claim under the CRM Code to the 
date of settlement
If HSBC UK Bank Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman