DRN-3450965
The complaint
Miss N complains through her representative that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent her money on
high interest loans she was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
Date of loan Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentDate repaid
Loan 1 1/12/2014 £4,000 36m £180 7/5/2015
Loan 2 8/3/2016 £3,000 48m £120 1/5/2019
Miss N complained to AvantCredit that:
It did not ask for proof of her financial situation; payslips, bank statements etc. in order to 
complete adequate checks.
A sufficient review of her circumstances would have shown that she was not in a 
position to take on another large loan.
It didnt take the necessary steps to ensure she properly understood her obligations.
She advised of difficulties with her repayments but received no assistance.
She was struggling to pay for essentials; priority bills and food etc. due to repayments to 
AvantCredit.
She had to obtain further lending just in order to repay what she owed.
It extended / topped up the loan even though she had difficulty in repaying already.
It didnt ask her if her circumstances had changed at all before extending/topping up the 
loan.
She further said that:
She was in a domestic abusive relationship where financial and coercive control were 
the main themes. Her now ex-partner had full control of her finances and either took out 
large loans in her name without permission or she was left with no option but to take out 
further lending to try make the repayments as she spiralled further into debt.
She had been left with over £45,000 worth of debt and her ex-partner walked away 
when the truth came out, leaving her with a 7 week old baby. Her mental health had 
been hugely affected.
Financially she is still drowning in debt but now had an appropriate plan in place, 
lenders offering further borrowing at high interest helped support and continue the 
cycle of abuse and plunged her further into unmanageable debt.
She repaid loan 1 early (within six months). She struggled to keep up the repayments 
for loan 2 but eventually paid this off within three years.
AvantCredit said that:
Following its creditworthiness and affordability assessment, it concluded that the 
amounts requested, of £4,000 and £3,000 were affordable and sustainable based on 
her financial circumstances.
At no time did it offer loans for an amount higher than it considered she could afford.
Considering the above information, it does not consider that it failed to properly 
assess the affordability of an additional credit obligation for her prior to making a 
credit decision for her loan applications.
Our adjudicator established that AvantCredit hadnt been advised about Miss Ns personal 
situation. However, she said that she didnt think AvantCredit had carried out proportionate 
checks for either loan. These shouldve included obtaining a thorough knowledge of Miss 
Ns financial circumstances  including verifying the information. As a result she didnt 
think that Miss N wouldve been able to sustainably repay either loan.
AvantCredit disputed this  it said that both loans were for debt consolidation. In respect of 
loan 1 Miss N would have been able to pay off two loans and reduce her credit 
commitments to a manageable amount, with reasonable disposable income left over. In 
respect of loan 2 it said Miss N would have been able to consolidate her credit card and 
mail order debts into one payment and be left with a reasonable disposable income.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that for loan 1 I thought, given the evidence there 
was, AvantCredit had made a fair lending decision. But for loan 2 I didnt think it had made a 
fair lending decision.
AvantCredit didnt agree, and made the following comments in respect of loan 2:
Miss Ns salary was above the national average salary in the UK at the time she took 
this loan. So it would not share the view that she was of low income
As Miss N stated that £140 of her expenses relate to her car and she had a hire 
purchase loan at £140 it would consider these two expenses to be the same, so it would 
consider it already accounted for in Miss Ns credit commitments.
On review, if it increased Miss Ns living expenses to £900 to cover what I calculated as 
the actual expenses, with the customers credit expenses post loan being £594 per 
month, the customer would be left with £578 per month, using the net income figure of 
£2,072.  So with the £140 loan instalment it would estimate that she would have at least 
the £578 but up to £718 of income post loan.
Considering she would have all credit commitments, housing and her other expenses 
listed covered by her income, it believes Miss N would have the disposable income 
remaining to repay the loan without resorting to further lending.The second loan was not funded directly after the settlement of the first loan, which 
would be the typical behaviour it would associate with someone in financial distress. 
Miss N had cleared her debts previously, paid back well, as well as having a lower 
overall balance of credit and paying less per month than previously it does not believe 
she looked to be struggling or gave an indication that she could become distressed.
Miss N accepted my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made the following provisional findings:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are: 
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss N would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss N would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Ns ability to make the repayments under the 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that AvantCredit had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss N undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, 
without failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial 
situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss N. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan 
application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications. I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which 
a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Miss N had a low income, and the loans required a considerable commitment from her. 
So AvantCredit should have carried out a thorough assessment of Miss Ns financial 
circumstances at the time of the application.
First of all I am sympathetic to the situation Miss N found herself in. It must have caused a
great deal of anxiety and, as she says, hugely affected her mental health. That said she has
advised us that she didnt make AvantCredit aware of her problems, for wholly
understandable reasons. But in deciding whether AvantCredit made fair lending decisions I
have to consider the information it had in front of it about Miss Ns circumstances. 
loan 1
For this loan AvantCredit carried out a credit report and verified Miss Ns income and bank 
account independently. It obtained a bank statement though Ive only seen a small 
snapshot of that statement which shows a few payments for credit cards and loans. I think 
it carried out proportionate checks, indeed its difficult to say what other checks it should 
have done. Im aware that Miss N hasnt been able to obtain bank statements from this 
period.
The information AvantCredit had showed that Miss N had four credit cards, although only 
two had substantial balances on them, two loans, a hire purchase and a mail order 
account. She was paying about £405 in regular monthly payments and estimated 
minimum payments towards the credit cards of £158. This was about 29% of her income. 
It said that paying off the loans would reduce her outgoings by about £85 a month, 
bringing that down to about 24% of her income. This takes into account the new loan 
payment. As far as I can see, Miss N did pay off those loans.
Miss N had estimated her regular household outgoings and rent to be around £690 a 
month, which, after paying off the loans would have left her with a disposable income of 
about £822 a month. So I think, from the information obtained by AvantCredit, this loan 
would have been affordable to her.
I appreciate that Miss N had had payday loans, but there were no active loans on her 
record apart from those Ive referred to. Im also aware that credit reports may not show the 
full picture and that there may been entries on her bank statements which may have shown 
a different picture of her finances. However as those statements arent available its not 
possible to say whether further information would have meant the loan was unaffordable. 
Im also aware that, as happened in respect of loan 2 she may have underestimated her 
regular outgoings. But even if she had I think there was sufficient disposable income here.
As Ive said I think the checks carried out were proportionate. I dont think those checks 
would have alerted AvantCredit to carry out any further investigation. So I think it made a 
fair lending decision in respect of this loan. Miss N repaid this loan early - theres no 
indication on the documents Ive seen that she had any trouble making the repayments.loan 2
Having paid off loan 1 Miss N again approached Avant Credit for another debt 
consolidation loan. Avant Credit carried out the same checks as before, although as far as I 
can see didnt obtain any bank statement, as it had for the first. It would have been clear 
that Miss N had increased her credit card debts and was paying out more for loans than 
she had been before taking out loan 1. So I think this should have alerted AvantCredit to 
carry out a more thorough assessment of Miss Ns circumstances, especially, as Ive set 
out below, as the new proposed loan would increase her credit commitments.
I dont think this loan benefited Miss N, apart from consolidating three credit cards into one 
payment. But it increased her monthly credit commitments, purely on AvantCredits 
assessment, from around £558 to £594 a month  an increase from 27% of her income to 
29%.
On reviewing Miss Ns bank statements I can see that she did appear to be reliant on 
borrowing from family members. And that she had taken out a payday loan in the month 
before her application. And whilst she said her monthly outgoings were about £690, I think 
that underestimated that by about £200 a month just on ordinary outgoings. Taking into 
account that her disposable income would increase after the loan it was most likely that she 
would have had to keep on relying on borrowing. So whilst AvantCredit assessed that Miss 
N had a reasonable disposable income of over £780 left after paying the new loan,
realistically this figure was likely to be far less.
So I dont think AvantCredit made a fair lending decision. 
I wont make any further comment about loan 1, as both parties have accepted the position 
here.
With regard to loan 2, AvantCredit will be aware that we dont just look at the calculated 
figures, but also consider whether it acted fairly and whether there were other indicators of 
distress. From Miss Ns bank statements they simply show that she didnt have any 
income left over at the end of the month, the HP payment hasnt been counted twice. And 
she had borrowed money from family members and on a payday loan. If her credit card 
payments are calculated according to a minimum payment of 3% of the balances on each, 
her credit commitments, before the loan were roughly similar to those at the time of loan 
one, so in effect she hadnt managed to better her financial situation. Also she had been 
making larger payments towards her credit cards than 3% each month.
So I dont think it was fair to lend Miss N so as to increase her credit commitments against 
income to at least 29%, only enabling her to clear a couple of credit card debts.. Bearing in 
mind her circumstances which I think AvantCredit should have been alerted to when she 
returned to it for more debt consolidation, I think its checks should have been more 
thorough. In the circumstances I still maintain it didnt make a fair lending decision.
I havent been persuaded to change my provisional findings by the responses to my 
provisional decision, as set out above. Those findings are now final and form part of this 
final decision.
Putting things right
Miss N has had the capital payment in respect of loan 2, so its fair that she should 
repay this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think AvantCredit should refund all 
interest and charges as follows:Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2.
Treat any payments made by Miss N as payments towards the capital amount of 
£3,000.
If Miss N has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 
8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information about loan 2 from Miss Ns credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. It should give
Miss N a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman