DRN-2256376
The complaint
Mrs D, who is represented by a third party, has complained to us that Bank of Scotland plc 
(BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
September 1992 alongside a credit card.
What happened
Mrs D bought the policy at the same time as taking out a credit card. She applied for the 
card and the policy by post.
She says she didnt need the cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so her complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI but it seems 
she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. From 
what Ive seen about the card application process, I think Mrs D made a decision to buy 
the policy when she applied for the credit card by filling out and signing an application 
form which she then posted back to BoS. Ive seen that on the card application form Mrs 
D had written yes in a separate section to show she wanted to buy PPI. So I think, 
given that she filled out the application in her own time, Mrs D had the opportunity to 
think about whether she wanted PPI to go with her new card and decided she did.
As a postal application its likely that BoS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D, so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it still had to make sure that Mrs D got the 
information she needed to decide if she wanted to buy the PPI. Its likely that she would 
have received further policy details soon after shed decided to buy the cover so could 
have referred to these to find out more about her cover. 
       Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so it 
would have been useful to her if something went wrong.
I say this having taken into account that Mrs D told us she enjoyed good benefits 
from her employer if she couldnt work due to accident or sickness  of up to six 
months full pay followed by six months at half pay. But the PPI would pay out in 
addition those benefits, for up to 12 months if she couldnt work due to accident or 
sickness, or if she lost her job. It also meant she wouldnt have to rely on other sources 
of funding, such as savings, to help out. 
So, for the reasons given above, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mrs D off taking out the cover.
My final decision
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman