DRN-4379166
The complaint
Mr P complained that he forfeited his opportunity to have alternative accommodation costs 
paid for when his holiday home was being reinstated during a claim. He was incorrectly 
informed he wasnt covered for these costs under his home insurance policy with Aviva 
Insurance Limited (Aviva).
What happened
Aviva accepted a claim on Mr Ps holiday home and authorised significant reinstatement 
works to be carried out.
Mr P said he was informed by Avivas contractor that under his policy he wasnt covered for 
alternative accommodation (AA) whilst his holiday home was reinstated. Mr P said initially he 
was told he wasnt covered as the holiday home was habitable as it had bathing, cooking 
and sleeping facilities. When Mr P challenged this, the contractor said he wasnt covered as 
he wasnt living in the property. The contractor said Mr P was living in his main house.
Avivas contractor later admitted the second home wasnt habitable whilst some of the 
reinstatement was being carried out. Mr P was also informed towards the end of the 
reinstatement works that he was covered for AA under his policy.
Mr P felt hed lost the use of his holiday home for a year whilst works were being carried out. 
He said if hed had it confirmed by Aviva during this time he couldve claimed AA which he 
said he wouldve done.
When Mr P complained to Aviva, it said it would consider any AA costs that Mr P had 
incurred if he was able to share receipts to evidence the expenditure. Mr P thought this was 
unfair, as he hadnt been given the opportunity to benefit from AA whilst the works were 
ongoing.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said Mr P hadnt evidenced any 
losses and Aviva said they would only normally pay AA if someone was living at the 
property, or it was being rented out. Mr P disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I made a provisional decision on this on 19 September 2023. I said:
I have started by reviewing the policy. The policy includes cover for loss of rent and cost of 
alternative accommodation. The policy explains if your home cant be lived in because its 
been damaged by something which is insured under your policy, we will pay for the following 
until its fit to be lived in:
 reasonable additional alternative accommodation costs for you (including your pets) if you 
live in the home;
 any ground rent you still need to pay;
 if you have a lodger or tenant well pay:
- any rental income you lose from them; or
- reasonable additional alternative accommodation costs for them (and their pets), if 
they dont have other insurance to cover it.
The policy schedule has a specific clause applicable to the cover. It said if the home is left 
unoccupied, it needs to be inspected at least every 14 days by a responsible person.
Therefore, my view is that Mr P was entitled to receive AA for the period his home was 
uninhabitable. Aviva or its contractors changed its advice to Mr P on what was covered more 
than once, which led to Mr P not been able to utilise the benefit hed paid for. I think Aviva 
has since confirmed Mr P did have cover. I also think that as its paid out on the damage 
claim itself, it has assured itself Mr P was covered under the general terms of the policy and 
hadnt thought the property was unoccupied.
Mr P has consistently said he frequently visited his second home. Aviva hasnt provided any 
evidence to show he wasnt living there in circumstances that sits outside the policy cover. 
So, I think Aviva and its contractors have let Mr P down in this claim. Therefore, I intend to 
uphold this complaint.
When thinking about how Aviva needs put this right, I need to consider the actual financial 
loss suffered. As Mr P wasnt aware he could claim AA he didnt arrange alternate 
accommodation at his own expense. He didnt have confidence his costs would be 
reimbursed by Aviva. Hed received inaccurate advice.
Therefore, no financial loss has occurred. Mr P continued living in his main home during this 
period. However, this doesnt mean Mr P hasnt suffered during this time. Hes told our 
service how he normally uses his holiday home frequently. Hes not had the use of this 
facility whilst it was uninhabitable. Aviva didnt offer him AA at the appropriate time, so Mr P 
missed the opportunity for this. So, whilst I dont think Mr P has suffered financial loss, I do 
think Aviva should pay Mr P compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused.
I think not having access to the property will have impacted Mr Ps wellbeing. A holiday 
home wouldve provided Mr P a release and relaxation away from his day-to-day activities. 
He was not getting the benefit of one of his assets. I think the conflicting advice Mr P 
received wouldve been frustrating  especially as it meant he didnt have the downtime hes 
used to. Mr P wasnt given this opportunity.
So, whilst I dont think a financial loss has occurred, I think the distress and inconvenience 
has been significant. I dont think Aviva has fairly considered this by just saying no financial 
loss has occurred. I dont think it has applied the terms and conditions of the policy fairly. 
Therefore, I intend to award £1,500 in compensation  its a large award, but I think it 
reasonably reflects the distress the lost opportunity of downtime has caused Mr P.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr P didnt accept my provisional decision. He said Aviva had several opportunities to 
provide him AA which he estimated wouldve cost around £750 per week. He said Aviva 
have benefitted by £39,000 over the period by not providing him with his policy entitlement.
Mr P provided the same evidence again that Aviva had argued for some time that his holiday 
home wasnt his main home and so it said he wasnt entitled to AA and then Aviva said his 
holiday home was habitable before changing its mind, saying he couldve had AA under the 
policy. He didnt think Aviva had informed him of his escalation rights to our service.Aviva didnt accept my provisional decision. It thought the compensation award was high and 
outside of our services award framework. It suggested an award of up to £750 was more 
appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate what Mr P said that he thinks Aviva has saved a significant sum by not paying 
for AA during the period of the claim. However, I think its unreasonable to suggest Aviva 
wouldve needed to pay for AA every week the holiday home was uninhabitable. I dont think 
Mr P has provided any evidence to suggest he was expecting to be living in his holiday 
home most of the time during this period.
I think its more likely as the name suggests, that the holiday home wouldve been used for 
breaks away. It has been explained to Mr P that our service can only pay for financial losses 
incurred. Mr P hasnt provided any evidence that he incurred other costs for renting out 
accommodation during this period. I appreciate his point that he didnt rent out other 
accommodation as he wasnt aware he could, but the fact remains he hasnt suffered a 
financial loss. Or at least this hasnt been evidenced to our service. I cant make an award 
where financial loss hasnt been incurred.
I appreciate that Mr P has lost the opportunity to enjoy his holiday home, which is why I think 
he has suffered distress and inconvenience because of this, as I explained in my provisional 
decision. Aviva has argued that the level of compensation Ive awarded is too high. I 
disagree, so I wont be changing my original decision. I think the disruption has gone on for a 
long time and wouldve caused substantial distress. Im persuaded that Mr P wouldve 
enjoyed his holiday home multiple times during this period if he couldve done  not having 
access to this wouldve had a serious impact on his leisure and relaxation time.
I can see Avivas final response letter did inform Mr P of his escalation rights to our service. 
As this is what it is required to do, I wont consider this point any further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr 
P:
£1,500 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman