DRN-4083435
The complaint
Miss M has complained that, after she paid off her mortgage arrears, Santander UK Plc told 
her that her account would need to be free of arrears for 12 months before a switch of 
repayment method to interest-only could be applied for.
To put things right, Miss M wants Santander to convert the mortgage to interest-only.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Miss M being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Miss M has a mortgage with Santander that is on a part interest-only and part capital 
repayment basis. In June 2022 the account was in arrears of around £10,000 and Santander 
was considering taking legal action. During discussions with Santander Miss M discussed 
switching the entire mortgage to interest-only. She was told that the arrears would need to 
be cleared before Santander could consider an application, but that no guarantee could be 
given that the application would be approved. 
Miss M borrowed £10,000 from a family member and cleared the arrears. She was then told 
by Santander that, before an application to switch the mortgage to interest-only could be 
considered, the account would need to be free of arrears for a minimum of 12 months. After 
Miss M complained, Santander acknowledged that it hadnt told Miss M this before shed 
paid off the arrears. Santander paid Miss M £50 compensation by way of an apology.
Miss M wasnt satisfied with this and brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Miss M said that her mortgage is unaffordable on a part-repayment basis, in 
addition to which she now has to repay her relative £100 per month towards the £10,000 she 
borrowed to clear the arrears.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think Santander needed to do 
anything further. Whilst she noted the bank had acknowledged its error, she explained that 
there was no guarantee an application for a switch to interest-only would be agreed.
Miss M asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Miss M has explained that she will 
soon be able to apply for a transfer of the mortgage to interest-only. However, if Santander 
doesnt agree to this, she will have no alternative but to sell her home, but will be in arrears 
again from June 2023 until the property is sold. This is because the mortgage is currently 
affordable and shes being helped out by her parents, but they are about to retire and cant 
continue to subsidise her mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to clarify that the complaint I am considering is the one Miss M raised 
with us on 5 September 2022  which is that she was not told she would need to be clear of 
arrears for 12 months before she could apply for a switch to interest-only. Ive read Miss Ms 
letter to Santander that she sent to us on 17 April 2023, which sets out her current 
circumstances and why she wants Santander to switch her mortgage to interest-only. That is 
something Miss M will need to raise with Santander when she makes her application, which I 
understand can be made from next month onwards.
In relation to this current complaint, I have sympathy with the position in which Miss M found 
herself. Santander should have told Miss M that shed need to have a year free of arrears 
before she could apply for a switch from repayment to interest-only; by not doing so. 
Santander gave Miss M false hope. But, even if that error hadnt been made, Im not 
persuaded Miss Ms situation has been made worse.
I say this because if Miss M hadnt borrowed the money to pay off the arrears, I think it is 
likely, given the amount of the arrears and the information Miss M has told us about her 
finances, that the bank would have begun possession proceedings. So taking that into 
consideration, although Santander did make a mistake, I think that, even if the bank had told 
Miss M that shed need to be clear of arrears for a year, shed have taken the same action in 
any event, in order to keep her home.
Overall, Im not persuaded Miss M would have done anything different, even if Santander 
hadnt made this error. In the circumstances, I think the apology and £50 compensation is 
fair in all the circumstances. Im therefore not asking Santander to do anything further.
Other matters
Its clear from what Miss M has told us that she is in a very difficult financial position. I would 
remind Santander of its regulatory obligation to help borrowers who are in financial difficulty.
I cant tell Santander what policies it should have in place, or what criteria it should apply 
when considering interest-only applications. When Miss M took out the mortgage in 2011 her 
financial advisers told Santander that she had an investment linked policy in place to repay 
the interest-only part of the mortgage. Santander has regularly reminded Miss M of the need 
to ensure that this will be sufficient to pay off the current interest-only part of the mortgage 
(about £59,000) before the end of the term in 2032. 
If Miss M wants to apply for a switch of the whole mortgage to interest-only, shell need to 
ensure she has a suitable repayment strategy in place. Miss M has explained she has a 
potential inheritance, but that is not considered to be a suitable repayment vehicle. 
If Miss M doesnt have any investment vehicle that meets Santanders criteria and intends 
instead to sell the property at the end of the mortgage term, she would need to meet 
Santanders criteria for this, including a minimum amount of equity in the property (which I 
believe is currently £250,000, but is, of course, subject to change).
I would suggest Miss M sets up an appointment to discuss her mortgage with Santander so 
that, once the 12-month period expires in June 2023, she will be in a position to apply for a 
switch to interest-only. There is no guarantee Santander will agree to switch the mortgage to interest-only  and our service doesnt have any power to tell Santander that it must do this if 
it transpires that Miss M doesnt meet the banks lending criteria. But given what Miss M has 
told us, I would expect Santander to look at all available options to see what can be done to 
help Miss M.
My final decision
I know this isnt the outcome Miss M wanted, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman