DRN-3675870
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money he lost after he fell victim to a 
scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and has been well detailed in 
our investigators view, so I wont repeat it in detail. But in summary and based on the 
submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
In April 2020 Mr B was interested in investing. Hes told us that work colleagues 
recommended he start trading and helped him set up an account with a crypto currency 
exchange company. Mr B has said his boss suggested to him that he get some investment 
advice, and so he did some research online and came across an investment company.
Mr B has said he checked the investment company on a review platform, and didnt see 
anything that concerned him. So he went ahead to deal with the investment company, who 
had told him they would invest on his behalf, to make better returns. But unknown to him at 
the time, he was dealing with fraudsters.
The fraudsters gained remote access to Mr Bs computer and helped him to set up a trading 
platform, which Mr B was able to access and see how his investments were performing. The 
fraudsters instructed Mr B that he should pay money into the cryptocurrency account, which 
he had set up in his own name with his work colleagues, and from there he should convert it 
into cryptocurrency. With the remote access the fraudsters had, they were able to move the 
cryptocurrency onto the trading platform, which the fraudsters controlled.
The initial payment Mr B made, for £250, appeared to double in value within a day. Mr B has 
said the fraudster spoke about his own investments and came across as knowing what they 
were talking about. Mr B was shown examples of rising investments across a number of 
commodities, which persuaded him further. Hes said he was told the more he invested, the 
more profit he could make. Persuaded by what he was told, Mr B increased his investments 
and made a card payment for £5,000 to purchase a bitcoin, from what appears to be a 
different crypto exchange. A week after this, the trading platform indicated Mr B had made a 
profit of £25,000 within the week.
Still believing everything to be genuine, Mr B continued to invest further amounts, which 
included taking out a loan to fund the investments. He has said the fraudster would call him 
once or twice a week, with trades being set up through a remote desktop application. Mr B 
says at one point, he was told that a further investment of £25,000, would lead to him being 
entitled to receive a bonus, from the investment company, of £30,000. The investments 
continued until Mr Bs trading platform indicated that he had a balance of nearly half a million 
pounds.
Towards the end of August 2020, the fraudsters told Mr B that the value of his investments 
were falling. Hes said he was told he needed to make a payment of £10,000 as a fee to 
hedge his investments. Mr B went ahead and made the payments as requested. But 
following this, the fraudsters didnt contact him and it started to become clear to him that he 
had been scammed. In total Mr B suffered an overall loss of £199,079.64 as a result of the 
scam. 
Mr B raised the matter with HSBC and it issued its final response on 8 October 2020, not 
upholding his complaint. In summary it said while it acknowledged Mr Bs frustration, it had 
processed the payments in line with Mr Bs request. It didnt consider there had been an 
error made in processing the payments and thought this was a civil matter between Mr B 
and the cryptocurrency exchange company he had set up an account with. It did try and 
recover funds from the beneficiary accounts (the accounts to which the money was sent), 
but only £0.86 was recovered, which was returned to Mr B.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr B then brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint in part. In summary, this was 
because she thought the payment Mr B made for £5,000, on 16 July 2020, wasnt 
comparable to his typical account activity and was out of character. Because of this our 
investigator thought HSBC should have been concerned and ought to have questioned Mr B 
before processing the payment. She thought that had HSBC questioned Mr B further, it 
would have become apparent that he was falling victim to a scam and it would have 
prevented him from making the payment. So she thought HSBC should be held liable for the 
loss.
Our investigator went on to consider whether Mr B had acted reasonably in the 
circumstances and whether he too should carry some responsibility for his loss. She thought 
he should. In summary, she said this because she thought there was enough going on that 
Mr B should have acted more cautiously before proceeding with the investment.
Overall, our investigator thought liability should be equally shared across both parties, from 
the point Mr B made a card payment for £5,000 on 16 July 2020 (our investigator provided a 
detailed breakdown of the relevant transactions in her view). Alongside refunding 50% of   
Mr Bs loss from this point (less any money already credited to Mr Bs account), our 
investigators view was that HSBC should also pay interest on the amount it was being 
asked to refund (at the same rate Mr B was receiving on his HSBC account). Our 
investigator also thought HSBC should pay Mr B £200 for the distress and inconvenience  
hed been caused, by how HSBC had dealt with matters when he reported the scam.
Our investigator issued her view of the complaint on 9 August 2022, giving both parties the 
opportunity to respond by 23 August 2022. Mr B responded and accepted the view. HSBC 
responded on 17 August 2022 and asked for an extension until 30 August 2022, which our 
investigator granted, but HSBC did not respond.
She contacted HSBC again on 31 August 2022, letting it know that the complaint would be 
passed to an ombudsman for consideration. That email had a deadline of 14 September 
2022. On 2 September 2022, HSBC requested a further extension until 19 September 2022. 
Our investigator granted this, but again no response was received. On 21 September 2022, 
HSBC asked for a further extension of seven days. Our investigator agreed, and asked 
HSBC to respond by 28 September 2022. But HSBC did not respond by this date.
Because HSBC hasnt responded to the Investigators view or any follow up 
correspondence, the complaint has been passed to me to consider and issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines and 
that we may: 
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested;
 
And that: 
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make. 
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from HSBC, it is fair and 
reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we already have and to take account of 
its failure to reply to the Investigators opinion. 
I think that, taking into account its obligations to protect customers from financial harm from 
fraud as well as whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, HSBC 
ought to have intervened, at the point Mr B was making a card payment for £5,000 on        
16 July 2020. 
Given this payment was out of character and not in line with Mr Bs typical account activity, I 
think HSBC ought to have had concerns about it. Im satisfied that had HSBC intervened it 
would have been able to identify that Mr B was at risk of financial harm from fraud. I say this 
as the circumstances had several hallmarks of this type of scam, including the fact that the 
fraudsters had gained remote access to his computer, he was being offered returns that 
were too good to be true and he was being asked to pay fees in order to release his funds. 
So, the loss would have been prevented. 
For broadly the same reasons as our investigator gave in her view, I also consider that Mr B 
should share liability for this loss. Im persuaded that, on balance, there was enough going 
on that ought to have reasonably led him to adopt a more cautious approach to the 
payments he was making. I say that as Mr B was an inexperienced investor and was 
investing substantial sums of money, on the basis of promised returns that seemed too good 
to be true. 
Finally, I think that HSBC should pay additional compensation of £200 to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience it caused Mr B, with the difficulty he had in reporting the scam. I can 
understand how these difficulties would have compounded, what was already a worrying 
time for Mr B.
Putting things right
HSBC should now;
- Refund Mr B 50% of his loss, from and including the card payment he made on        
16 July 2022, less any credits he received from this point (being £99.067.07 to 
refund).- Pay interest on this amount, at the same rate of his HSBC account (from which the 
majority of the payments were made).  This should be paid from the date of 
transactions to the date of settlement.
- Pay Mr B £200 for the distress and inconvenience cause. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc in part.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman