DRN-4035957
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs L complain about how One Call Insurance Services Limited rated their policy.
What happened
Mr K and Mrs L took out a policy with One Call, a broker. When they took the policy out, they 
were asked about any previous claims. They told One Call they had one previous claim in 
August 2017.
When One Call checked, it found a claim in November 2020, but no record of a claim in 
2017. It informed Mr K and Mrs L of this. They said they must have made a mistake and the 
claim they were referring to must be the one One Call found in 2020. They maintained theyd 
only had one claim.
One Call said Mr K and Mrs L would then need to provide proof that the 2017 claim didnt 
happen. They provided a letter from the council, but One Call havent accepted it.
One Call has said the claim remains on its internal records and nowhere else. Its said its 
not impacted the price of the policy because it was over five years prior to the policy being 
taken out.
But Mr K and Mrs K arent happy and dont think its fair a claim is recorded anywhere.
Our investigator thought One Call should remove the claim and pay Mr K and Mrs L £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by trying to get One Call to remove 
it.
One Call didnt agree. So, the case has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
When Mr K and Mrs L were asked about their claims history, they said they had one 
claim. They thought this claim was in 2017.
When One Call checked, it saw one claim - but this claim was in 2020, not 2017.
I appreciate One Call wanting evidence to show the 2017 claim didnt happen. But its 
very hard, and often impossible to prove a negative.
The only evidence the 2017 claim happened was Mr K and Mrs Ls original 
testimony. A testimony theyve now said was a mistake.
I appreciate its not possible to tell for sure which statement is correct, Mr K and 
Mrs Ls first one  saying there was a claim in 2017, or their second - saying the date 
was wrong. But when viewed in light of the other evidence that One Call found  
showing only one claim, I think its more likely the first statement was a mistake.
Therefore, One Call should remove any record of the 2017 claim from its databases.
The 2017 claim hasnt impacted Mr K and Mrs Ls premium, so theres nothing One 
Call need do in that regard.
But, I agree that chasing for the removal of a claim would be both distressing and 
inconvenient. So One Call need to pay Mr K and Mrs L £100 compensation for this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
One Call Insurance Services Limited to:
Pay Mr K and Mrs L £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman