DRN-4522709
The complaint
Mr M complains Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim hes made on his 
building insurance policy following an escape of water at a property he owns.
What happened
Aviva is the underwriter of this policy, i.e. its the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the agents for which Aviva has accepted responsibility. Any reference to Aviva 
includes the actions of its agents. 
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive included a summary 
here.
Mr M owns a property insured under a buildings insurance policy underwritten by 
Aviva. The house was unoccupied and at some point in mid December 2022 an inlet 
pipe burst following a period of sub-zero temperatures. The subsequent escape of 
water caused damage to both the building and its contents.
Mr M instructed a plumber to mend the burst pipe and reported the damage to Aviva 
to make a claim on his policy, providing it with a copy of his plumbers report. Aviva 
appointed agents to validate the claim.
Through December 2022 and into January 2023, Mr M says he chased Aviva for 
updates. When these werent forthcoming he started to strip out carpets and 
instructed an electrician to restore electrical supply so he could start drying out the 
property. Mr M says Aviva accepted the claim in mid-January so he cancelled the 
electricians planned work. 
Through January 2023 and February 2023, a number of Avivas agents visited the 
property to assess the damage and Mr M says he asked for copies of the reports a 
number of times. Aviva asked him for evidence of gas bills covering the claim period 
and he supplied these.
In March 2023, Aviva declined the claim because it said Mr M hadnt complied with 
the endorsement requiring a temperature of 15 degrees centigrade to be maintained 
when the property was unoccupied. It said the utility bills he had provided showed 
insufficient gas consumption to have maintained the required temperature. And it 
stated this inaction on his part was material to the loss in question.
By this time Mr M says the damage to the property and contents was much worse as 
no restorative action had been undertaken because Aviva had told him not to 
proceed with it and hadnt done anything itself. Mr M complained to Aviva about the 
claim decline and the delays.
Aviva maintained its position and said the claim had been declined correctly. But it 
accepted its agents had caused delays and poor communication and offered £100 
compensation for this. Mr M raised a complaint with this Service.
Our Investigator considered the evidence and didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
she thought that Aviva had acted reasonably in saying Mr M hadnt met the 
endorsement requirements. And she didnt think there was enough evidence to show 
the delays were the cause of the extent of the damage rather than the original leak. 
She concluded the £100 was fair compensation. Mr M asked an Ombudsman to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge incidences involving extensive damage by an escape of water like this are 
stressful for policyholders to deal with. At times my decision may sound dispassionate and I 
mean no offence by this, it just reflects the nature of my role. 
When making a claim on an insurance policy the onus is on the policyholder to show the 
claim is covered under the policy terms. Ill be keeping this principle in mind while 
considering this complaint together with what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
Aviva declined the claim as it said Mr M had failed to meet the unoccupancy endorsements. 
So this is the starting point for my decision.
Did Mr M comply with the endorsements?
When Mr M let Aviva know the property was unoccupied, it applied certain 
endorsements to the policy amending the cover and setting out conditions which Mr 
M needed to comply with. In my experience, this is a common step taken by many 
insurers across the industry in similar circumstances and isnt, on its face, unfair. 
Aviva says Mr M has failed to comply with the unoccupancy endorsement setting the 
minimum temperature that must be maintained, which says:
If your home becomes unoccupied for more than 7 days you must
Operate the heating system at a minimum constant temperature of 15 
degrees centigrade; or the gas and water must be turned off at the mains and 
the water system drained
Ive seen nothing to show me the gas and water were turned off at the mains nor that 
the water system was drained so Ive gone on to consider if the evidence shows, on 
balance, whether Mr M maintained the minimum required temperature at the 
property.
Mr M has provided Aviva with utility bills showing gas consumption of just £14 in the 
two month period from 7 November 2022 to 7 January 2023. In Mr Ms testimony, he 
describes the extreme cold weather with temperatures falling to minus eight 
degrees centigrade around the time of the escape of water. 
Ive kept in mind the very high cost of gas during this period in 2022 and Im satisfied 
that, on balance, the gas consumed wouldnt have been enough to maintain the 
temperature at the required level particularly given the extreme conditions Mr M 
describes. I acknowledge Mr M says his plumber said having the heating on would not have 
prevented the incident occurring but Ive seen no detailed reasoning for this view. 
And in one of the emails to Mr M the plumber explains it was very difficult to 
determine what caused the failure leading to the escape of water, so it seems to me 
its not possible to say with any certainty that the incident would still have occurred 
even if Mr M had maintained the required temperature.
Mr M says the endorsement he has failed to adhere to is not relevant to the damage 
and so Aviva shouldnt rely on it. But I dont agree. The minimum temperature 
endorsement is added to the policy when a house is unoccupied due to the increased 
risk of burst pipes over the winter. Given that the pipes burst during a period of cold 
weather and this seemingly is the accepted cause of the damage, Im satisfied the 
endorsement is relevant and material to the loss in question.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that it was fair for Aviva to say Mr M 
hadnt met the policy endorsement and accordingly decline the claim. 
Was Aviva responsible for the extra work required?
Having concluded Aviva doesnt need to settle the claim for the damage caused as a 
result of the escape of water as it declined the claim fairly, Ive gone on to consider 
the impact of any delays.
Mr M says he wanted to get electricity reinstated in the property and run de-
humidifiers to start the drying out process in January 2023. But a phone call he had 
with Aviva led him to believe his claim had been accepted and that Aviva would be 
appointing agents to undertake this work, so he didnt go ahead with it himself. 
Aviva undertook an assessment of the damage in late January 2023 and given the 
time of year and extreme weather conditions, this doesnt seem an unreasonable 
timeframe to me. 
Aviva declined the claim in March 2023 for the reasons Ive explained above and it 
accepts it took too long to do this. Mr M says the damage was much worse by this 
point and Aviva was responsible for this as no drying out work had been completed 
while it assessed his claim. So, I have to consider whether I can safely say Avivas 
actions were responsible for the additional work required over and above what would 
have been caused by the original escape of water.
Mr Ms builder provided comments in May 2023 saying some of the internal walls 
were completely soaked and falling to pieces and additional work had been required. 
He said this was due to the length of time with no dehumidifier although he offered no 
explanation about why this work was required solely as a result of the delays. 
I acknowledge that the situation in the property is likely to have got worse over time. 
But it doesnt automatically follow that Aviva is responsible for the extra works. I have 
to keep in mind, the escape of water was extensive, having flowed through all the 
rooms for multiple days in an unoccupied property with little or no heating at a time of 
extremely low temperatures. 
Mr M identified the presence of mould from early January 2023 and when Aviva 
undertook the first assessment in late January 2023, mould was present through the 
property. So, while the mould situation may have got worse over time, Im satisfied it 
was already an issue from much earlier not just as a result of Avivas delays. The property contents were considered likely beyond restoration in January 2023. 
Again, while things may have deteriorated over time, as the contents were seemingly 
already unrestorable at the point of Avivas first assessment Im not persuaded the 
delays made a difference.
Ive thought about this very carefully, and Im not persuaded, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, that I can safely attribute the additional work Mr Ms builder says was 
required solely to Avivas delays rather than to the impact of the original escape of 
water.  
Poor communication and delays
Aviva accepted there was some poor communication throughout the claim and it 
should have provided the decline outcome sooner than it did. I agree with this and it 
should have done better here. I know Mr M will be disappointed but I have decided 
the £100 Aviva has offered Mr M by way of an apology is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. 
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mr M £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman