DRN-3728125
The complaint
Mr Q complains Metro Bank PLC didnt make reasonable adjustments so he could continue 
using his online banking. He also complains about its response to his complaint.
What happened
Mr Q had a current account with Metro Bank which he used to make occasional payments.
In July 2020 Mr Q called Metro Bank to say that he was having difficulties using its online 
banking. Mr Q said that he was dyslexic and had difficulty when asked to give numbers from 
his password. Mr Q says Metro Bank told him that he could write down his password if that 
helped, which he said it would. Mr Q says he asked Metro Bank to confirm this in writing as 
he thought this would normally be a breach of his accounts terms and conditions. Mr Q says 
Metro Bank said it couldnt do so. Mr Q complained about Metro Banks refusal to do so.
Metro Bank investigated Mr Qs complaint and said that it couldnt allow him to write down 
his password as a reasonable adjustment. Mr Q complained about Metro Banks response 
saying that it implied hed come up with this suggestion rather than being a suggestion Metro 
Bank had made. Metro Bank said that Mr Q could visit a branch if he needed to make 
payments etc or call. Mr Q asked Metro Bank what other alternatives it could offer so he 
could continue to access his online banking. He then complained to us saying Metro Bank 
didnt offer any other alternatives. In the meantime, Metro Bank offered Mr Q £75 in 
compensation having agreed that it missed an opportunity to offer alternatives.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Qs complaint and recommended £75 in 
compensation. Mr Q didnt think this was fair. I issued a provisional decision saying that I 
thought £300 in compensation was fair and invited both parties to comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Qs complaint is in two parts. Hes unhappy with Metro Banks response to his complaint 
 saying that it hasnt been truthful about what happened. And hes unhappy Metro Bank 
didnt offer him alternatives as a reasonable adjustment.
Metro Banks response to Mr Qs complaint
Mr Q phoned Metro Bank in July 2020 to say that he was having problems using his online 
banking because of his dyslexia. Mr Q has told us that it wasnt easy for him to tell Metro 
Bank that hes dyslexic and I accept that. The member of staff who Mr Q initially spoke to 
checked what Mr Q was having difficulty with and confirmed that he was having difficulty 
when asked to give numbers from his password. At that stage, the member of staff said that 
he could write his password down and asked if this would help. Mr Q said it would. He then 
asked Metro Bank if it could confirm in writing that he was allowed to do this as he 
understood it would normally be a breach of his accounts terms and conditions. Metro Bank 
looked into this further and said that it couldnt confirm in writing that Mr Q was allowed to 
write his password down  and implied that this was an adjustment hed asked for. I can 
understand why Mr Q was angered by this  not only did Metro Bank imply that this 
suggestion was one hed made (rather than one a member of its staff had made) but it 
wasnt willing to confirm something in writing that it was willing to say verbally (putting Mr Q 
in a potentially vulnerable position). I dont think this was helpful of Metro Bank.
What alternatives, if any, did Metro Bank offer?
Mr Q asked Metro Bank  when it said it wouldnt confirm what it had said in writing  what 
alternatives it offered by way of a reasonable adjustment. Im satisfied that there were 
alternatives that Metro Bank could have offered Mr Q that would have allowed him to 
continue using his online banking without the problems he was experiencing. Metro Bank 
appears to have accepted this too, as its told us that it missed an opportunity here. I can see 
Mr Q was unhappy and angry about failure to offer alternatives, and I can understand why. I 
can also understand why he decided  in light of the problems hed had and the response 
from Metro Bank  to close his account. I dont think closing the account caused him 
significant inconvenience  he had a current account but not one that he used regularly or 
heavily  but I do think it shows how unhappy and angry he was.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I agreed with Mr Q that £75 doesnt reflect the impact this 
had on him overall. I also said that I was minded to award £300 in compensation as I felt that 
was more appropriate. I invited both parties to comment.
Metro Bank agreed to my provisional decision. Mr Q didnt reply.
Having considered everything again, I remain of the view that £300 is a more appropriate 
award. So thats the award Im going to make.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Metro Bank PLC to pay Mr Q £300 in compensation in full 
and final settlement of his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman