DRN-3607065
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited settled a 
claim he made under his buildings insurance policy with it.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr M made a claim to AAUICL for an escape of water in a bathroom of 
his home. AAUICL sent a Surveyor to report as to the cause of damage. The Surveyor 
reported that the damage was caused by wear and tear and said the leak was due to a 
sealant failure around the shower tray. 
AAUICL declined Mr Ms claim. Unhappy with the decision, Mr M instructed a plumber to 
establish the cause of damage. He provided a report from the plumber with photos showing 
a cause of damage was due to a split waste pipe near the bottom of the shower. 
In November 2021 AAUICL accepted the claim  but said it believed the damage could have 
also been caused in part by a lack of sealant. So as it said there was more than one cause 
of damage, AAUICL didnt offer Mr M to have an approved contractor carry out the repairs. 
Instead, it offered Mr M a cash settlement. The cash settlement was based on what it would 
have cost AAUICL to carry out the repairs and was limited to works set out under the 
Surveyors schedule. This came to £1,011.76 including VAT, so £843.13 excluding VAT.
The settlement AAUICL paid Mr M was £343.13 after it deducted an excess of £500. 
Mr M complained to AAUICL but it said its decision was correct and in line with the policy 
terms. So Mr M asked us to look at his complaint. 
Our Investigator thought AAUICL had acted unfairly. He said there was no way AAUICL 
could identify what damage was caused by the split pipe and what was caused by a lack of 
sealant. As AAUICL accepted that there was a valid claim from the split pipe, the 
Investigator thought AAUICL should deal with the claim in full. 
He thought that it was therefore unfair for AAUICL not to have offered Mr M the option to 
have an approved contractor carry out the works. He explained this services approach when 
this happens: that generally if the only option offered to a customer was a cash settlement, 
this should be the equivalent to what it would cost a customer to complete the works - as the 
customer has no access to the approved contractor rates. And so by settling the claim this 
way, AAUICL hadnt put Mr M back in the position he would have been in immediately before 
the damage occurred. The Investigator said that this was the purpose of the insurance cover 
in place. 
The Investigator asked AAUICL if it had asked Mr M to provide quotes for the works before 
he had the works done. AAUICL said it didnt. 
The Investigator therefore recommended Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He thought 
AAUICL should reimburse Mr M for the costs he paid to put his bathroom back in the 
condition it was in before the damage occurred along with the costs of the plumbers report 
identifying the cause of the leak. And he thought AAUICL should pay interest on the 
reimbursed sums from the date Mr M paid to the date of reimbursement. The Investigator 
thought this was fair as AAUICL hadnt provided any information around what it would cover, 
so Mr M was left to deal with the repairs. He thought from the information and receipts 
provided by Mr M that he done all he could to mitigate the costs of repairs. 
For the distress and inconvenience caused by AAUICL, he recommended it pay Mr M £100 
compensation. 
Mr M accepted the Investigators view. AAUICL didnt agree it should pay the full costs Mr M 
paid to put things right in his bathroom. It made an offer to increase the cash settlement sum 
to £1,861.97. It isnt clear if this sum includes or excludes VAT. 
As AAUICL didnt agree with the Investigators view, the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AAUICLs policy says it will do the following in the event of a claim:
How we will settle your claim
At our option we will:
 repair or rebuild the damaged part using our suppliers; or
 make a cash payment if you wish to use your own supplier.
If we make a cash payment, we will only pay you what it would have cost us using 
our suppliers and therefore the amount you receive may be lower than the cost 
charged by your suppliers.
If a repair is not carried out, or if the loss or damage involves part of the building that 
is in a poor state of repair or redecoration, then we will decide to either:
a) pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing the damage, less a deduction for any wear 
and tear; or
b) pay the difference in the market value of the building immediately before and 
immediately after the damage. This amount will not exceed what we would have paid 
under point a).
Repairs completed by our approved repairers as a result of a claim covered by this 
insurance are guaranteed. The length of guarantee will vary depending on your 
authorised insurer, but will be a minimum of 12 months.
The report from Mr Ms plumber identified a cause of damage which AAUICL accepted as a 
valid claim under the policy. While there may have been a lack of sealant to the shower tray, 
it isnt possible for AAUICL to say that this therefore means some of the damage was 
caused by this. Its clear that Mr M made a valid claim. So although the policy says AAUICL 
can decide to offer a cash settlement, I think in line with our approach AAUICL should have 
offered Mr M the option to have an approved contractor carry out repairs. I note the 
Surveyors schedule of works which AAUICL relied on to settle the claim was based on the 
cause of damage being a failed sealant. 
Because AAUICL settled the claim by way of a cash settlement, Mr M had no option but to 
arrange and pay for repairs himself. Mr M  after being put to the costs of a plumbers report 
to correctly identify a case of damage  says he tried to keep the costs to a minimum and 
the settlement from AAUICL wasnt anywhere near enough to enable him to repair the 
damage. Mr M has provided receipts, photos, plumber invoices and bank statements to show what he 
paid to have his bathroom repaired. AAUICL has disputed some of the amounts. But I dont 
think it acted reasonably by not giving Mr M the option to have an approved contractor repair 
the bathroom. It wasnt Mr Ms decision to use his preferred supplier. AAUICL didnt ask Mr 
M to provide any estimates for the repairs. Mr M was left to arrange repairs himself even 
though he had a valid claim. So I think a fair outcome in this case is for AAUICL to meet the 
reasonable costs Mr M paid for repairs in full including labour. Im satisfied from the 
information Mr M has provided that he did all he could to mitigate the costs of repairs. 
AAUICL says the policy says it will not cover the costs of matching sets. The policy says:
Matching suites or sets
We treat each item of a matching set or suite of furniture, sanitary fittings or other 
fixtures or fittings as a single item.
We will only pay the cost of repairing or replacing the damaged item. We will not pay 
for repairing or replacing any undamaged item that is part of a matching set or suite 
where damage occurs to a specific item of the matching set or suite.
The plumbers invoice for works states that they removed the existing sink and toilet in order 
to repair the floor, then replaced them. Its not clear if they were replaced with new items. Mr 
M paid for the materials. I cannot see within the receipts provided by Mr M that he is claiming 
for the costs of a new sink and toilet to match a replacement shower. So I dont think this 
term applies in this case. In any event, in line with our approach, generally we think it 
reasonable for an insurer to meet half of the costs to replace non damaged parts of a suite if 
a customer chooses to have a matching set during repairs.
AAUICL reimbursed Mr M for the costs of the plumbers investigation report in March 2022. I 
understand Mr M paid for the report in November 2021. So I think its reasonable for AAUICL 
to pay interest on all of the amounts Mr M paid - for the investigation report and the costs to 
repair his bathroom - from the date he paid to the date of reimbursement. 
I think AAUICL caused Mr M unnecessary distress and inconvenience in the way it dealt with 
his claim. For this I think it should pay him £100 compensation. I think this sum  along with 
the full reimbursement of the repair costs with interest  is enough to put things right and 
resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Reimburse Mr M for the costs he paid for repairs to his bathroom in full based on 
the evidence hes provided. 
Pay interest on the reimbursed amounts including the investigation report of £195 
from the date Mr M paid to the date of reimbursement. 
Pay Mr M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Geraldine NewboldOmbudsman