DRN-1386983
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc told him his current account he held with it 
would be closed while he was in a repayment plan. 
What happened
Mr B had an arrangement plan in place with Bank of Scotland to reduce his arranged 
overdraft. The plan was set up on 20 March 2019 and due to end in September 2019. 
However, Bank of Scotland sent Mr M a letter on 10 May 2019 advising that its relationship 
with it had broken down due to the fact Mr M had raised ten complaints with it in six months.
Bank of Scotland gave 70 days notice for the account to be closed and this was due to 
expire on 25 July 2019. In that time Mr M had to either repay the outstanding balance or his 
balance would be transferred to Bank of Scotland recoveries team. 
Mr M has said he never received this letter, so he raised this with Bank of Scotland who 
agreed, it couldve communicated better with Mr M and offered £75 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused. It also offered £36 to cover Mr Ms call costs. But Bank of Scotland 
also offered a further £100.
Mr M remained unhappy, so he brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Ms complaint, but he didn't recommend that it be upheld. He said the terms and 
conditions of account state that Bank of Scotland reserve the right to close any banking 
facility, without reason, providing they allow 70 days notice. So, he was satisfied that Bank 
of Scotland had followed the correct process. And while it doesn't have to provide a reason 
as to why they wished to close the account it has said it is due to the relationship breaking 
down. Mr M didn't agree, so he asked for the case to be passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons. I will 
explain why. 
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with it. But before it closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account. Having reviewed the terms and conditions I am 
satisfied it says that Bank of Scotland can close an account if it gives a customer two months 
written notice.
Mr M has said he never received the letter advising him that the account was going to be 
closed. But in the banks final response letter dated 10 May 2019, it clearly outlines the banks 
intentions. And Bank of Scotland has also provided system notes which highlights that this 
letter was issued. So, whilst I dont dispute Mr Ms version of events, I cant hold Bank of 
Scotland responsible for the failure of the postal service. Having considered the timeframe Bank of Scotland provided, Mr M was given two months 
notice. So, with that in mind I cant say Bank of Scotland has acted unfairly.  I appreciate   Mr 
M feels it was unfair as a payment plan had been agreed but as I explained a bank can 
choose to close a customers account if it follows the correct process and I can see that in 
this case Bank of Scotland has.
Bank of Scotland has already paid Mr M £75 for the trouble and upset it has caused and £36 
to cover call costs. And it also offered a further £100 as it felt it couldve communicated 
better with Mr M. I am satisfied this is fair. I say this because, its reasonable to assume a 
degree of trouble and upset will always be caused when an account is closed, but I am 
satisfied the amount offered compensates Mr M for the further inconvenience he suffered.
So, with this in mind, I wont be asking Bank of Scotland do to anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman