DRN-1142334
The complaint
Mr L complains about Newday Limiteds (Newday) handling of a missing payment.
What happened
Mr L had a credit card with Newday. He paid £746.15 towards the balance on 1 July 2019. 
Mr L was then notified by text that he had missed a payment. The payment was found and 
credited on 24 July 2019.
Mr L says Newday didnt keep him updated, which caused him distress and he was put to 
the inconvenience of investigating what had happened.
Newday accept there was a delay crediting the payment, they say this was due to an invalid 
reference number being quoted when the payment was made. Mr L was told that the 
payment had been found in August. As the payment wasnt made late, Newday refunded the 
late payment fee of £12 and refunded additional interest of £9.11. In addition, they paid two 
goodwill payments of £10 and £11.55 and paid a further £110 in compensation. Mr Ls credit 
file hasn't been affected.
Our investigator considered the complaint about Newdays handling of the late payment. 
Overall, she thought the compensation paid by Newday was fair and reasonable.
Mr L doesnt agree with the view. He feels that Newdays offer is inadequate. He would like 
£300 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered.
The matter has now come to me for a final decision
What I've decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that Mr Ls payment was applied to his account late and he was incorrectly 
informed that a payment had been missed. Given these circumstances, I think it is fair and 
reasonable for Newday to put things right for Mr L.
Ive seen that Newday removed the late payment fee and refunded the additional interest Mr 
L was charged. And there was no adverse impact to his credit file. Im satisfied these steps 
put Mr Ls account back into the position as if the payment had been recorded at the right 
time.
I think its foreseeable that this situation caused Mr L distress and inconvenience. Ive taken 
into account that Mr L had been unwell. He had to make calls and went into a third party 
bank to investigate what had happened to the payment.
Ive seen a statement dated 11 August, which showed the payment had been found and 
credited to the account. Whilst, Mr L says he didnt receive the statement, theres nothing to show that Newday didnt send it. And Ive seen that Newday also wrote to Mr L in August to 
say the payment had been found and apologised that he'd had to contact them to complain.
I appreciate that Mr L would like more compensation but overall I think the compensation 
offered by Newday is fair and reasonable, so I wont be asking Newday to do anything more.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but I wont be upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman