DRN-3941164
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Portafina Investment Management Limited 
(Portafina) to transfer his defined-benefit (DB) pension scheme to a personal pension (PP) 
so that he could take the benefits as cash. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and he 
now has no retirement provisions.
Mr Ms complaint has been brought on his behalf by a professional representative. But for 
ease, Ill mainly refer to the complaint as being brought by Mr M.
What happened
Mr M spoke with Portafina in 2018 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. Mr M 
wanted to raise some capital to repay some debt and possibly buy a holiday home. Mr M 
was considering accessing the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of his DB pension all 
as cash. The CETV was £180,771.
Portafina completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and 
objectives. It recommended that he didnt transfer his pension and then take it all as cash. 
Instead it recommended that he transfer and only take £33,000 as tax-free cash. However, it 
said Mr M wanted to proceed regardless of its advice. So, it treated him as an insistent client 
and advised Mr M to transfer his DB pension into a personal pension (PP). Mr M then 
withdrew the full amount. He was able to take 25% tax free and paid tax on the remaining 
amount.
Mr M complained in 2020 to Portafina about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that 
he was pushed to transfer his DB pension by Portafina, even though it was treating him as 
an insistent client. And he said he wasnt made aware of the risks associated with 
transferring his pension.
Portafina didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said it had made Mr M aware of the risks of what 
he was planning to do and had made it clear that transferring and taking his entire pension 
as cash was against its advice. Portafina said it had treated Mr M as an insistent client and 
had not pushed him to transfer his DB pension.
Mr M referred his complaint to our Service. Our Investigator thought the complaint should be 
upheld. She said she had concerns about the insistent client process that Portafina had used 
and she wasnt satisfied Mr M had been aware of the implications of going against 
Portafinas advice and transferring his DB pension.
Portafina disagreed, saying it had made it clear to Mr M that transferring wasnt in his best 
interests and that he had understood this. It also provided a copy of a call it had had with 
Mr M where he reiterated that he was aware of what he was giving up and still wished to 
proceed with the transfer.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 January 2023. In this, I explained that I disagreed with 
our Investigator and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I said the following:
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Portfina's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
COBS 9: the provisions of which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability.
COBS 19: the provisions of which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, I find myself coming to a different 
conclusion to that reached by our Investigator. So, Ive provisionally decided to not uphold 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer away from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, 
Portafina should have only advised to transfer the benefits of his DB scheme if it could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests.
Portafina agreed that the action Mr M took  taking the entire CETV as cash  wasnt 
suitable for him. But it did advise Mr M to transfer his pension and take £33,000 as TFC. Its 
questionable whether that advice was suitable or not. However, given that Mr M decided to 
proceed against this advice anyway, Ive not considered further whether the actual advice 
given was suitable advice. What I need to decide, and what Im going to focus my decision 
on, is whether Mr M actually was in fact an insistent client. And, whether Portafina gave him 
sufficient information to make an informed decision about the action he wished to take.
Portafinas key argument is that it told Mr M that he shouldnt take the entire CETV as cash 
and he did it against its advice. And Portafina says despite it making this clear to Mr M, he 
wanted to go ahead regardless. It was for this reason that it treated him as an insistent 
client, and facilitated the transaction against its advice.
COBS 9.5A includes additional guidance on insistent clients. It sets out three key steps for 
advisers to take.1) Where a firm proceeds to execute a transaction for an insistent client which is not 
in accordance with the personal recommendation given by the firm, the firm should 
communicate to the insistent client, in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading, 
and having regard to the information needs of the insistent client so that the client 
is able to understand, the information set out in (2).
2) The information which the firm should communicate to the insistent client is:
a) that the firm has not recommended the transaction and that it will not be in 
accordance with the firms personal recommendation;
b) the reasons why the transaction will not be in accordance with the firms 
personal recommendation;
c) the risks of the transaction proposed by the insistent client; and
d) the reasons why the firm did not recommend that transaction to the client.
Portafina was also required to obtain acknowledgement from the insistent client as per 
COBS 9.5A.4
(1) The firm should obtain from the insistent client an acknowledgement that:
(i) the transaction is not in accordance with the firms personal recommendation; 
and
(ii)the transaction is being carried out at the request of the client.
(2) Where possible, the acknowledgment should be in the clients own words.
Portafina completed a fact find with Mr M in June 2018. It was recorded that Mr M wanted to 
pay off around £12,000 of debt and sort out new living arrangements as he was about to be 
evicted. He had rent arrears and utility arrears. He also wanted to help his sons with their 
wedding arrangements and possibly buy a holiday home. It was noted that Mr M intended to 
withdraw the entire CETV as cash. The fact find also recorded that Mr M had no savings, no 
disposable income and no other objectives. His credit score wasnt good and his debt wasnt 
manageable. This is why he said he was considering taking the benefits from his DB scheme 
as cash.
Having reviewed Mr Ms situation, Portafina wrote to Mr M in July 2018 explaining that it 
wasnt recommending Mr M take his entire pension fund as cash. Having reviewed this 
letter, I accept that it (and the sales process in general) was confusing. This letter said:
We have already recommended that you do not access [employers] Pension Fund early by 
taking more than your tax free cash entitlement and instead leave your pension funds where 
they are because of the benefits you will be giving up.
But this wasnt actually an option for Mr M. Had he taken TFC from his DB scheme, he 
wouldve also needed to have started drawing an income from it as well. So he wasnt able 
to take TFC from his DB scheme and leave the funds as they were. But Mr M wasnt, in my 
opinion, ever considering anything other than taking the entire pension fund as cash. So 
Portafina needed to explain to Mr M the risks and implications of his going against its advice 
and taking the action he wanted to.
Portafina did go into detail about why Mr M shouldnt do what he wanted to. It explained he 
would be giving up the valuable benefits associated with a DB scheme. But, this letter also 
gave him three prepopulated boxes to tick how he wished to proceed which made it easier 
for Mr M to go against Portafinas advice. And, given that these boxes were already 
completed, it meant that Mr M wasnt required to provide, in his own words, the acknowledgement that he was acting against Portafinas recommendations, as per COBS. 
Option three was Portafinas recommendation, which was to transfer to a personal pension 
and take just £33,000 as TFC. As Ive said, Ive not considered the suitability of this advice 
as Mr M didnt proceed with it.
However, this letter also had a number of warnings within it which I think shouldve made 
Mr M aware of the implications of taking the entire pension fund as cash. These warnings 
included the following:
If you take this money from your pension during the 2018/19 tax year while still earning an 
income the total tax you will pay is: £57,860.
In short, if you take £135,579 from your pension in the 2018/19 tax year you could be paying 
an additional £55,230 in tax.
Are you sure you want to pay £55,230 in extra tax in tax year 2018/19?
This tax bill can be reduced by spreading the payment over a longer term, or if you 
choose to take a reduced amount from your pension fund.
Please note that as your current salary and taxable lump sum/income you have 
selected from your pension exceeds the higher rate tax bracket, you will be treated as 
an additional rate taxpayer. This will have implications on the amount of tax you will 
pay this year and you should think carefully before withdrawing a large amount from 
your pension plan.
Following the letter in early July 2018, Mr M completed a form on 26 July 2018 to confirm he 
wished to proceed against Portafinas recommendation. In this he was asked to write in his 
own words why he wished to proceed against the advice. He wrote:
I need to have a fresh start and helps clear off small debt possible invest in a small holiday 
home.
Based on the warnings within the letter and the wording used by Mr M, Im satisfied Portafina 
did make it clear that Mr M was acting against its advice up to this stage. And it had in 
writing, albeit briefly, Mr Ms reasons for going against its advice.
Following this, Portafina issued its suitability letter on 14 August 2018. The covering letter 
opened with the following:
Thank you for all of the information you have provided regarding your pension. Having 
considered your current situation and what you would like to achieve, we are delighted to 
recommend:
Transferring your pension to an Aegon plan.
If you agree with this recommendation and instruct us to act on it:
You will release the entire proceeds of your pension; of which £49,000 will be tax free and 
the remaining £137,202 will be taxable.
I think this wouldve been a bit confusing to Mr M. Hed been told that Portafina wasnt 
recommending he take his entire pension as cash. But this letter, initially, suggested the 
opposite. The covering letter did set out on page five that Mr M was proceeding against 
Portafinas advice and the reasons why it was recommending Mr M not take his entire pension fund as cash. However, I can see this causing confusion as to exactly what 
Portafina was recommending.
The suitability letter then goes on to talk about the recommendation it was making. Whilst it 
starts by reminding Mr M that it wasnt recommending he transfer his entire pension, it then 
goes on to explain how he can access his funds. It included phrases such as the following:
Please be assured: as an FCA-regulated company we would not  and could not, make any 
recommendation to you that we did not believe represented the best option available for 
you.
Given that Portafina was now talking about recommendations again, and the wording that it 
used, I can see that this also mayve been confusing for Mr M whether Portafina was indeed 
recommending he transfer or not.
For the reasons set out above, Im not satisfied that its sales process was without fault.
However, that alone isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint. I need to decide whether, 
even if Portafina had made it sufficiently clear what its recommendation was (i.e. not to take 
the entire pension as cash), whether Mr M wouldve proceeded regardless. And, having 
thought about it, I think he would have.
Mr M had unsecured debt, rent arrears and utility arrears. And he has told Portafina he was 
likely to be without anywhere to live in the near future. It's clear that accessing these pension 
funds was initially driven by Mr M and for these reasons. In fact, Mr M had been in touch with 
the scheme administrator about transferring his pension before engaging Portafina. So, it's 
clear that accessing his pension and withdrawing it all as cash was an option he was very 
keen on.
Mr M had discussions with Portafina prior to, and after, the advice being given. Ive listened 
to the call recordings Portafina has been able to provide us. It's clear that at the time Mr M 
was in a difficult position. As Ive already explained, he was in rent arrears and would be 
living in a property provided by his employer temporarily. But he said he wouldnt be able to 
stay there in the long term  hed told Portafina that he was only able to stay there for a 
month and couldnt secure anywhere else to live without having a deposit for rent.
So, Mr M was at a point where he was likely to have nowhere to live soon and he said he 
needed funds for a rental deposit on a new property. He had no further funds he could 
access and told Portafina that borrowing further money wasn't an option due to his credit 
history. For this reason, I dont think that Portafinas recommendation that Mr M transfer his
pension and access £33,000 as tax-free cash, which wouldve allowed him to clear his 
pressing debts and other immediate objectives, was inherently unsuitable. I can see Mr M 
had a pressing need to raise some money and, given his circumstances, I dont think he had 
any other viable way of doing this. And its clear this was presented to Mr M as Portafinas 
recommendation, as well as some other options.
So, Portafina had made a recommendation which wouldve resolved Mr Ms short term need 
for cash and allowed the remainder of his CETV to be invested in a personal pension. This 
also wouldve meant Mr M wouldve avoided the significant tax he ended up paying. But
Mr M chose not to take this option.
I've also been provided with a copy of a call Mr M had with Portafina when arranging the 
transfer after the advice had been given. In this call, Mr M confirms it's very clear to him 
that the action he is taking is against Portafina's advice. He says he wants a fresh start and 
this will provide it to him. The words fresh start are also the words Mr M used in his application form when applying for the pension funds. Mr M confirms that he and his wife 
had thought long and hard about this decision. The advisor he speaks to discussed other 
options including taking just the TFC as detailed within the suitability letter. But Mr M 
declined these alternative options. Mr M further confirms he is aware that he is giving up a 
guaranteed income and that he will definitely go ahead with the transfer.
It's unclear how far Portafina explored Mr M taking his pension benefits at the time therefore 
taking an income and the TFC that he was entitled to. I think this is an option Portafina 
shouldve placed greater weight on as a possible option when advising Mr M or at least 
provided him with more details. The TFC wouldve likely met some of his immediate needs 
and provided him with a guaranteed income. I do note that this is mentioned within the 
suitability letter. So I think its likely that it was discussed with Mr M. But Mr M had already 
discounted the idea of taking £33,000 TFC and leaving the remainder invested. So, 
regardless of the level of discussion that was had around this, I dont think its likely Mr M 
wouldve proceeded down this route as its clear he favoured the option of taking the entire 
CETV as cash and, in my mind, he was unlikely to do anything different.
Ive also thought about Mr Ms point that he now wishes Portafina had been firmer with him. 
However, I note that Portafina did tell him a number of times the action he was taking was 
not in his best interests. And it confirmed this in more than one phone call. I think, on 
balance, regardless of what Portafina told Mr M at the time, he wouldve proceeded with his 
plan to take the full CETV as cash.
With all of this in mind, I'm satisfied that, regardless of any failings within Portafina's sales 
process, its more likely that not that Mr M would've proceeded with accessing the entire 
pension fund as this was his priority. And I think its clear that Mr M was intent on carrying 
out his plan to meet his objective, despite knowing it probably wasnt in his best interests to 
do so and knowing how much tax he would pay.
Im currently satisfied that Mr M understood the risks he was taking and the sacrifices he 
was making by doing so. I therefore think its reasonable to conclude that Mr M had made up 
his mind and he wanted to proceed with the transfer despite Portafinas advice not to do so.
I invited both parties to respond with any further points before 23 January 2023. 
Portafina accepted my decision. But Mr Ms representatives didnt. They said:
They strongly agreed with the Investigator who had upheld the complaint.
Mr M had no pension experience and was relying on Portafina.
The advice process was beyond confusing and Mr M hadnt been correctly treated as 
an insistent client. 
Portafina hadnt obtained a letter in Mr Ms own words explaining why he was going 
against its advice as per the FCAs requirements. 
Portafina shouldve refused to deal with Mr M as an insistent client.
Mr M couldve asked his employer for an extension to the temporary accommodation 
it was providing to him and he was not as desperate for the cash as he may have 
indicated.
Portafina shouldve established other ways to repay his small amount of debt as he 
was still employed and earning a regular income.
The complaint has now been passed back to me to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find myself coming to the same conclusions as I did in my provisional 
decision. And the findings Ive set out above should be considered as part of my final 
decision. But Ill address the points that Mr Ms representatives have made in response.
I accept that Mr M was inexperienced when it came to pensions, and he was reliant upon the 
advice provided by Portafina. However, whilst I still agree that the sales process was 
confusing and was not without fault, I maintain, as I set out in my provisional decision, that 
Mr M was aware that transferring wasnt in his best interests based on the professional 
advice he was receiving. He acknowledged this in the phone calls he had with Portafina on 
more than one occasion.
I disagree that Portafina didnt obtain Mr Ms reasons for transferring in his own words. 
Whilst it was brief, Mr M did write on one of the forms he completed that:
I need to have a fresh start and helps clear off small debt possible invest in a small holiday 
home.
Furthermore, whilst it may not have been in writing, during the phone call Mr M had with 
Portafina after the advice was provided, he clearly explained that he knew he was going 
against advice and again says that he wishes to have a fresh start. And I think Mr M was 
given ample opportunity to decide against proceeding with the transfer.
Mr Ms representatives state that his financial situation wasnt as bad as he may have said 
and that he couldve asked for an extension to the temporary accommodation his employer 
was providing. However, the evidence from the time shows Mr M told Portafina that he could 
only stay there for a month. And he also explained that he wasnt able to rent anywhere new 
until he had a deposit. Whilst its possible that he couldve asked his employer for an 
extension, it isnt known whether this wouldve been agreed, and it wasnt a long-term 
solution. He still wouldve needed to find somewhere to stay in the long-term which wouldve 
involved raising a deposit which Mr M said he couldnt do any other way.
I accept that Portafina couldve explored options to address Mr Ms debt such as a debt 
management plan. However, as Mr Ms representatives have said, this was a small amount. 
And I dont think that repaying debt was a key part of his reasoning for taking his full pension 
as a lump sum. Furthermore, this wouldnt have resolved his need for a rental deposit. Its 
also clear Mr M wanted to help his family. And whilst this may not have been a priority, its 
something he clearly was very keen to do.
Portafina couldve declined to treat Mr M as an insistent client. However, it wasnt obliged to 
do so. And I think Portafina made reasonable attempts to ensure Mr M understood it wasnt 
in his best interests to proceed with the transfer and take all of his pension as cash, 
particularly because of the large sum hed have to pay in tax. Overall, its clear to me, as I 
set out in my provisional decision, that Mr M had decided that he was going to take his 
pension as cash and I dont think anything Portafina couldve said wouldve stopped him 
from doing so. He was committed to his plan and, whilst he may now understand the impact 
and regret his choice, I think Portafina made Mr M sufficiently aware what he was giving up 
and that he shouldnt proceed and I think Mr M understood this.For these reasons, and those given in my provisional decision, I remain satisfied that, 
regardless of the flaws in Portafinas sales process, Mr M wouldve proceeded with 
transferring his pension and taking it all as cash.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman