DRN-3672807
The complaint
Mr N complains that Lloyds Bank PLC declined his claim bought under section 75 of the 
consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr N booked a holiday for himself and his partner, using his Lloyds credit card. 
The total cost of the package holiday was £1,656.24. Mr N raised the following concerns 
about his stay at the hotel;  
main outside bar was closed
entertainment wasnt provided every night
the balcony overlooked a street with a view of a building site
air condition switched off for 2 hours each day
poor food options on the menu and not as advertised
premium drinks not included in all-inclusive package 
no allergen information on the menu
substandard room, poorly fitted bedding and curtains falling off  
poor standard of housekeeping and hygiene 
noise at 3am
check-in was over an hour late 
Mr N was unable to resolve his concerns with the travel company, so he made a section 75 
claim and asked Lloyds to refund £1,122.57, the cost of the hotel.
Lloyds said it was unable to progress a chargeback because Mr N stayed at the hotel for the 
duration and received the accommodation paid for, so it didnt fit under the Mastercard 
reason- service not received. It looked at a section 75 claim but said there wasnt the 
necessary debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) relationship, because Mr N had paid a travel 
company who acted as an agent by booking the accommodation on behalf of the supplier 
(hotel), so there was a break in the DCS chain.
Mr N complained to Lloyds, it didnt think it had done anything wrong. Unhappy with its 
response, Mr N brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought there was a 
DCS link, but she didnt think there was sufficient evidence of either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation for a successful section 75 claim. She didnt recommend Lloyds take any 
further action.
Mr N disagreed, he asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
And our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the nature of our service as a free and 
informal alternative to the courts.
Generally, where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, the 
card provider can consider the dispute under two guises- chargeback and section 75 claim. 
Lloyds considered both, Ive set out my findings under the headings below.
Chargeback  
Chargeback is a process by which disputes are resolved between the card issuer and 
merchant, under the relevant card scheme. There is no right for a consumer to require that a 
chargeback claim be made. But if the right to make a chargeback claim exists under the 
applicable scheme rules  and if there is a reasonable prospect of success  I consider it to 
be good practice for a chargeback claim to be made.
 
Lloyds considered the dispute under the chargeback Mastercard scheme but said there 
wasnt a valid chargeback reason to cover the issue with quality of services provided. And as 
Mr N received the accommodation and stayed at the hotel for the duration of the holiday, it 
couldnt consider a claim under the service not received reason.
I can see there is another chargeback reason Lloyds could have considered Mr Ns dispute 
under - goods/service not being as described. However, from the correspondence Mr N has 
provided I think it is clear the hotel and the travel company disputed his complaint, so I think 
that even if Lloyds had submitted a chargeback under this reason, I think it is likely the travel 
company would have defended the chargeback and considering the evidence provided, I 
dont think a chargeback would have been successful. In the circumstances, I dont think 
Lloyds made a mistake when it didnt pursue a chargeback on Mr Ns behalf.
Section 75 claim
In certain circumstances section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr N to hold Lloyds liable for 
breaches of contract by the travel company or misrepresentations made by it in relation to 
the agreement made. Mr N purchased a package holiday put together by the travel 
company. The travel companys own terms and conditions, in line with the Package Travel 
and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018, sets out that the travel company is 
responsible for the package holiday. So, Im satisfied the required, DCS relationship for 
section 75 claim is here.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces the consumer to enter an 
agreement and the consumer suffers loss because of the misrepresentation. Mr N says the 
hotel facilities were misrepresented.
Mr N said the hotel was advertised as having an outside bar, but it was closed. I havent 
seen the travel companys response to Mr Ns complaint, but in his follow up email it 
indicates the hotel said the bar was closed due to staff shortages because of covid. Mr N 
said he had to order drinks at the caf, and whilst I can appreciate his frustration, I think the 
hotel made an alternative arrangement to allow guest to order drinks. So, Im not persuaded 
Mr N suffered any material detriment because of the bar closure, it follows I dont think this 
amounts to misrepresentation.
Mr N complains that entertainment wasnt provided for every night of his stay. The travel 
companys description says the bar often hosts live entertainment, it doesnt promise daily entertainment, so I cant reasonably say the frequency of the live entertainment was 
misrepresented to Mr N.
Mr N complains his balcony room overlooked a street. However, I cant see that Mr N was 
promised a beach or pool view in his booking confirmation, so I cant say the room was mis-
sold to him. Mr N also says there were building works nearby, which he could see from his 
room. However, I think this would have been outside the control of the hotel and not their 
responsibility. 
Mr N said the air conditioning in his room was switched off for 2 hours each day. The travel 
companys description states the rooms have air conditioning. Again, I havent seen anything 
to show Mr N was promised air conditioning would remain on for 24 hours, so Im not 
persuaded there was any false statement made about the air conditioning.
Mr N says the pool menu offered was different from the one advertised on the website when 
he made the booking. However, its very common for restaurant menus to change, due to 
seasonality and product availability. And I havent seen a copy of the menu Mr N received at 
the hotel, nor have I seen anything to suggest Mr N was guaranteed a particular menu, so, 
whilst I appreciate, he was disappointed with the available pool food choices, I cant 
reasonably say there was a misrepresentation.
Mr N is unhappy that premium drinks were not included in his all-inclusive package. I can 
appreciate it would have been disappointing to learn that hed need to pay extra for certain 
drinks. However, it isnt unusual in the holiday industry to get local or lesser brand drinks as 
part of all- inclusive package, whilst premium brands need to be paid for. I appreciate the 
drinks menu on the hotels website didnt explain premium drinks were not included in the all-
inclusive package, but Im not persuaded the inclusion of every brand of drink in his 
package, would have been a key factor in Mr N deciding to book this particular hotel, so I 
dont think there was a misrepresentation.
In addition to the above concerns Mr N also raised concerns about the hotel not meeting the 
standards he expected. Ive considered below whether these issues amount to a breach of 
contract.
Breach of contract
The relevant law says goods must be of satisfactory quality and services must be performed 
with reasonable care and skill. If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract can be said to 
have occurred. In considering what is satisfactory quality Ive also taken into account the 
cost of Mr Ns hotel accommodation, which was £46.77 per person, per night.
Mr N said his partner had a nut allergy and they had to eat elsewhere and incur additional 
costs because there was no allergen information provided on the menu. The menu had a 
general disclaimer stating some dishes may contain nuts or gluten. Whilst I accept this 
wasnt sufficient information on its own, I think it would have been reasonable to ask the 
restaurant to advise which dishes didnt contain nuts. And there was nothing stopping Mr N 
from contacting the hotel when he was making his booking to let it know in advance about 
the special dietary requirements, particularly as he was booking an all-inclusive package. 
So, I dont think this amounts to a breach of contract.
Mr N says the hotel was advertised as 4 stars, but his room was substandard. He explained 
the curtains and netting was falling off, a plug socket didnt work, and the bedding was ill 
fitted. I havent seen any images of the broken socket or the curtains/netting but accept the 
bedding in the image doesnt fit well. Whilst I acknowledge the room did not meet Mr Ns 
expectations, taking into account that he was paying £46.77 per night per person, I think the basic expectations of the hotel room were met, so I cant fairly conclude there was a breach 
of contract.
 
Mr N complains the food lacked taste, there was very little variety and was poorly presented. 
The quality of the food is subjective and whilst I accept the food may not have been to Mr 
Ns liking, the hotel website advertises buffet style food, and from the images Mr N provided, 
this appears to be what he got, so I dont think there was a misrepresentation or a breach of 
contract. 
Mr N also complained about the standard of hygiene by hotel staff and the poor standards by 
the housekeeping staff. I havent seen any evidence to confirm these issues, but I think they 
could have been resolved by the hotel if they were reported at the time. I dont have enough 
evidence to confirm the services were not caried out with reasonable care or skill, so I dont 
think this amounts to a breach of contract.
Mr N also complained about being woken by noise at 3am on more than one occasion, but I 
havent seen any evidence to confirm what caused the noise nor whether the hotel was 
responsible for it. In addition, Mr N is unhappy that he waited over an hour for his room to be 
ready at check in. I appreciate this would have been frustrating to wait for the room to be 
serviced, however I dont think these issues amount to a material breach of contract.
Im sorry Mr N was disappointed with his experience at the hotel, and I understand his 
strength of feeling about it, however Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence of 
misrepresentation or a breach of contract, so in the circumstances, I dont think Lloyds 
decision to decline his section 75 claim was unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman