DRN-3259448
The complaint
Miss B complains about the service received from, and the repairs carried out by, Zurich 
Insurance Plcs contractors following her real estate insurance claim for damage caused to 
her tenanted apartment 
What happened
In around November 2020, Miss B contacted Zurich to make a claim on her real estate 
policy. The claim was accepted and Zurich appointed contractors who visited the property 
shortly afterwards, scoped the repairs and submitted a repair estimate. Miss B asked the 
contractors to liaise with the tenant. 
In early December Zurich contacted the tenant and two appointments were arranged but on 
arrival access wasnt possible. It met with the tenant shortly after, drew up a materials list 
and on 21 December 2020 Miss B was able to make material choices. 
On 27 December 2020, Miss B complained to Zurich that its contractors had left items on the 
balcony of the property that had been subsequently damaged by high winds. In early 
January 2021, Zurich let Miss B that there were delays with the delivery of some tiles due to 
the pandemic lockdown. Two days later, the contractors let Zurich know that they were 
struggling to gain access to the property from the tenant. Zurich contacted Miss B to let her 
know and to tell her that the items that were damaged from being left on the balcony would 
be replaced. 
On 18 & 20 January 2021, the contractors were refused access by the tenant. At the end of 
the month, Miss B asked Zurich for photographs of the work, the date it was completed and 
the dates the tenant caused appointments to be missed. 
In mid-February 2021 Zurich attempted three times to contact the tenant in an attempt to 
obtain images of the repairs its contractor had carried out, however, it was unable to do so. 
Miss B complained to Zurich in March 2021. She said she was unhappy about: 
Items left on the balcony that became damaged
Items being left in the communal area
The time it took for repairs to be completed
The tiles in the shower not being like for like
The lack of communication from contractors
There being no photos after the repairs were completed
Zurich looked into her complaint and issued its final response letter in July 2021. It said that 
the contractors had left the shower, shower tray and associated equipment on the balcony 
so as to avoid having to remove them from site. Zurich said it was sorry Miss B hadnt been 
told about it and it was sorry the items were subsequently damaged in high winds. It said 
that, whilst it appreciated that the items were replaced, it agreed that the situation wasnt 
ideal. With regard to the items left in the communal area, it said the contractors said that this 
was bagged debris for which there was no room in the flat and that they were only left in the 
communal area for a short period. 
Zurich went on to say that the tiles the contractors used had been selected by Miss B but if 
she retained concerns then the contractors were willing to review the newly tiled areas with 
her once she regained access to the property. 
Zurich said there was a small period of delay in progressing the claim whilst delivery of the 
tiles was awaited but that delay was a result of issues associated with the pandemic which 
were outside its contractors control. It said that whilst the claim itself had taken longer than it 
would expect to complete, it felt this was mainly due to issues associated with gaining 
access to the property. It said there were three logged dates its contractors couldnt gain 
access but there were also other, unlogged dates, where they had stopped by the property 
when passing but were also unable to gain access. 
Zurich acknowledged that Miss B had asked the contractors to take photographs of the 
completed repairs prior to their completion. It said the contractors had attempted to contact 
the tenant to arrange to attend after the repairs were completed but all the attempts had 
been unsuccessful. Zurich apologised that its contractors hadnt taken the photographs prior 
to leaving site. 
Zurich agreed that the service Miss B had received hadnt always been up to its usual high 
standard so it offered her compensation of £500 for any inconvenience and upset shed 
been caused. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Zurichs investigation, Miss B complained to this service. 
Whilst our investigator looked into Miss Bs complaint, she continued to liaise with Zurich 
about the tiles. In early August, Zurich said it could understand Miss Bs concerns and 
offered her further compensation of £150 and a loss of appearance payment of £200. 
Having looked into Miss Bs complaint, our investigator didnt recommend that it was upheld. 
He thought Zurich had addressed Miss Bs concerns fairly and reasonably. 
Miss B disagreed with our investigators findings. She said she had sent Zurich a photograph 
of the tiles and the website they were to be ordered from but the tiles that arrived on site 
werent the same as those the contractors said theyd ordered. Miss B said much time and 
stress couldve been avoided if the contractors had used the correct tiles and if theyd take 
photographs of the repairs as they were going along. Miss B said Zurich had offered her a 
further £350 but shed not accepted it as she felt she was due more as shed paid more to 
make sure the right tiles were installed. 
Our investigator reviewed what Miss B had said but wasnt persuaded to change his mind, 
so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for any disappointment it will cause Miss B, Im unable to uphold her complaint. 
Ill explain why.
 
Firstly, it is worth mentioning that I can only look here at the complaint that was made to 
Zurich and addressed by it in its final response letter of 13 July 2021. If Miss B wishes to 
complain about having to order and pay for an alternative batch of tiles (and that the compensation for this of £350 which Zurich has since offered her), for which she thinks 
Zurich should reimburse her, then she must raise this with Zurich in the first instance. We 
are unable to look at complaints unless the financial business concerned has first had an 
opportunity to address them and issue its final response. So regrettably, whilst I note what 
Miss B said to our investigator about ordering the correct tiles and being out of pocket, Im 
unable to consider that within the confines of this complaint. 
All insurance claims come with a certain level of inconvenience attached to them; thats to be 
expected. But where and insurer, through its words and/or deeds makes an already stressful 
situation worse, this service can require it to pay its policyholder compensation. When 
thinking about what fair compensation may look like in a given circumstance, we always 
have regard to how the insurer has addressed the complaint itself and what, if any, 
compensation it has already paid or offered. 
Here, aside from the issue with the tiles, Miss Bs complaints are about the service she 
received from Zurich. Zurich has accepted that its contractors shouldnt have left anything on 
the balcony of the property, apologised and replaced the items. I think that is a fair response 
to this complaint. 
I think that leaving the bags of debris in the communal areas of the property was far from 
ideal particularly as the management company doesnt allow items to be left in communal 
areas. If there was no space inside the flat to store the bags then alternative arrangements 
for storing them should indeed have been made. 
I can see that there were short delays in moving the claim along but, in the main, these were 
outside Zurichs control as they were due to the supplier of the tiles delaying delivery due to 
the then current lockdown, and the tenant denying the contractor access. Whilst I can see 
that these delays wouldve caused Miss B stress and frustration, neither reason was the fault 
of Zurich. But I can also see there was a delay of about a week at the start of the claim after 
Zurich had received the contractors scope of works. Zurich has said this was due to a 
technical error. Overall, I think Zurich was only responsible for a small part of the delays 
associated with the claim as principally they were the result of the actions of Miss Bs tenant 
for which it wouldnt be fair to hold Zurich responsible.
With regard to the tiles selected for the shower, Zurich has said that they were ordered using 
the product numbers supplied by Miss B. Nevertheless, Zurich has said that once Miss B 
has regained access to the property (I understand she is engaged in litigation with the 
tenant) it is happy to review the issue of the tiles with her. Given the circumstances around 
gaining access to the property I think this is a reasonable resolution to this aspect of 
Miss Bs complaint and, in the absence of any photographs of the replaced tiles, I cant fairly 
find that the incorrect tiles were used.  
I can see that communication with, and by, the contractors could have been better at times. 
For example, I can see the complaint Miss B raised with them about the service shed 
received wasnt forwarded by them to Zurich for a number of months. I can understand that 
this mustve caused some additional stress and frustration to Miss B.
Zurich has apologised to Miss B for not asking its contractors to take photographs of the 
repairs, as shed requested, before they left the site. Given the difficulties in gaining access, 
this is regrettable and I can understand why this has caused Miss B the distress it has. 
When thinking what fair compensation looks like we take all the circumstances of the 
complaint into account. For the reasons Ive set out above, I can see that some of Zurichs 
actions have caused Miss B additional trouble and upset above and beyond that which is 
normally associated with making and insurance claim. Ive thought about this services approach to compensation awards and I think that the amount of £500 that Zurich has 
offered Miss B in respect of her complaint (as addressed in its final response letter of 13 July 
2021) is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and is in broadly in line with awards we 
have made in similar case. Indeed if this complaint had passed across my desk without an 
offer of compensation having already been made by Zurich, its unlikely Id have awarded 
any more than this. 
I also think Zurichs apologies and offer to return to the flat once access is gained to look at 
the tiles are fair and reasonable. Whilst I appreciate this is not the outcome Miss B wouldve 
hoped for, it follows that I cant reasonably require Zurich to do any more than it has already 
done and Im unable to fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman