DRN-4039178
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained about several aspects of their home insurance claim as they didnt 
think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) treated them fairly or compensated 
them reasonably during the rectification works at their home.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P made a claim to RSA following a leak at their property. The claim was 
validated by RSA and was accepted. It appointed contractors to manage the rectification 
works following the damage. However, Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with different aspects of 
the process.
Mr and Mrs P said they made their claim in August 2020 and the rectification works werent 
completed until June 2022. They felt unsatisfied with parts of the work. They thought there 
were unreasonable delays which led to the work taking too long. During this time, Mr and 
Mrs P didnt feel they were treated fairly  they didnt have cooking facilities and were 
unhappy a temporary kitchen pod wasnt provided or alternative accommodation whilst the 
works were in progress.
Mr and Mrs P felt the communication from RSA was insufficient and they didnt feel like their 
work was a priority. Mr and Mrs P have asked for compensation of £20,000. Theyve 
estimated two hotel rooms wouldve cost RSA £900 a week from September 2021 to June 
2022.
RSA said it offered alternative accommodation (AA) whilst the works were taking place as 
cooking facilities werent available. Mr and Mrs P did reside in AA for twenty days or so, but 
they preferred to be at home. RSA said due to the circumstances a temporary kitchen pod 
wasnt an option, so it offered to pay a disturbance allowance as a gesture of goodwill. RSA 
said the property was dry in July 2021, but a new damp problem meant the repairs couldnt 
be completed. As trace and access wasnt provided under the cover, Mr and Mrs P had their 
own plumber identify the cause of the leak / damp area. RSA arranged for this area to be 
dried. 
RSA said the cause of the secondary damp area was due to a historic issue before it was on 
site. However, Mr and Mrs P thought this was caused by the work carried out by RSA. 
During this investigation and drying out of the second leak, RSA initially put the disturbance 
allowance payment on hold. However, it changed its mind on this point, and paid this by 
backdating the payment to Mr and Mrs P for an amount of £3,995. RSA said the damp would 
re-surface if Mr and Mrs P didnt address an issue with their damp course.
However, RSA did acknowledge it had caused some minor delays during the claim, for 
example, there was a delay for the report from one of its contractors  so it paid Mr and Mrs 
P £100 compensation for these delays, as well as £100 for temporarily halting the 
disturbance allowance payments.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought RSA had provided 
evidence that is had carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ps issues during the claim and that it 
had fairly addressed these. He thought the compensation paid by RSA was reasonable for 
distress and inconvenience it had caused. Mr and Mrs P disagreed, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 16 February 2023. I said:
Its important to point out that I can only consider the points that RSA has had the 
opportunity to address in this specific complaint. Mr and Mrs P made another complaint in 
relation to this claim and RSA issued a final response to that complaint on 25 May 2021, 
which included an offer of compensation. Therefore, I cant consider these points again, so 
in my decision I will focus on whats happened after this date.
I have first considered whether I think Mr and Mrs P have been provided with an adequate 
allowance or AA during the claim. RSA paid for Mr and Mrs P and their family to reside in AA 
when the works deprived them from the use of their kitchen facilities. I think this was a 
sensible and reasonable approach.
AA doesnt suit everyone, and Mr and Mrs P decided they would prefer to be in their own 
home. I dont think this was a decision encouraged or influenced by RSA. But I can see RSA 
started paying Mr and Mrs P £35 a day disturbance allowance as a goodwill gesture at this 
point. I think this is reasonable and is slightly higher than industry norms which are £10 per 
adult or £5 per child per day. The disturbance allowance wont cover everything, but it is in 
recognition that living conditions are tougher so costs maybe higher during this period (E.g., 
eating out or takeaway food instead of home cooked food).
Mr and Mrs P has asked for significant compensation on top of this  theyve calculated this 
based upon what the cost of AA was likely to cost. However, it was their decision to move 
out of AA. RSA dont have an obligation to pay Mr and Mrs P the savings it made from 
paying disturbance allowance versus the cost of it paying AA. I think RSA has paid 
reasonable expenses to reflect the conditions Mr and Mrs P were facing at the time.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P were unhappy a temporary kitchen pod wasnt a viable option. 
However, I can see that RSA did explore this, but due to the layout of the property this 
wasnt possible. I dont think this can be held against RSA. And I cant see that there was a 
specific request at this point for Mr and Mrs P to be re-housed in AA. Therefore, I dont think 
RSA has done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy with delays with their claim. I have looked at the timeline of 
events since the 25 May 2021. A significant amount of time of the claim was drying the 
property out after the leak. This was extended due to a second area of dampness that was 
discovered. With any repairs, I think its reasonable for the insurer to properly dry the house 
out  doing any repairs and decoration before this time wouldnt be pragmatic as the damp 
would cause future issues. So, I cant find fault in RSA waiting for the property to be dry.
I can see there was a disagreement in relation to the second damp area. Once RSA had 
identified this area, it requested for Mr and Mrs P to arrange for the cause of this to be 
pinpointed. RSA explained to Mr and Mrs P they didnt have trace and access services 
provided under their policy, so they needed to source their own contractor to locate the leak 
and fix it. I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to set this expectation given Mr and Mrs 
P hadnt paid for this type of cover.
Once the area of dampness had been pinpointed there was a disagreement on the exact 
cause. Mr and Mrs P suggested it was caused by some of RSAs previous work. RSAs contractor reported it was due to an air flow issue through the brickwork due to crumbled 
mortar. As this was contested by Mr and Mrs P, a second surveyor was appointed to review 
the cause of the damp. He agreed to the findings of the previous contractor. I can see there 
was evidence of longstanding damp issues as the brickwork had previously been injected. I 
havent seen any evidence or expert reports to support Mr and Mrs Ps viewpoint, so I find 
the expert report produced by RSAs contractor to be persuasive. Therefore, I dont think its 
fair to say RSA has been responsible for these delays.
RSA did stop the disturbance allowance temporarily during this period and effectively put the 
claim on hold. However, Im glad it changed its mind on this and paid Mr and Mrs P the 
allowance during this time. It paid £100 compensation for causing some distress here. I think 
this is reasonable, as I think RSA has fairly put Mr and Mrs P back in the position they 
shouldve been in.
I have reviewed the overall timeline from June 2021 to January 2022 when the final 
response on the complaint was made (Im not considering pre-May 2021). Whilst I 
appreciate a significant amount of time has passed, I cant see obvious periods of delay 
caused by RSA. RSA has said it couldve speeded up some minor aspects and has already 
compensated Mr and Mrs P £100 for this inconvenience. But, as I cant see evidence of 
extended delays caused by RSA, I wont be recommending anything further here.
Mr and Mrs P were unhappy their underfloor heating wasnt connected by RSA, and they 
had to pay separately for this. The policy is a normal home insurance policy, in that it covers 
re-instatement, replacement and repair. Mr and Mrs P didnt have underfloor heating before 
the leak, so this represented an upgrade to their previous facilities. As this wasnt covered by 
the policy, I dont think its fair to expect RSA to pay this. Mr and Mrs P hadnt paid RSA 
anything in their premium to cover this work. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P have had a difficult experience and this will have placed strains on 
their family and day to day living. I think Mr and Mrs Ps vulnerable circumstances may have 
made it more difficult for them to understand telephone communications. Therefore, Ive 
considered whether RSA did everything expected of them in this claim to help Mr and Mrs P.
I think its clear that RSA wouldve had an awareness that Mr and Mrs P had certain needs. I 
can see Mr and Mrs P explained these needs when they made their complaint and 
expressed their vulnerability. However, having been made aware of this vulnerability, it 
doesnt appear that RSA has acted upon it. 
I wouldve expected to see evidence of RSA asking Mr and Mrs P whether they needed it to 
do anything differently or to make any adjustments to take account of the vulnerability. As I 
havent seen evidence that RSA has done this, I dont think it has treated Mr and Mrs P 
fairly. I think this has led to a greater level of communication difficulties during the claim than 
I would normally expect. I think this is likely to have added to Mr and Mrs Ps confusion with 
what was happening with the claim. I think they wouldve found it difficult to follow what was 
happening.
As the claim has been so protracted, I think the strain on Mr and Mrs P wouldve been 
significant. I think this has been intensified by their vulnerable circumstances, so I think the 
impact on them wouldve been greater. So, whilst I dont hold RSA accountable for the 
delays, I do think it shouldve done more to help Mr and Mrs P to understand the problems 
and to explain the process. Therefore, for the distress and inconvenience this has caused, I 
intend to award £500 in compensation. So, I intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decisionNeither party has indicated whether they accept my provisional decision and they have not 
provided any further information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to:
Pay Mr and Mrs P £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience (this is in 
addition to the £200 already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman