DRN-3754962
The complaint
Ms M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank irresponsibly 
provided her with a credit card that she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Tesco provided Ms M with a credit card, following her application, on 5 July 2017. The credit 
limit was £3,400 and hasnt been increased. She complained that the high credit limit meant 
that she was unable to clear the balance since 2017 and has been in persistent debt with 
Tesco since 2019. She complained to Tesco saying that it shouldnt have issued a credit 
card to her. She pointed out that the time of the application she had had a persistent 
overdraft with her bank which she had only recently been able to pay off and that between 
2011 and 2012 she had taken out 24 payday loans. She has provided copies of her bank 
statements at the time of the application and a credit report from November 2017, and other 
information concerning her debts at the time.
Tesco said it reviewed information from credit reference agencies and Ms Ms application 
before approving it. It didnt verify her income but accepted what she had told it. It believed 
that the credit card with the limit imposed was affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our adjudicator said that he believed the 
information Tesco gathered showed that Ms M could likely afford the credit card as it 
appeared she would have enough income to make regular, sustainable repayments towards 
the card.
Ms M disagreed, pointing out that Tesco had underestimated her level of debt, not taking 
into account three defaults on her record which she was still paying for. She further pointed 
out that she had made a complaint about another credit card provider who had increased her 
credit limit in April 2017, and that complaint had been upheld.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Tesco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms M 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Ms M would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Tesco ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Ms Ms indebtedness 
in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt have provided 
further credit?
At the time of Ms Ms application, Tesco checked her credit record. It didnt verify her income 
but I believe that in her application Ms M had accurately set out her income. The credit 
record showed that Ms M had another credit card which at the time of the report had a 
balance on it of £6,432. It also showed that Ms M had three defaulted accounts, the latest of 
which had been in default since January 2016. The amount owing on the defaulted accounts 
was said to be £4,200. There were no other active accounts showing. She was paying £48 a 
month on the defaulted accounts. If I accept that this is the information Tesco saw then it 
does appear that from the credit check there were no concerns about Ms Ms credit status at 
the time.
Ms Ms income was about £2,400 a month. Taking into account her rent payment and 
assessing her living expenses using ONS (Office for National Statistics) data, Tesco said 
that Ms M should have had monthly disposable income of nearly £800. On the face of it this 
should have been sufficient to make the payments for the credit card. Having reviewed her 
bank statements I think that was a fair assessment.
I understand that Ms M disagrees. She has advised that, as well as the defaulted account on 
which around £4,500 was outstanding, she had two further defaulted loans, one with a 
balance of over £14,500 dating back to 2008 and the other of over £7,800 dating back to 
2009. Whilst Tesco referred to three defaults, I have seen no information about those earlier 
defaults on Tescos records. And in fairness neither of these two earlier loans show on the 
credit report Mis M has supplied, dated November 2017. So Im inclined to believe that 
Tesco would have been unaware of the amount of those debts.
As for Ms Ms overdraft I note that this was paid off in October 2016 and had remained so 
until the date of the application (and continued to have a £0 balance up until the November 
2017 credit report). So I dont think that Tesco would have been alerted to carry out any 
further investigations of Ms Ms finances like checking her bank account. As for the payday 
loans, none of them were active at the time of Ms Ms application, nor had been for some 
time, so they wouldnt be of relevance in assessing the affordability of the credit to be 
provided. 
As regards Ms Ms complaint about her other credit card provider, this was a complaint 
about an unrequested increase in her credit limit. No ombudsmans decision was made in 
that case. The recent default may have been more relevant in that case. Ive noted that in 
this case Tesco assessed the affordability score and agreed to issue the card  it says if the 
score had been lower it would have declined the card due to the defaults. All complaints 
considered by us are decided on their own merits. 
Overall I think that Tesco carried out proportionate checks, and that the results of those 
checks did show that credit card with the limit provided was affordable. Im not persuaded 
that from the evidence Ive seen, Tesco needed to carry out any more detailed checks 
before issuing the card.
So I think that Tesco made a fair lending decision in issuing the credit card to Ms M.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman