DRN-4186900
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC took £288.12 from his Barclays current account
without his authority and pursued him for a loan he believed had been written off.
What happened
Mr L had a current account and a personal loan with Barclays  to which he was making 
monthly payments of £72.03 by direct debit from his Barclays current account. In September 
2021, Barclays made the commercial decision to close Mr Ls current account with 
immediate effect. This had the effect of cancelling the direct debit that was set up to make 
monthly payments to the Barclays loan.
Mr L didnt hear anything from Barclays about the loan for several months and believed that
it had been written off when Barclays decided to no longer provide a current account to him.
However, Barclays did later contact Mr L and said that he remained liable to repay the
outstanding balance of the loan, which was now in arrears.
Mr L wasnt happy about this, and he also wasnt happy to discover that, when Barclays had
closed his current account, theyd transferred £288.12  equivalent to four payments of
£72.03  to his loan account without his authorisation. So, he raised a complaint.
Barclays discussed Mr Ls complaint with him but didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly in how
theyd managed the situation. Mr L wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred
his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that there was no evidence to
suggest that Barclays had ever written the loan off or had told Mr L that there would do so,
and so they felt that Mr L should remain liable for the outstanding balance of the loan.
But our investigator did feel that Barclays had acted unfairly towards Mr L by taking the
£288.12 from his current account without his authorisation, and so they recommended that
Barclays should make a payment of £250 to him as compensation for any trouble and upset
he may have incurred as a result. Mr L remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 June 2023 as follows:
Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of 
Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to
declare that Barclays have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way.
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we 
do take relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our 
remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has 
occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the circumstances and 
factors of a complaint into consideration.
Barclays have explained that they arent able to confirm who initiated the transfer of 
the £288.12 from Mr Ls current account to the loan account, but that they believe it 
was most likely to have been Mr L himself.
Barclays note that they have record of Mr L providing his driving license in branch to 
remove the blocks from his current account on the day the transfer was made, and 
they feel its likely that Mr L, being aware that his loan account still needed to be paid 
despite the closure of his current account, then transferred four months of payments 
into the loan account so that his loan wouldnt fall into arrears while he made 
alterative banking arrangements.
Barclays also note that after the transfer into the loan account, a balance remained 
present in the current account for some time, which they feel means that transfer off 
the £288.12 into the loan account wasnt undertaken as part of any account closure 
process. Finally, Barclays explain that they can think of no reason why branch staff 
would make such a transfer unless instructed to do so by Mr L himself.
Conversely, Mr L has explained to this service that he didnt authorise the transfer 
and that he wasnt aware that it had taken place until he contacted Barclays after 
receiving correspondence about the loan balance he believed had been written off 
when Barclays made the decision to close his current account.
In instance such as this, where the versions of events put forwards by the 
complainant and the respondent business are in contradiction with one another, I 
must decide  if I feel its reasonably possible to do so  which of the versions of 
events I feel is most likely to have happened, on balance, and in consideration of all 
the information and evidence available.
In this instance, upon consideration, I find the version of events put forwards by 
Barclays to be more persuasive here. As such, I feel its more likely than not that the 
£288.12 transfer from the current account to the loan account was instructed and 
authorised by Mr L.
I say this because I feel, given that its been evidenced that Mr L was in branch on 
the day in question and did present his driving license to unblock the current account, 
that its more plausible and likely that he would have then also have made the 
transfer to the loan account to cover the upcoming loan payments while he was 
making alternative banking arrangements  rather than the alternative possibility, 
which is that having unblocked his account, Mr L didnt then make that transfer and 
that it was instead made by Barclays branch staff without the knowledge of Mr L and 
without any input or authorisation from him.
Of course, I wasnt present in branch on the day in question, so this isnt to say that 
Mr L did definitely authorise the transfer as Ive described here. But it is to say that I 
feel its more likely than not that Mr L authorised the transfer of the £288.12 to the 
loan account  given when Ive explained. And because I feel that Mr L did most 
likely authorise the transfer, it follows that I wont be upholding this aspect of his 
complaint.Mr L has explained that he believed his Barclays personal loan had been written off 
by Barclays because he didnt receive any correspondence from them about the loan 
for several months, following the closure of his current account.
But the consequence of the transfer to the loan account was that the necessary 
funds were present in the loan account for the next four monthly payments to be 
taken without incident. And it was only after those four monthly payments were made 
 and with no further payments being made by Mr L towards the loan account  that 
the loan fell into arrears so that Barclays then contacted Mr L about it.
It must be noted that it wouldnt generally be expected that Barclays would write off a 
loan upon the closure of a current account owned by the loan account holder. Rather, 
given that a current account and a personal loan are separate products, it would 
usually be the case that it would be for the loan account holder to make alternative 
banking arrangements to pay the loan, which they would remain liable for, following 
the closure of their current account. And as alluded to above, I feel that its more 
likely than not that Mr L may have addressed this problem by transferring the 
£288.12 to the loan account.
Finally, having reviewed all the information provided to this service, I havent seen 
anything which suggests that Barclays informed Mr L that they would write off the 
balance of the personal loan at the time of the closing of the current account.
All of which means that I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly towards Mr L 
here, and so my provisional decision will be that I wont be upholding this complaint.
Mr L responded to my provisional decision letter and said that he hadnt been in branch as 
Barclays contended and that Barclays were lying about this point. 
I appreciate Mr Ls strength of feeling here. But as explained above, when the testimonies of 
a complainant and a respondent business are in contradiction with one another, I must 
decide which version of events I feel is the most plausible and likely to have happened. 
And, in this instance, even after taking Mr Ls protests into account, I remain persuaded by 
the version of events put forwards by Barclays  for the reasons explained above  and I 
dont feel that Barclays would present fabricated evidence to this service as Mr L suggests.
All of which means that my final decision here is that I wont be upholding this complaint. I 
realise this wont be the outcome Mr L was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman