DRN-3549100
The complaint
Mrs N has complained about Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd. She isnt happy that its agent turned 
down a claim under her breakdown policy and the delays she faced. For ease of reading any 
reference to Bastion includes its agents.
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mrs N was with her very young child, when she broke down on the motorway. She was in a 
very vulnerable position and called for assistance under her breakdown policy. Bastion didnt 
send a breakdown recovery agent initially while it negotiated where Mrs Ns car would be 
recovered to. And when its agent did attend it couldnt charge the battery on Mrs Ns car and 
said there was an electrical fault which in effect meant it couldnt transport her car without 
specialist equipment, which was excluded under the policy.
This meant Mrs Ns car had to be removed from the motorway by the police to its compound 
as it couldnt be left in the dangerous position it was in. The police recovery agent charged 
Mrs Ns battery and towed the car. When Mrs N complained to Bastion about this it said that 
it had done all it could to help Mrs N but specialist equipment was required to transport her 
car which was excluded under the policy. So Mrs N complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ns complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
outlined that Bastion had acted reasonably and simply followed the policy terms and 
conditions. She didnt think Bastion delayed attending and accepted that it acted reasonably 
as the policy excluded the use of specialist equipment. 
As Mrs N didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld. Ill explain why.
I know Bastions agent believes there wasnt any delay in dispatching a recovery agent to 
Mrs N. But it took over four hours to get to Mrs N who was in a difficult and vulnerable 
position with her young child at the side of the road. And I note quite a period of time was 
taken even before a breakdown agent was requested by Bastion. I know Bastion feels that it 
had to agree the parameters of the recovery before dispatch, but I think it could have looked 
to get a recovery vehicle dispatched while discussing things with Mrs N. The sort of problem 
Mrs N experienced is exactly the sort of problem people buy a roadside assistance policy to 
protect them against and I think Bastion should have dispatched a recovery vehicle far 
quicker, especially given Mrs Ns circumstances. So there clearly was some delay and a 
period of four hours is clearly too long for someone in Mrs Ns vulnerable position, and I think 
she should be compensated for this.
Turning to the recovery of Mrs Ns vehicle I cant be sure what happened. But I think the fact 
the police recovery agent was able to get charge in the battery so they could access the car 
and transport it without specialised equipment shows it was possible. So, it is surprising that 
Bastions recovery agent wasnt able to do this.
Given the polices recovery agent did this so easily I think, on balance, Bastions recovery 
agent should have been able to do this. I accept the general point Bastion has made that 
things may have changed. But given the relatively short timeframe between its recovery 
agent attending and the police removal, and the fact that no change has been identified to 
the vehicle, I think its recovery agent should have recovered Mrs N. I certainly dont think the 
police recovery vehicle would have been better equipped than the breakdown agent as 
Bastion has suggested. And there is no suggestion that any specialist equipment was used.
So, it should cover the additional costs Mrs N incurred but for its agents error  refund the 
£150 highway removal cost and the £120 parking charge (subject to reasonable evidence) 
paying 8% simple interest in line with our usual approach for the time Mrs N has been 
without the money.
Plus, I think Mrs N should be compensated for the clear stress and inconvenience she faced 
in both having to wait in a vulnerable and difficult position at the side of the road with her 
young family. And for the additional stress and inconvenience faced in having to get her car 
removed to a compound by the police or highway patrol as opposed to simply moved to a 
garage for repair under the roadside assistance cover shed bought. So, I think Bastion 
should pay Mrs N £150 compensation.
Replies and developments
Both sides responded. Mrs N was glad the matter had been looked into in detail and didnt 
wish to comment any further as she accepted the position outlined.
While Bastions agent reiterated its position generally and said it thought there were several 
assumptions made within the provisional decision. It says that it has to gain all the detail it 
needs before agreeing the parameters of the recovery. And goes on to say it feels I have 
shown bias by expressing an opinion that the kind of problem Mrs N faced is exactly the sort 
of problem people buy a roadside assistance recovery policy to protect them against. 
Plus, Bastion said again that it feels the problem with Mrs Ns car was partly in relation to the 
battery and feels that there clearly was a change in the vehicle after its recovery agent 
attended as opposed to a failure to diagnose properly. Bastion also highlighted again that 
the police recovery vehicle could have been better equipped than its own recovery agent. 
Ultimately, Bastion maintained that the policy wording cant be ignored which says This 
policy will not apply for any claim caused by, arising from, or relating to, the following: The 
charges of any other company (including police recovery) other than Our Breakdown and 
recovery operator or of car hire or accommodation charges except for those authorised by 
Us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having again considered everything in full I maintain that the fair and reasonable thing to do, 
in the particular circumstances of this case, is to uphold this complaint. I know Bastion feels 
that there have been assumptions and that the policy terms and conditions havent been considered but I can assure Bastions agent that they have. And there has been a full 
consideration of all the evidence provided by both sides
Looking at the dispatch time of the recovery agent to Mrs N, who was in a vulnerable 
position at the side of the road with a young child and Bastions recovery agent highlighted 
the dangerous position the car was in, I can see that it took Bastion over double the guide 
time it gives customers within its policy documentation to attend Mrs N. I know it makes the 
point that it needs to define the exact parameters of the recovery before arranging dispatch, 
but the policy dictated that a recovery agent was required. So, it could have looked into 
sending the recovery agent while explaining how the policy worked to Mrs N as opposed to 
delaying matters. And even when it had set the parameters of the recovery it still took well 
over the guide time to reach Mrs N. Given this, and Mrs Ns vulnerable and dangerous 
position, it is  difficult to argue that Bastion acted reasonably here. And I maintain that Mrs N 
and other consumers clearly buy roadside assistance or breakdown insurance to cover 
circumstances like this  their car breaking down at the side of the road.   
As I outlined in my provisional decision I cant be sure what happened in relation to the 
recovery of Mrs Ns vehicle. However, I have no reason to doubt that the police recovery 
managed to get charge in the battery and move the car without specialist equipment. 
Bastions recovery agent said it required skates to move the car and there is no suggestion 
that these were required. And although there may have been a change in how the 
breakdown presented I think it is clear that had Bastions agent been able to get charge in 
the battery it could have moved the car in line with the policy terms. And I think, on balance, 
that it should have done.
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case is for Bastion to pay the costs Mrs N incurred and to pay her £150 compensation. I 
say this as had Bastions agent managed to get charge in the battery it would have been 
able to move the car without the need for specialist equipment which would have been in line 
with the policy. And Im satisfied that Mrs N faced a fair degree of stress, worry and 
inconvenience here.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Bastion 
Insurance Co. Ltd to refund the £150 highway removal cost, the £120 parking charge 
(subject to reasonable evidence) and pay 8% simple interest from the date of claim until the 
date of settlement. And pay £150 compensation. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or reject my decision before 30 
August 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman