DRN-3325734
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with how Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) has handled a claim he 
made under his income protection policy.
What happened
Mr D holds an income protection insurance policy with Aviva. The purpose of this being to 
provide Mr D with a monthly benefit payment if he was unable to work, due to illness or 
injury. 
Mr D has explained that he was working as a self-employed dentist. But that he fell ill, 
experiencing anxiety and depression. Mr Ds noted that after 24 March 2020, he couldnt 
work due to this illness. And so, he made a claim under his income protection policy.
Aviva considered Mr Ds claim, but initially declined it. In summary, Aviva said that for Mr Ds 
claim to be successful he needed to show an incapacity to work within his occupation  
following the deferred (waiting) period of four weeks, contained in the policy schedule. 
Aviva didnt think Mr D had shown this was the case. It said that whilst it had received some 
information from Mr D, including some doctors notes, the information provided to it didnt 
show he met the definition of incapacity. So, Aviva said it wouldnt be able to settle the claim 
at that stage. It said it would like Mr D to be assessed by a consultant psychiatrist and only 
following this would it then review whether Mr D then met the terms of the policy.
Mr D disagreed with this. He felt that hed provided sufficient information to evidence 
incapacity. Mr D said information from his GP evidenced that. As did sick notes he got from 
the doctor from July 2020 going forward. 
Aviva also highlighted another issue to Mr D. It said that even if Mr D did evidence his 
incapacity, Mr D wouldnt be due any monthly benefit under the policy  until 1 September 
2020. 
It said this was because Mr D had been in receipt of a government grant for the period of 
March 2020 - May 2020 and was likely to be in receipt of this grant again, for June-August 
2020. Aviva said this government grant, from the self-employed income support scheme 
(SEISS), was relevant because Aviva needed to take into account other income Mr D 
received for the time he was claiming, and minus this from any benefit amount owed under 
the policy. Aviva said the grants here would be more than the monthly benefit under Mr Ds 
policy. So, taking these into account, there wouldnt be anything left of the monthly benefit 
amount to pay for the months until 1 September 2020. 
Mr D said Aviva were incorrect to take into account the SEISS grants. He said the policy 
terms didnt state that this would be considered a source of income that might reduce any 
payment due to him. And he felt it was unfair that Aviva pre-empted him getting a second 
grant in August, as this hadnt happened when Aviva initially raised it.
Aviva maintained its position  both in terms of it wanting Mr D to see a psychiatrist, and in 
terms of the SEISS grants. 
In September 2020 Mr D visited a psychiatrist of his own choosing and submitted this 
information to Aviva. Following this, it said Mr D had now provided sufficient evidence to 
show he met the definition of incapacity. Aviva agreed to pay Mr D back for the psychiatrists 
report, and to settle his claim, as per the policy terms. But it remained of the opinion there 
was nothing for it to pay Mr D in terms of the monthly benefit before 1 September 2020. 
Aviva said that it would pay the monthly benefit from 1 September 2020. It said that looking 
at Mr Ds tax return from the year 2019, and Mr Ds net earnings, he would be entitled to the 
minimum benefit amount under the policy. This being £1,500 a month. 
Aviva also agreed that Mr Ds premium would be waived, backdated to May 2020, with it 
providing 8% simple interest on the amounts it was paying retrospectively. This was because 
the policy included waiver of premium cover. Mr D is satisfied with this, and so this doesnt 
form part of this complaint. 
But Mr D didnt feel the monthly benefit of £1,500 was correct. He said Aviva should be using 
his gross income, not his net income to calculate his monthly benefit. He said this would 
increase the benefit amount he was due each month. Aviva didnt agree  and said the 
policy was clear that the benefit amount would be calculated using net income.
However, it said that on this occasion, rather than just using Mr Ds 2019 tax return, it would 
be willing to take an average of his net income over the last three tax years  to see if that 
was more favourable to him. It said it just needed to see Mr Ds 2017 tax return in order to 
review this.
In addition to the above, Aviva offered Mr D compensation of £150. It said this wasnt an 
admission that it had done anything wrong. It was satisfied it had dealt with the claim 
correctly. Rather it said this was a gesture, to recognise Mr D had been waiting for an 
answer during what was already a stressful time. 
Mr D remained in disagreement with Aviva on the matter. And so, after he raised his 
concerns and Aviva maintained its position, he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigators opinion
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ds complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They didnt 
think Aviva acted unfairly in requiring an assessment from a psychiatrist to assess whether 
Mr D met the policy terms. And, they were satisfied it was reasonable for Aviva to accept the 
claim, once this information was received.
Our investigator also thought Aviva had acted fairly in considering the SEISS grants as 
income to be deducted from the benefit amount payable to Mr D. Meaning that no benefit 
payment was due to Mr D before 1 September 2020. And the investigator felt the payment 
Aviva had made to Mr D since 1 September 2020 was in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy. 
Lastly, the investigator felt the £150 compensation Aviva had paid Mr D was reasonable.
Mr D didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman to review his complaint. So, Mr Ds complaint 
has been referred to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. I do appreciate this will come 
as a disappointment to Mr D  I can see he feels strongly about the matter. But Im satisfied 
Aviva has acted fairly in its approach. 
I also want to acknowledge that this service has received a lot of information on this case 
from the parties and I reassure them that I have read and considered all of this. However, in 
my decision below, Ive only mentioned what I considered necessary to explain my 
reasoning. 
The relevant industry guidelines say an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Mr D doesnt feel Aviva acted in line with this. So, 
Ive considered his concerns. And based on what Ive seen, I dont think Aviva did anything 
wrong in how it handled Mr Ds claim.
Avivas approach to incapacity
Ive reviewed Mr Ds policy documentation, to see what cover he purchased. On doing so, 
Im aware that Mr D purchased an income protection policy that provided cover to him from 
the policy start date, until Mr D is 65  should be meet the relevant policy terms.
One of the key policy terms here  surrounds when the main benefit of the policy falls due. 
Mr Ds policy documents explain that the main benefit under the policy is payable if:
Immediately before the incapacity Mr D was in an occupation 
The four-week deferred period had ended 
Mr D wasnt working in any other occupation after the start of the incapacity. 
Given the above, its clear that Mr D needs to have been incapacitated, for the policy cover 
to take effect. 
The policy provides a definition of the word incapacity as follows:
You cant perform, on a full or part time basis, the duties of every occupation youre 
following in the 12 months immediately before incapacity, because of illness or injury. If, 
immediately before incapacity, you werent working, incapacity means you cant perform, on 
a full or part-time basis, the duties of the last occupation you followed due to your illness or 
injury. Occupations that formed less than 10 hours of the life covereds average working 
week will be ignored for the purposes of determining incapacity.
Aviva initially said Mr D hadnt provided sufficient evidence to show that he met the definition 
of incapacity noted above. So, Ive thought about whether Aviva acted reasonably here. And 
I think it did.
When making a claim, it is the policyholders responsibility to prove their claim is something 
covered under the policy. I do appreciate that Mr D feels that notes from his GP surgery, as 
well as his testimony about what had happened, should have been enough to show he was 
incapacitated, from when he first provided these. But I dont agree. Neither party disputes that the notes initially provided from the doctors only showed 
appointments with Mr D up until April 2020, and nothing since then. Seeing as these 
appointments would have been in the four-week deferred period, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Aviva to require more evidence. It needed to see the up to date situation. 
Im aware that Aviva did contact Mr Ds GP on a number of occasions for further information, 
but the necessary evidence of incapacity wasnt forthcoming. This included a lack of any 
doctors sick notes showing Mr D was unable to work. As Aviva wasnt receiving the 
information it needed, and Mr D was explaining he was incapacitated, Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for Aviva to ask for information from a psychiatrist  an expert in the field.
Mr D has said that his policy doesnt note the need for a psychiatrists opinion. But the policy 
terms do allow for Aviva to request information such as this. And, this is typical for policies of 
this nature. Under the making a claim section of the policy, it is explained that Aviva needs 
to assess a claim before it can pay it. And it notes that information it needs may include but 
isnt limited to a number of things - such as access to medical records or proof of illness. As 
the terms says it isnt limited to just the information listed, Im satisfied Aviva can request any 
other information it needs in order to fairly assess the claim. Receiving evidence from a 
psychiatrist as to whether Mr D lacked capacity is reasonable  given that Mr D was 
experiencing problems with his mental health. So, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong in 
requesting this information, before it could progress the claim further.
Once Mr D provided further evidence from a psychiatrist, which provided commentary on 
Mr Ds condition, as well as how this was affecting him, Aviva accepted that Mr D met the 
definition of incapacity. 
Ive seen the report from the psychiatrist which highlighted that Mr D wasnt able to perform 
the duties required for his occupation as a dentist, either on a full or part-time basis. 
Im also aware that Aviva refunded Mr C for the cost of the psychiatrist visit. Which is in line 
with the policy terms noting that Aviva will pay for medical examinations or tests that Aviva 
required. So, Im satisfied Aviva did the right thing here too. 
Calculation of benefit under the policy- until 1 September 2020
Once Aviva accepted the claim, it needed to review what the benefit under the policy should 
be. As above, Aviva said there wasnt any benefit due to Mr D until 1 September 2020. Mr D 
doesnt feel this is correct. So, Ive considered whats happened here, and whether Aviva 
acted fairly.
Mr Ds policy explains, under the benefit section, that it will pay:
The full benefit, subject to the maximum yearly amount, less any continuing income from 
other sources, as calculated in the Calculation of your benefit section below.
Given this, Im aware that any continuing income will be deducted from the benefit amount 
Mr D receives. 
Mr D has said its unfair for Aviva to consider the SEISS payments he received as continuing 
income. Hes said the policy provides a set list of income sources to be deducted from any 
benefit payment. And SEISS payments dont feature in this list. So, cant be taken into 
account.Ive thought carefully about this. And Im satisfied Aviva acted fairly in saying the SEISS 
grants were continuing income that under the policy, would be deducted from the benefit 
payable.
I say this because although the calculation of benefit section of the policy does provide a list 
of other income sources that will be deducted from a benefit payment  this list is not an 
exhaustive one. Instead, this list provides examples of other income, noting that Income 
from other sources includes and then lists particular sources. With this in mind, Im 
satisfied other income, will also fairly be taken into account when arriving at the settlement of 
a claim.
Im satisfied that the SEISS grants were a continuing form of income. The SEISS payments 
were provided by the government to help support the self-employed, whose turnover was 
reduced or depleted due to the Coronavirus pandemic. It was there to replace some of the 
income the applicant would have earnt. So, I do consider this to be income. With this in 
mind, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Aviva to deduct this income from anything due to 
Mr D for the time he received the grant  which I am aware was until 1 September 2020. 
Aviva has completed its calculations on this and noted there isnt any of the monthly benefit 
left to pay Mr D after deducting this amount. And I havent seen anything that shows me this 
is incorrect. So, Im not requiring Aviva to do anything differently here. 
Calculation of benefit  from 1 September 2020
Mr D has also said when calculating his monthly benefit, from 1 September 2020 onwards, it 
should be taking into account the gross income showing on his 2019 tax return, rather than 
the net amount shown. But I dont agree. 
The calculation of benefit section of the policy does explain that the benefit is calculated 
does based on gross earnings. But the section also qualifies that this is different for the self-
employed  with the calculation being based on their net earnings. 
This is common in insurance policies of this nature. And, ensures the policyholder only 
receives payment for the actual income they would have received before being 
incapacitated. 
I can see that Aviva did review Mr Ds net income, from his 2019 tax return, and used this to 
calculate the benefit amount owed to him.
And, when Aviva noted that this calculation was under the monthly minimum benefit amount 
due under the policy, it agreed to pay the monthly minimum amount instead, which is 
£1,500. Im satisfied this is correct  given Aviva has approached this in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
Aviva has said to Mr D, that although it isnt within his policy terms, it would be willing to 
consider the monthly benefit due to him, taking into account an average of his previous three 
years of accounts. And asked Mr D to send in his 2017 tax return for it to see if this will 
provide Mr D with an uplift in the benefit amount due to him. Its my understanding Mr D 
hasnt send this to Aviva. So, if he does want Aviva to consider this, he should provide this 
information to Aviva, for it to consider. 
Other
Mr D has said that Aviva didnt provide him with the option to either receive the SEISS grant 
from the government, or the income protection benefit  if he couldnt receive both. And hes said this was detrimental to him, as he would have received more funds under the income 
protection policy.
But I should highlight that it isnt Avivas responsibility to provide Mr D with financial advice of 
this nature or provide Mr D with assistance to maximise his financial position. Instead, it was 
Avivas role to assess Mr Ds claim, based on the information provided to it at the time. And 
this is what Aviva did.
Mr D informed Aviva of his claim on 3 April 2020. Shortly after, on 9 April 2020, Aviva 
emailed Mr D and confirmed he would shortly receive at claim form. At this point, Aviva also 
highlighted to Mr D that he wouldnt be eligible for a benefit payment under the policy, if he 
did receive SEISS. So, Im satisfied this was raised with Mr D at the beginning of the claim  
and it was then for Mr D to decide how he wished to proceed.
Following that, Aviva dealt with the submissions it was provided, including the information 
that Mr D had received income from other sources  the SEISS. And it took this into account 
when handling the claim, alongside the remaining policy terms. Following the first grant 
provided to Mr D for March- May 2020, Aviva also took into account the possibility of Mr D 
receiving the next grant in August 2020, for the previous three months. This seems fair to me 
 because otherwise it would have paid Mr D, and then required him to return the funds after 
receiving the grant.
Mr D has asked this service what he needs to do, to support his claim going forward. As our 
investigator has noted, it isnt our role to handle claims, or provide advice on whats needed 
to ensure a claim is successful. So, I dont have anything further to add here. 
Lastly, Aviva has provided Mr D with £150 compensation, which it says is paid without an 
admission of wrongdoing on its part. Having considered everything provided to me, I dont 
think Aviva did act unfairly in the way it handled Mr Ds claim. However, it has provided this 
compensation is recognition of the trouble and upset Mr D felt, as I consider this to be fair, 
given that Aviva has acted as I wouldve expected it to. So, whilst I think it was reasonable 
for Mr D to be paid this £150, Im not requiring Aviva to pay any more compensation. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Aviva Life & Pensions Limited to anything more in respect of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman