DRN-3971894
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice Zurich Assurance Ltd gave to him to transfer the benefits 
from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says 
the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
At the time of the events complained about it was a different firm which gave Mr W advice. 
Zurich is now responsible for responding to the complaint. So in this decision I will refer to 
the advising firm as Zurich.
Professional representatives have helped Mr W to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Ws. 
What happened
Mr W was a deferred member of his former employers DB scheme. In 1993 he spoke with 
Zurich about his pension provision. It conducted a fact-find and gathered information from 
Mr Ws DB scheme. Zurich established that Mr W was not yet 32 years old. He was 
unemployed and had no other pension provision, savings or investments. It recorded Mr Ws 
attitude to risk was two on a scale of one to four, where one was very cautious and four 
was speculative. Zurich advised Mr W to transfer his DB funds into a named personal 
pension. Subsequently, in June 1993 Mr Ws DB scheme administrators paid Zurich the 
cash equivalent transfer value  from his DB scheme of £5,565.
I understand that Mr W took all the funds from his personal pension in 2019 and 2020.
In 2022 Mr W complained to Zurich. In brief he said its advice to transfer out of his DB 
scheme wasnt suitable for him. Zurich replied. It said it had invited Mr W to take part in an 
industry-wide review of potential mis-selling of pensions in 1999 but he hadn't replied. And, 
as a result he was now out of time to complain.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators initially looked into it noting that 
Zurich believed Mr W had brought it out of time. Mr W provided evidence, which the 
investigator passed to Zurich, which showed Mr W wasnt living at the address Zurich sent 
its pension review invitation letters to at the time. As such Mr W hadn't been in a position to 
respond to its review invitation. Zurich then consented to us looking into the complaint. 
Another of our investigators then considered the merits of Mr Ws complaint. She felt we 
should uphold it. She thought the advice to transfer wasnt in Mr Ws best interests. So, she 
said Zurich should pay Mr W appropriate compensation. As Zurich didnt reply to our 
investigators assessment, the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
At the time of the advice the regulator was the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory 
Organisation (LAUTRO). Its code of conduct said advisers should not advise customers to 
convert, cancel or allow to lapse any occupational pension, unless they genuinely believed it 
to be in the consumers best interest and clearly disclosed all relevant consequences and 
disadvantages of doing so.
Having considered the above and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons our investigator gave.
Financial viability and suitability of advice
Zurich gave its advice during the period of the industry-wide Pensions Review, so the rates 
the regulator published for Financial Viability Tests (FVT) associated with that review are 
directly relevant here. The upper limit the regulator gave for a FVT was 10.9% a year for 28 
full years to retirement. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 13%, the middle 
projection rate 10.75% and the lower projection rate 8.5%.
Ive noted that the FVT figure is broadly comparable with the regulators middle projection 
growth rate at the time. And Mr W still had 28 years until his DB schemes normal retirement 
age. So Zurich might have felt that gave a personal pension fund sufficient time to grow and 
exceed the benefits from the DB scheme. It follows that Zurich might have thought it was 
possible that Mr W could be better off by transferring his DB funds to a personal pension. 
Zurich has provided very little documentation which shows on what basis it made its 
recommendation for Mr W to transfer. It hasn't provided us with a suitability report or other 
documentation setting out an analysis of the consequences and disadvantages of investing 
in the personal pension against remaining in the DB scheme. There is an entry on one of its 
forms which says that a transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. But it doesnt provide any 
explanation as to why it thought that was. And I've seen nothing by way of a comparison of 
how the projected growth rates from the personal pension would compare against Mr Ws 
entitlement from his DB scheme. 
So its anything but clear on what basis Zurich concluded that Mr W would benefit from 
transferring out of his DB scheme. And theres simply no evidence on file to demonstrate 
whether that level of growth would have been sufficient for Mr W to have exceeded the 
income his DB scheme would have provided at retirement. It follows that I'm not persuaded 
on the balance of probabilities that Zurichs advice was suitable for Mr W. 
Further, I also need to consider Mr Ws capacity for loss. Apart from his state pension he had 
no other pension provision. And, at the time of Zurichs advice, he was unemployed and 
wasnt making further pension contributions. He had limited savings, lived in rented 
accommodation and had no other assets to protect his pension benefits if his investments 
suffered losses. 
.In addition, Zurich hasn't shown that it made it clear to Mr W what the advantages or 
disadvantages were of him transferring. And theres little evidence it made it clear that by 
transferring out of his DB scheme he would be giving up a guaranteed and index linked 
income in retirement and instead would be investing in a product that was subject to 
investment risk and the volatility of the financial markets. 
So I'm not satisfied that Zurich did all it needed to do to ensure that Mr W was aware of the 
consequences and disadvantages of transferring out of the DB scheme. It follows that I'm 
not persuaded that Zurich gave Mr W all the information he needed in order to make an 
informed choice about whether or not he wanted to transfer. 
And as I'm not persuaded that Zurich gave Mr W enough information to make a fully 
informed decision, I dont think its advice was suitable for him or in his best interests. And 
but for that advice its likely he would not have transferred out of his DB scheme. So I think 
Zurich should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined 
benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Zurich to put Mr W, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for Zurichs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if Zurich had given suitable advice.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
The FCA published a policy statement on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules 
and guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will 
come into effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr W whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. He has chosen 
not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint.
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr W.
For clarity, Mr W has depleted his pension fund but has yet to retire. His DB schemes 
normal retirement age was 60. And he could have taken his full pension at that age. So, in 
line with the FCAs guidance compensation should be based on his taking benefits at this 
age.This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Zurich may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Zurich to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, Zurich should pay the compensation if 
possible into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, 
Zurich should pay it directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to 
allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could 
have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date Zurich receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further Zurich must add interest to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Zurich to pay Mr W.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above. In those 
circumstances, any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the 
calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont 
apply.
Zurich should provide details of its calculations to Mr W and his representative in a clear, 
simple format.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Zurich Assurance Ltd 
to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £170,000, I would additionally require 
Zurich Assurance Ltd to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.Where the compensation amount already exceeds £170,000, I would only require 
Zurich Assurance Ltd to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the sum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Zurich Assurance Ltd pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Zurich Assurance Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman