DRN-3716147
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained that Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys) irresponsibly granted 
them a personal loan that they couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out an unsecured loan with Sainsburys in April 2016. The loan amount 
was £8,000.00, repayable over 60 months at a monthly cost of £181.65. Mr and Mrs M said 
the loan was repaid in January 2020 when they increased the mortgage on their home.
Mr and Mrs M complained that Sainsburys failed to conduct reasonable and proportionate 
checks before granting the loan. They thought that Sainsburys ought to refund the interest 
and charges on the loan. Sainsburys said that it had carried out appropriate checks, and 
told Mr and Mrs M that it did not uphold their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M then brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it but 
didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M didnt agree and asked for it to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website, and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks required of a lender, but it needs to 
ensure they are proportionate when considering things such as the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and the 
consumers circumstances. So Ive considered whether Sainsburys completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr and Mrs M would be able to make the 
repayments on the loan account in a sustainable way.
Mr and Mrs M said that, at the time of the application, Mr M had a number of other credit 
commitments, including credit cards that had balances very near the limit. The also said that 
the monthly payment formed a high proportion of Mr Ms income  they said his net monthly 
income was £790. However, this was a joint loan, so I have considered the information 
available for both parties  not just Mr M.
Sainsburys sent in details of the credit checks it carried out. It said that, at the time of 
application, Mr and Mrs M had stated an income of around £20,000 each. Sainsburys 
further said that it had decided the loan was affordable based on the disposable income of 
both applicants in relation to number of dependants, household composition, combined net 
monthly income and existing indebtedness. And both applicants had a history of managing 
debt with no adverse data recorded on their credit histories.
From the evidence Sainsburys sent in, I think its checks were reasonable and proportionate. 
Mr and Mrs M were both employed full-time. The credit commitments that I noted earlier 
were reflected in the checks, both in terms of the amount outstanding and the monthly 
repayments required, which Sainsburys said it took from credit reference agency records. 
Sainsburys also took account of the mortgage payments that Mr and Mrs M had stated, as 
well as an estimated figure for outgoings based on national statistical data. These checks 
showed a figure for disposable income well in excess of the repayments on the loan it was 
considering. There was nothing to suggest any difficulties with repaying the existing credit 
commitments or a potential difficulty in maintaining payments on the new loan. 
Mr and Mrs M sent in copies of their credit histories and bank statements from around the 
time they took out the loan. Having reviewed these documents, I cant see anything that 
contradicts the information that Sainsburys took from the credit checks when granting the 
loan. 
Following our investigator issuing her view that the complaint should not be upheld, Mr and 
Mrs M sent in further information. In summary, they said that had Sainsburys reviewed Mr 
Ms pattern of previous borrowing, his finances and indebtedness were deteriorating, and he 
was reshuffling finances and using cards for day to day living expenditure - he was making 
minimum repayments on all of the cards and felt trapped in a cycle of debt. Mr and Mrs M 
also said that their disposable income was supplemented by benefit payments in relation to 
their childs medical condition, but this was not expected to be a long-term arrangement, and 
that Sainsburys could have verified their commitments but instead relied on modelled data. 
They further said that in January 2020, when the loan was repaid, they increased their 
mortgage to pay off the loan, and indeed took out an additional loan on top of that. 
Additionally they referred to two other complaints that Mr M had brought to this service which 
also related to irresponsible lending, and which had been upheld. 
Although I have set out a summary of the information rather than all of the detailed points, I 
have carefully considered everything Mr and Mrs M said.
As I explained, I have reviewed the documents Mr and Mrs M sent in, as well as the 
evidence provided by Sainsburys. The income figures were shown as being as stated by Mr 
and Mrs M, but I dont have information about what level of detail would have been required 
on the online application, so I cant tell how Mr and Mrs M would have recorded the benefit 
payments they mentioned  or even if they did so. However, looking at the benefit amount 
shown on the bank statements, I dont think this would have affected the lending decision. 
Sainsburys said that the information on their credit commitments was taken from credit 
reference agency reports, and Ive no reason to doubt that. So the only modelled data was 
that for their household expenditure. I dont think this was unreasonable, given that the credit 
checks showed no problems with their existing commitments, and that the existing amount of 
unsecured credit relative to their joint income was not overly high. 
Looking at the credit reports, I can see that Mr and Mrs M have taken out various credit 
cards and loans, many of which have been settled, but a number of these show start dates 
after the Sainsburys loan was granted. I can also see that the amount Mr and Mrs M 
borrowed in 2020 was much higher than the amount required to settle the Sainsburys loan, 
so its not clear whether they may have been consolidating other debts or increasing their 
overall borrowing at that point. But I dont think that has a bearing on their 2016 loan. 
Based on the information provided by all parties about the situation in 2016, I havent seen 
anything that leads me to think that Sainsburys decision to lend was not a reasonable one. The historical information on the credit files shows no missed payments on any of the credit 
commitments, although I accept theres no information on the amounts paid (I also note that 
no payments were missed on the Sainsburys loan). 
Ive also kept in mind that a number of Mr and Mrs Ms comments refer to Mr Ms 
commitments. Ive thought carefully about those. I can see that Mr M had a number of credit 
cards, and he sent in information about the balances at the time of the application. I accept 
that some of these were close to their limit, although on the other hand the credit limits on 
the cards were not especially high. As I noted above, the total balances were reflected in the 
credit checks that Sainsburys carried out, so theres nothing to suggest that that borrowing 
wasnt considered, along with the repayments that wouldve been required. And this was a 
joint loan, so the lending decision was based on Mr and Mrs Ms overall situation, not just 
that of Mr M. Taking into account their joint circumstances, I can see no evidence that they 
wouldve been unable to make the loan repayments in a sustainable way  as I noted above, 
Sainsburys credit checks showed a figure for disposable income well in excess of the 
repayments on the loan. 
Finally, I note Mr and Mrs Ms comments about other complaints being upheld. Whether a 
complaint is upheld or not depends on the individual circumstances, so I cannot draw 
conclusions from those complaints in determining this one. So I cant comment further on 
those complaints, other than to note that they appear to involve lending decisions taken after 
this loan was granted, so dont reflect Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances in April 2016. 
Talking all this into account, I dont think Sainsburys acted unfairly when approving the 
finance application in 2016, so I dont think Mr and Mrs M have lost out.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman