DRN-2930350
The complaint
Mr B complains about a decision by MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo) to report 
adverse information to his credit file in relation to a finance agreement he had with them. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
MotoNovo have an obligation to report Mr Bs account performance accurately to the credit 
reference agencies: they reported two missed payments to Mr Bs credit file.
Mr B missed a payment in January 2021 as he cancelled his direct debit. The payment was 
due on Friday, but Mr B paid a few days later on the Monday. MotoNovo were therefore right 
to report that missed payment to his credit file.
MotoNovos system log explains that on 1 February 2021 Mr B called them and the direct 
debit was reinstated. At that point I think Mr B had done all that could be expected of him to 
ensure a facility was in place to collect the next payment on time.
MotoNovo explained in their final response letter that the February 2021 payment was 
missed because your direct debit instruction had been supressed by ourselves. That wasnt 
Mr Bs mistake; it was MotoNovos and I think it was unreasonable to report a missed 
payment in February 2021 as it wasnt reflective of Mr Bs management of his account.
MotoNovo paid Mr B £25 compensation for that mistake. But Mr B has experienced further 
inconvenience as I think they were wrong to report that further missed payment and should 
have resolved this matter earlier without Mr B needing to escalate the issue to this service. 
Putting things right
In the circumstances I would agree with our investigator that MotoNovo should pay Mr B a 
further £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience experienced and they should 
remove the late payment marker they reported to Mr Bs credit file for February 2021.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
pay Mr B £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced and for reporting the missed payment wrongly. MotoNovo can deduct 
any part of that compensation they may have already paid;
remove the late payment marker they reported to the credit reference agencies for 
February 2021.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman