DRN-3793661
The complaint
Mr K complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) didnt do enough to protect him when he fell 
victim to a scam and hasnt refunded the money he lost.
What happened
On 14 March 2022 Mr K contacted Revolut through its chat function. He said his account 
had been hacked. Mr K went on to explain that he had received a call from someone 
pretending to be his bank who told him his account had been compromised, so he needed to 
transfer funds. He was asked if he had another account and said he had one with Revolut. 
To protect his funds Mr K says he was asked to transfer funds to an account at Revolut in 
his name but with a new account number. Sadly, this was a scam and Mr K has lost his 
money. He would like Revolut to refund £2,830. 
Revolut say that Mr K transferred funds from an external bank account into his own account 
with Revolut. From there, Mr K transferred funds to a third-party account, also at Revolut. 
When Mr K made the first transfer from his Revolut account he was provided with a scam 
warning but chose to proceed with the payment. Revolut has confirmed that it contacted the 
bank that eventually received Mr Ks funds but was unable to recover anything. 
As Mr K was unhappy with Revoluts response he brought a complaint to this service.   
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Ks complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. In 
summary, she said that that there was nothing to indicate a fraud risk to Revolut so Revolut 
couldnt reasonably have prevented Mr Ks loss. And, Revolut had done what it could to 
recover Mr Ks funds.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said:
- The amounts he transferred werent small or in line with his previous account history 
(and so Revolut should have done more to protect him). 
- He moved funds from his bank account to what he thought was an account in his 
name at Revolut, but this wasnt the case. So Revolut should have provided him with 
a warning that the name on the account didnt match.
The complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr K was the victim of a cruel scam and of the impact the scam has had on 
him. I can understand why he wants to do all he can to recover the money he lost. But I can 
only direct Revolut to refund Mr Ks losses if it can fairly and reasonably be held responsible 
for them.
The evidence I have seen shows that Mr K transferred funds from his account with a 
different bank to his own Revolut account and from that account to a third-party account. Im 
satisfied Mr K authorised the scam payments from his existing Revolut account. Although he 
didnt intend the money to go to the scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations and 
the terms and conditions of his account, Mr K is presumed to be liable for his loss in the first 
instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account Mr K held with Revolut, where a 
valid payment instruction has been received, Revoluts obligation is to follow the instructions 
that Mr K provides. 
But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for 
Revolut as an electronic money institute (EMI) to take additional steps or make additional 
checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility 
of financial harm from fraud. For example, if a customer made a payment request for an 
amount that was out of character given the normal use of an account, Id expect Revolut to 
intervene and ask questions about the intended transaction before processing it and provide 
a suitable warning.
In this case, I dont consider Revolut acted unfairly or unreasonably in allowing the payments 
to be made. Whilst I understand the overall amount Mr K sent through Revolut was a lot to 
him, I dont consider the four payments of £900, £850, £800 and £280 were significant 
enough that Revolut should have had concerns that Mr K may be the victim of fraud. Theres 
a balance to be struck; banks and EMIs (like Revolut) have obligations to be alert to fraud 
and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every 
transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. 
The evidence Revolut has provided shows that Mr K was provided with a warning which 
showed that the name entered when funds were transferred from Mr Ks Revolut account 
wasnt the same as the name on the account he was paying. Mr K was then presented with 
another screen that asked whether he knew and trusted the payee and was advised not to 
pay if he was unsure as it might not be possible to get his money back. Im persuaded 
Revolut did enough in providing these warnings. 
Im also satisfied that Revolut has done what it could to recover the funds Mr K lost.
Overall, whilst Im very sorry to hear of Mr Ks loss, I cant reasonably hold Revolut 
responsible. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman