DRN-1225577
 
The complaint
Mrs R says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold her two regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies in 1996 when she took out two credit cards. 
What happened
This complaint is about two credit card PPI policies taken out in March 1996. The policies 
were added to Mrs Rs credit card accounts when she applied for the cards by post. The 
policies cost no more than 70p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following a 
successful claim, both would repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim, for 
up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold because:
 
I think Barclays made Mrs R aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it  although I can understand why she can no longer remember this. I say this 
because Ive seen a copy of the application form, and can see that she selected PPI 
before signing the application form in March 1996. And as the PPI wouldve 
appeared on her monthly credit card statements, then had the PPI been added to her 
accounts without either her knowledge or her consent, I would have expected her to 
query or challenge this in the first few months after the accounts were opened in April 
1996.
 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R, so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough information about the policies so 
she could decide for herself if she wanted it.
 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mrs R chose to take out the policies and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. she was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
which might have made it unattractive to her, such as being self-employed or having 
a pre-existing medical condition  she told us she was employed and in good health. And it seems like it wouldve been useful for her if she wasnt working because of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment  this policy wouldve paid out in addition to any 
employee sick pay.
 
The policy was also competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs 
R would have made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, 
I think she would still have taken out the policies.
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Rs comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman