DRN-4302627
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the handling of a claim under his horse insurance policy with The
Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited (ELICO).
What happened
Mr M took out the horse insurance policy with ELICO on 11 August 2022 for a horse he said 
he had recently acquired.
On 31 August 2022, Mr M contacted ELICO to make a claim, as he said the horse had 
become reluctant to be ridden. The vets notes record that the horse had bilateral lameness 
and back pain. The vet carried out some X-rays and tests in October 2022. ELICO paid the 
cost of those tests. The vet said that some treatment was needed to the horses back and 
leg. Mr M says he was told by ELICO that the cost of the treatment would be covered and so 
went ahead with this in November 2022. However, ELICO did not pay the fees for the further 
treatment when the invoice was sent to them.
Mr M brought the complaint to us at the end January 2023. He complained about the delay 
in settling the claim and said whenever he contacted ELICO to chase up the claim, he was 
told the claim was with senior staff for assessment. Mr M is very unhappy with the delay, as 
he is having to pay the vet in instalments and he was threatened with debt collectors.
ELICO said it was making further investigations as it was concerned that Mr M had 
misrepresented the risk when he took out the policy with it and that this was a potentially 
fraudulent claim. It told Mr M of its concerns in a message in February 2023.
One of our Investigators looked into the matter and said ELICO should pay £150 
compensation for the delay in dealing with the claim and that it should give him a decision on 
the claim without further delay.
ELICO was very unhappy with the Investigators recommendation that it pay Mr M 
compensation, which it says is rewarding his fraud.
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it was referred to me. In the 
meantime, ELICO formally rejected the claim on the basis of fraud. It said Mr Ms partner 
had previously insured the same horse with a policy issued in January 2022 by one of 
ELICOs trading names and had made a previous claim for the same issue. The claim had 
not progressed and then in August 2022, Mr M took out this policy saying he had only 
recently acquired the same horse and denying it had any previous issues or vet involvement.
I issued a provisional decision on the matter in July 2023. I set out in that provisional 
decision that I am only able to consider the complaint about the time taken by ELICO and its 
handling of the claim, not its refusal of the claim for fraud.
In my provisional decision, I said:
ELICO paid the cost of the initial diagnostic tests. However, it then asked for some 
further information and found cause to believe the same horse had been insured 
under a policy issued in one of its trading names and a claim already made for 
problems with the horses legs. ELICO then spent some time obtaining further 
information about the previous policy and claim.
The information and discrepancies ELICO has referred to gave it genuine cause to 
query the validity of the claim. As stated I am not able to make any finding on 
whether the claim was fraudulent or not, in the context of this decision as no 
complaint about that has been raised, but from the evidence provided the enquiries 
and concerns ELICO had were, in my opinion, genuine ones. I think they were 
reasonable enquiries for ELICO to make and can understand why they might have 
taken some time. 
Fraud is a serious allegation and we would expect insurers to have made all 
reasonable investigations and considered the matter properly before making any 
such accusation.
Given the circumstances of this case, I do not consider that the time taken was 
undue or excessive. And I note that ELICO was open about its position and informed 
Mr M in February 2023 that it had concerns about fraud and why it was looking into 
the matter further.
I can appreciate that Mr M may have been frustrated with the claim not being met 
and I can see he chased for payment to be made a number of times. However, there 
is no automatic right to compensation just because a claim has taken longer than 
might usually be the case.
In some cases delays in meeting a claim might warrant compensation. But it is only
appropriate if a business has done something wrong and as I think ELICOs enquiries 
and the time taken were justified, given the genuine cause for concern about the 
validity of this claim, I do not consider that I can reasonably require it to pay any 
compensation to Mr M for the time taken to obtain this information and make its final 
decision on the claim.
Therefore, I do not agree that any compensation is warranted.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further arguments or 
information they want considered. Neither party has responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further information has been provided, I see no reason to change my provisional 
findings. I remain of the opinion that ELICO was entitled to make the enquiries it did and the 
time taken in dealing with the claim was justified. I therefore do not consider that any 
compensation is warranted. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman