DRN-4311958
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their claim against their 
travel insurance policy. They also complain that Great Lakes mis-sold the policy to them. 
Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in May 2022, Mr and Mrs G booked a trip with intended 
departure and return dates of 5 November 2022 and 19 November 2022 respectively. In 
August 2022, Mr and Mrs G bought a single trip travel insurance policy underwritten by             
Great Lakes. 
Mr and Mrs G say that they first spoke with visa agents in September 2022. In early 
October 2022, Mr and Mrs Gs visa agents told them that the high commission of their 
intended destination country no longer accepted visa applications from third parties.     
Mr and Mrs G had to make a visa application in person. Unfortunately, the high 
commission didnt have appointments until December 2023, which was obviously too 
late for their trip. 
Mr and Mrs G cancelled their trip. Part of the trip costs were refunded by the trip 
provider. Mr and Mrs G made a claim against their policy for the balance of their costs. 
Great Lakes declined their claim. It said that what happened here isnt covered by the 
policy. Great Lakes relied on an exclusion in the policy. 
Mr and Mrs G pursued their complaint. They say that full policy terms werent available 
to them before they bought the policy and that if theyd known that what happened here 
was excluded from cover they wouldnt have bought the policy. Mr and Mrs G also 
complain about Great Lakes decision to decline their claim. They want Great Lakes to 
settle their claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that Great Lakes hadnt 
mis-sold the policy to Mr and Mrs G. The investigator said that Great Lakes didnt give 
Mr and Mrs G advice about the policy, but it did give them information to enable them to 
decide whether the policy met their needs. The investigator thought that the information 
Great Lakes gave to Mr and Mrs G was clear, fair and not misleading. 
The investigator said that theres an exclusion in the policy in relation to claims resulting 
from an inability to travel due to a failure to obtain any required visa. But the investigator 
didnt think it was fair for Great Lakes to rely on it in this case. That was because                 
Mr and Mrs G had taken reasonable steps to obtain visas in time and the circumstances 
which led to the claim were outside their control. The investigator thought that it would be 
fair for Great Lakes to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs G accepted the investigators view but Great Lakes didnt. It said that it was 
entitled to rely on the exclusion in the policy. Great Lakes said that travellers should 
apply for a visa before booking a trip. It said it cant be held responsible for changes to 
visa rules or any delay by the agent instructed by Mr and Mrs G to obtain their visas. 
Great Lakes asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me 
to decide. 
My provisional decision
On 10 July 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I 
indicated that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. I said:
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which 
say as follows:
Section 1 Cancellation
Cancellation applies for booked trips taking place within the period of cover that you 
are forced to cancel because of one of the following, which are beyond your control, and 
of which you were unaware at the time you booked your trip or purchased the cover 
(whichever is later).
What is covered:
We will pay you up to the amount shown on the table of benefits per insured person for 
your non-refundable deposits and amounts you have paid (or you are contracted to 
pay), for your travel and accommodation (including pre-paid excursions up to £250), 
which you do not use because of the following:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person that you have arranged 
to stay with during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of 
your outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay.
c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or being 
summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or advisory 
capacity).
d) you or a travelling companion being made redundant, provided you qualify for a 
redundancy payment under current legislation applicable within your home country.
e) the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office issue a directive advising 
against all, or all but essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, 
fire, flood, or hurricane.
f) your home being made uninhabitable or place of business being made unusable, up 
to 14 days before the commencement of your trip due to fire, lightening, explosion, 
earthquake, subsidence, storm, flood, falling trees, riot or civil unrest, malicious damage, 
burst pipes, impact by aircraft, the Police requesting your presence following a burglary 
or attempted burglary.
g) you or a travelling companion discovering that you/they are pregnant after the date 
of issue of this policy or the date the trip was booked (whichever was later), if the 
booked return date is within 8 weeks (16 weeks for a multiple birth) of the expected date 
of delivery, or complications of pregnancy.h) yours or your travelling companions passport being stolen during the seven days 
before your departure date.
i) you are a member of the armed forces, Police, Fire, Nursing or Ambulance Services and 
you have to stay in your country of residence because of an emergency or you are posted 
overseas unexpectedly.
What is not covered: under Sections 1 and 2
[]
16. any claim resulting from your inability to travel or continue travelling due to an insured 
persons failure to hold, obtain or produce a valid passport or any required visa in time for 
the booked trip.
[]
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I dont intend to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain why:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy 
the onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Ive set out above the cancellation section of the policy. The policy provides cover for 
certain non-refundable costs if the insured is unable to travel for one of a number of 
specific, listed reasons. Inability to travel because an insured hasnt been able to get 
a visa they need isnt one of the specific, listed events which Great Lakes covers. So, 
what happened here isnt an insured event. 
The cancellation section of the policy also sets out a specific list of events which 
Great Lakes doesnt cover. Ive also set that out above. Great Lakes doesnt cover 
any claim resulting from an insureds inability to travel because they dont have a 
required visa in time for the booked trip. So, not only is Mr and Mrs Gs claim not 
covered by the cancellation section of the policy but their situation is also specifically 
excluded by the terms of their contract with Great Lakes.
I think that Great Lakes was entitled to rely on the policy terms in declining               
Mr and Mrs Gs claim and I dont think that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in doing 
so. In the particular circumstances here, there are no grounds on which I could fairly 
direct Great Lakes to cover an event it has decided not to cover. It doesnt alter the 
outcome here that the visa difficulties were outside Mr and Mrs Gs control. The fact 
remains that what happened here isnt an insured event, so Great Lakes hasnt 
agreed to take on the risk of insuring losses arising out of difficulties with visa 
applications.   
Great Lakes didnt advise Mr and Mrs G to take out the policy. That means that it 
didnt need to check that the policy was suitable for them or met their needs. But 
Great Lakes is obliged to provide information thats clear, fair and not misleading. Mr and Mrs G say that the policy was mis-sold to them as only a two page 
summary  - not the full policy documents  was available to them at the point of 
sale. They say that if theyd known about the exclusion they wouldnt have bought 
the policy. Great Lakes disagrees with Mr and Mrs G about what was available at 
the point of sale. It says that links to the policy documents were available before 
purchase. Where the evidence is contradictory, as it is here, I have to decide what I 
consider is most likely to have happened, in light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances. 
Great Lakes has provided screenshots of the customer on-line journey. In the right 
hand margin of the on-line application form, under the heading Useful Links there 
are links to the policy terms and conditions. The link is repeated on several pages 
of the application form. Mr and Mrs G refer to the content of non cruise policy 
documents. I believe what Mr and Mrs G refer to is the link to the Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID), which is a summary of some of the terms 
and is separate from the link to the policy terms and conditions. On balance, Im 
satisfied that Great Lakes provided Mr and Mrs G with sufficient information to 
enable them to make an informed choice about the policy. 
Even if I came to a different conclusion about the information available to              
Mr and Mrs G at the point of sale, I dont think it would alter the outcome of the 
complaint. Thats because Im not aware of any travel policy that would cover a 
cancellation claim in the circumstances that arose here. So, I dont think it was 
open to Mr and Mrs G to obtain cover from another insurer for what happened 
here.       
Responses to my provisional decision
Great Lakes didnt provide a substantive response. Mr and Mrs G responded to say, in 
summary:
They have travelled to their intended destination on four previous occasions and its 
never been possible to purchase an online tourist visa more than a month before 
travel. Thats why they left it so late to apply. They discovered that online visas had 
been suspended for UK nationals and thats why they had no alternative other than to 
apply via a third party agent at considerable cost.
They now acknowledge that theres a link to the policy documents during the on-line 
purchase process. The majority of people wouldnt be looking for that link which is 
why its in very small lettering.
The document which sets out the main exclusions in the policy doesnt refer to the 
fact that the inability to obtain a visa through no fault of your own isnt covered. 
Great Lakes refers to the link at the bottom of the home page as being the full policy 
wording. 
Insurers bury the small print as they know that the majority of the public will not seek 
it out, particularly when theyve already read the exclusions. 
Great Lakes hasnt acted in accordance with the spirit of regulatory guidelines.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at the information Great Lakes made available to Mr and Mrs G. Im 
satisfied that Great Lakes provided Mr and Mrs G with sufficient information to enable them 
to make an informed choice about the policy. There are links to the policy terms and 
conditions on several pages of the application. I dont agree that its less prominent than 
other information. The Insurance Product Information Document is a summary of the main 
cover and exclusions, so it doesnt show every exclusion. 
As I said in my provisional decision, even if I came to a different conclusion about the 
information Great Lakes made available to Mr and Mrs G, I dont think it would alter the 
outcome. Thats because, Im not aware of any travel policy that would cover a cancellation 
claim in the circumstances that arose here. 
I remain of the view that Mr and Mrs Gs policy doesnt cover what happened here. So, I 
dont think that Great Lakes acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman