DRN-1600511
The complaint
Mrs S is complaining about the way Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has 
handled a claim she made on her car insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mrs S was involved in an accident where she had to swerve to avoid a 
deer, but in doing so her car hit a barrier. She contacted LV to claim for the damage to her 
car on her car insurance policy. LV asked her where she would like to have the car repaired 
and she said she wanted to use the garage she generally uses  who I shall call D. 
LV initially booked the repair in with D, but a few days later it contacted Mrs S to say she 
couldnt use D and it wanted to use a different garage. Mrs S emailed LV to complain. LV 
reviewed the matter again and called her again to ask which garage she wanted to use and 
she reiterated she wanted to use D. LV then agreed to this.
Mrs S later called LV to complain her premium had increased by around £250 which she 
thought was unfair given she wasnt at fault for the accident. She was also unhappy with the 
way LV had handled the repair process which she said had caused her a lot of distress and 
inconvenience. In particular she thought the call handler was rude and abrupt on the second 
call when he agreed again that her car could go to D.
LV acknowledged it should have initially explained why it didnt want to send the car to D. It 
also thought the call handler should have apologised for any confusion caused. So it offered 
Mrs S £100 in compensation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She acknowledged LV had caused some 
distress and inconvenience with the way it had handled the repair process. But she thought 
£100 was fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused. She also said 
shed seen LVs pricing matrix to show how it had calculated the renewal premium and she 
was satisfied it had treated Mrs S fairly in this matter. She acknowledged Mrs S didnt think 
she was at fault for the accident, but she said insurers treat the claim as a fault claim where 
it pays out on a claim and cant recover its outlay from another party. So she didnt think LV 
had acted unfairly.
Mrs S didnt accept the investigators opinion. She didnt think the investigator had grasped 
the extent of the distress LV had caused  in particularly taking into account how rude the 
call handler was. She also said the accident had been very distressing and could have had a 
serious result had she hit the deer. So she still thought the premium increase was unfair. 
As Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide,
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why. 
I acknowledge Mrs S is unhappy with the way LV handled the repair process. It initially said 
she could take the car to D, then said she couldnt do so, but ultimately allowed her to take 
the car there. And I can fully appreciate this must have been very confusing for her about 
what was happening.
I should state that its ultimately at LVs discretion for which garage it chooses to repair a car. 
I understand LV considers D a prestige garage  i.e. its repair costs are generally higher 
than other garages. So LV generally only allows newer cars to be repaired at D  cars under 
five years old. Its not unreasonable that it says this because its entitled to be mindful of the 
repair cost and it can choose to use a different garage if that garage can repair the car at a 
cheaper cost. And, as I said, it was ultimately for LV to decide where the car is repaired.
However, LV accepts it should have been clearer to Mrs S about why it had changed its 
stance. It also accepts the call handler should have been more empathic to her and 
apologised for the confusion LV had caused. I do not dispute this matter was distressing to 
Mrs S. But Im conscious LV quickly corrected the confusion. Its also offered her £100 in 
compensation which is in line with what I would have awarded. So I dont think it needs to 
pay anything further in this respect.
Ive also thought about Mrs Ss unhappiness with how much her premium had increased, 
even though she doesnt think she was at fault for the accident. I should set out that insurers, 
when assessing risk, take into account what claims have been settled under an insurance 
policy. Its not a matter of who was at fault for an incident but whether it had paid out on a 
claim. While, Mrs S was forced to take evasive action to avoid a deer, she has made a claim 
on her insurance policy. There wasnt a third party for LV to recover its outlay from. So the 
claim was correctly recorded on her record.
LV has provided me with confidential, business sensitive information to explain how it 
calculated the premiums it charged at renewal. Im afraid I cant share that information with 
Mrs S, but Ive considered it carefully. Having done so, Im satisfied LV charged a premium 
in line with what it would have charged other customers in a similar position  i.e. with similar 
risk profiles.
When calculating premiums, insurers take into account a large number of factors. At the 
renewal of each insurance policy, LV carries out a new risk assessment. And its not unusual 
for a premium to increase over time. As I said above, its not down to me to tell LV what 
factors it should take into account when assessing risk, nor how to go about its assessment. 
Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk and the extent of that risk. 
Ultimately, the annual premium LV charges is essentially a matter of commercial judgement 
and isnt something with which we would usually think its fair to interfere with. 
I can fully appreciate why Mrs S was unhappy to learn her annual premium had increased by 
around £250. But, LV has shown the premium its charged is in line with what it would have 
charged other customers with a similar risk profile. 
So, while I acknowledge Mrs S was unhappy with the premium increase, I cant say LV 
treated her unfairly. I also understand it said it would waive the cancellation fee if Mrs S 
wanted to cancel the insurance policy. And I think this was more than fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman