DRN-4044790
The complaint
Mr B, who is represented by a third party, complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay), trading 
as Aqua, irresponsibly granted him a credit card account he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr B entered into an agreement with NewDay to have access to credit by way of a an Aqua 
credit card account. The account was opened in October 2018 with a credit limit of £900. 
This was increased to £1,650 in January 2019 and then five more times as follows: to £2,400 
in May 2019, to £3,900 in August 2020, to £4,900 in February 2021, to £6,650 in May 2021 
and finally to £8,000 in September 2021. 
Mr B says that NewDay didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened his 
account. He says if it had, it would have seen that the card wasnt affordable for him. He also 
says it led to him getting into further debt. 
NewDay said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to check Mr Bs 
financial circumstances before granting him the card account and each of the credit limit 
increases.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought NewDay didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the account opening and each of the credit limit 
increases. 
Mr B didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about 
our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Before opening the account I think NewDay gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Mr B about his ability to repay. I say this because it asked for details about 
his income and job and other information relating to his financial situation, including details 
about money he owed elsewhere. NewDay also completed a credit check which showed no 
adverse information, such as defaulting on credit or having a county court judgment against 
him. However, just because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt 
automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence 
and information showed. 
Ive reviewed the information and evidence NewDay gathered. Having done so Im satisfied 
that the checks that were completed showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable 
to Mr B. I say this because Mr B was at the time earning £32,000 a year, which would mean 
a monthly net income of around £1,800. He owed just over £20,000 in other unsecured 
credit. As he was serving in the armed forces his housing costs and council tax were 
deducted beforehand. From what Ive seen, I think its likely that Mr B was in a reasonably  
stable position financially at the time. So I dont think NewDay acted unfairly when approving 
the finance application. And given that Mr Bs circumstances do not appear to have changed 
substantially by the time he was granted his first credit limit increase in January 2019, and 
his unsecured debt was now lower at around £15,000, I dont think NewDay acted unfairly in 
approving this either. 
Turning to the later credit limit increases, I think NewDay gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mr B about his ability to repay. I will explain why. 
Looking at the credit increase in May 2019, up to £2,400, I can see from the credit agency 
information NewDay was holding that Mr Bs unsecured debt was now around £15,000. 
Whilst lower than at the point of opening, the bank statements Mr B has given us show that 
he was having to find money to meet daily living costs of around £725 with his monthly credit 
commitments costing him a further £530. On that basis, and given that Mr B had reached his 
credit limit, I think it would have been proportionate for NewDay to find out more about 
Mr Bs financial circumstances before increasing the limit further.  
Going forwards to the next four credit limit increases, I agree with our adjudicator that on 
each occasion it would have been proportionate for NewDay to have found out more about 
Mr Bs financial circumstances, but I cant see that happened. Ive seen that Mr B was able 
to manage his NewDay account reasonably well, without resorting to making cash 
withdrawals on the card and without incurring any late fees. His monthly payments tended to 
be at or slightly over the minimum required. Ive noticed that he made a large payment of 
around £2,600 in December 2020, was regularly paying above the minimum payment 
required in much of 2021 and cleared his outstanding balance in November that year, after 
his credit limit had been increased to £8,000. 
Mr B was making regular use of his card and whilst the amount of credit he owed elsewhere 
fluctuated, by the time he received his fifth credit limit increase, up to £6,650 in May 2021, 
Mr B owed around £17,500 in other credit. But he then went on to steadily use up most of 
the available credit again in 2022. 
Ive also looked at what NewDay would likely have found if it had carried out better and more 
proportionate checks. The bank statements Mr B has provided have been helpful for this. 
Although his net monthly income had gone up to £2,000-2,100 his living expenses were also 
sometimes more, ranging between £600 and £1,000 each month. His total credit 
commitments each month were around £600. So it looks as if the card remained affordable 
to him, leaving him with at least £400 in disposable income each month.
In summary, the evidence and information Ive seen overall demonstrates that Mr B  had 
enough disposable income each month to make regular, sustainable repayments towards 
his NewDay credit card. Had it completed proportionate checks, I therefore think its likely 
NewDay would have discovered all this too. So it didnt act unfairly by increasing Mr Bs 
credit limit on each occasion. It follows that, whilst I cant say that everything NewDay did was necessarily appropriate at 
all times, I dont think NewDays actions in opening the account and for each of the six credit 
limit increases was enough to cause Mr B to lose out.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman