DRN-3357319
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined her claim for damage to 
her property, which she believes should be covered under her home insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes it agents. 
What happened
Mrs M has a home buildings and contents insurance policy with Admiral. In July 2021 she 
called Admiral to say the gable wall between her property and her neighbour was damaged. 
Her neighbour was having a new roof put on their property and the builders had noticed that 
the gable wall wasnt secure. Mrs M said shed first made Admiral aware of the incident in 
November 2020 and thought it might have been damaged by a storm.
Admiral surveyed the property but declined the claim saying there was no insurable peril. It 
noted that the wall above the front bay window had come away from the party wall and the 
whole wall had dropped. It said this wasnt consistent with storm damage and there were no 
storm conditions on or prior to the date of loss. Mrs M wasnt satisfied with this answer so 
brought her complaint to this service. She included a report by a third-party surveyor who 
said the problem seemed to have been caused when the original windows had been 
replaced with uPVC double glazing about 20-25 years previously. The windows hadnt been 
fit for purpose and theyd caused a failure in the roof and brickwork above the bay window. 
Our investigator thought Admiral had acted fairly in declining the claim as there were no 
storm conditions and the third-party report indicated the damage was caused by the change 
in window frames. He recognised that the windows were changed before Mrs M bought the 
property but he said he wouldnt expect Admiral to cover damage caused by wear and tear 
that occurred over an extended period of time. 
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Let me explain why.
Mrs M initially thought the damage to her home might have been caused by a storm. I 
recognise she no longer thinks thats the case but, for completeness, Ive considered 
whether Admiral responded fairly to this issue. 
When we look at storm damage cases, we ask three main questions:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If the answer to all of these questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of above questions is no the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered. I can see that Admiral checked the weather in the area where Mrs M lives at the 
time she said her house was damaged but didnt think its storm criteria had been met. 
Mrs M's policy defines a storm as being winds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55mph), heavy 
rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour, snow to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 hours, or 
hail that causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. 
Ive seen the evidence Admiral looked at when considering whether thered been a storm at 
the time. I too have checked the conditions in the area around Mrs Ms house during the 
weeks in question. And Im satisfied there were no storm conditions on or around the date 
the damage was said to have happened. The recorded wind speeds and rainfall were much 
lower than Id expect to see if there had been a storm. As Ive answered no to question 1, 
theres no need for me to go on to consider questions 2 and 3. So, I think Admiral acted fairly 
in declining Mrs Ms claim for storm damage.
Ive also considered whether the damage caused to Mrs Ms property could be covered by 
any other parts of her home insurance policy. But I dont think it could. From the evidence 
Ive seen, including the surveyors reports from Admiral and the third-party, it seems the 
damage to Mrs Ms property was caused by the poor installation of uPVC windows that 
caused structural problems to the brickwork and roof above the bay window. Mrs Ms policy 
covers her for damage caused by a range of different issues, or insurable perils, including 
storms. But it doesnt appear the damage to Mrs Ms property was caused by any of the 
insurable perils listed in her policy document. 
Mrs Ms policy also outlines some of the exceptions to her home insurance cover. One of the 
exceptions is faulty design, which is any loss or damage caused by faulty materials or poor 
workmanship. I note the third-party report suggests that the windows werent fit for purpose 
and were installed poorly. Another exception is existing damage, which is any damage 
resulting from an event which happened before the policy started. In this case, it would seem 
the cause of the damage to Mrs Ms property was the installation of the windows. And the 
windows were installed about 20 to 25 years ago, which was several years before Mrs M 
bought the property and took out her policy with Admiral.
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mrs M has experienced at her property. But, for the 
reasons Ive given, I think it was reasonable for Admiral to decline her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman