DRN-4084356
The complaint
Mrs L complains, via her representative, that her late husband took out annuities via Walker 
Vallance And Company (Walker Vallance) which included no spouses or widows pension 
so the income stopped when Mr L sadly passed away. Mrs L has been left without the 
income and would now like it to be paid. 
What happened
Mr L had five private pensions from which he wanted to take benefits in 2003.The total value 
of the pensions was around £100,000. Walker Vallance helped him to arrange the annuities.
One policy with Norwich Union (now Aviva) had a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR) that was 
more generous than what was available on the open market. The quote on file shows an 
income of £1,850 a year was available from a fund of £16,654, which was 11%. This income 
would be payable for Mr Ls lifetime, or five years, whichever was longer. There was no 
option to add a spouses or widows pension and still benefit from the GAR. 
Mr L combined the other four pensions (from three different providers) to buy an annuity with 
Friends Provident (also now Aviva). He took 25% as tax free cash with the rest buying a 
level annuity on Mr Ls life only with a 10 year guarantee period. So the annuity would be 
paid as a guaranteed amount for his life, or ten years, whichever was longer. 
Walker Vallance ceased trading shortly after arranging Mr Ls annuities. The clients were 
transferred to another firm, where the Walker Vallance adviser worked until 2012 when he 
retired.
In August 2021 Mr L initiated a complaint with Aviva, which was now the provider of both 
annuities. There were four main parts to the complaint: the annuity was not right for his 
circumstances; he was not warned that the amount was not guaranteed; it had not been 
considered that he had a financially dependent spouse; and no explanation had been given 
about the right to shop around. Since these issues related to the advice to set up the 
annuities, which was not Avivas responsibility, they referred Mr L to Walker Vallance. 
Sadly Mr L passed away before the complaint was resolved. Now Mrs L has brought the 
complaint to this service via her representative. She says that she should have been 
included as a beneficiary. Walker Vallance no longer have the files from the time of the 
advice but have provided a response, rejecting the complaint. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. Since Mrs L did not accept that outcome, the 
case was referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events which are the subject of the complaint happened in 2003, which could potentially 
mean the complaint was time barred. And Walker Vallance have asked us to decide whether 
the complaint should be time barred. Walker Vallance say that Mrs L was present at the first 
meeting. But I dont think she would have known that she potentially had cause for complaint 
until at least when her husband made the complaint. Since the complaint was brought within 
three years of this, I find that this is a complaint I can consider. 
As a result of the time that has elapsed, one of the outstanding characteristics of this case is 
the lack of hard evidence from both parties. We have application forms and other 
correspondence from when the annuities were set up. Walker Vallance have destroyed their 
records, which they were perfectly entitled to do, and it appears that Mrs L no longer has 
copies either. Both sides have provided us with statements setting out their respective cases 
although clearly these date from long after the events in question. 
I have therefore made my decision on the balance of probability and based on the evidence 
that I have available.
Of the four main elements of the complaint, one is relatively straightforward as there is hard 
evidence to support a conclusion.
Mrs L says that Mr L was not told of his ability to shop around, the open market option.
But the open market option was exercised for the four non-GAR policies to buy an annuity 
with Friends Provident. If it had not been, then Mr L would not have had the Friends 
Provident (now Aviva) annuity, but separate annuities from the existing providers. And 
Walker Vallances details are clearly shown on the Friends Provident application form so we 
know this was done with their involvement. 
A letter from Norwich Union on 15 January 2003 has a section headed What is the open 
market option? An illustration dated the same day and sent along with his letter was signed 
by Mr L and Walker Vallance, so I think it is highly likely that he saw the letter. 
So I find that Walker Vallance did make Mr L aware of the open market option in relation to 
these policies. I am therefore unable to agree that Mr L was not made aware of the ability to 
shop around.
Mrs L also says that they were not warned that the amount of the pension was not 
guaranteed. With an annuity, guaranteed generally means that the income is the same each 
month or year. So in those terms, the payments from these two annuities were guaranteed. 
But I think that what Mrs L means is that neither she nor Mr L knew the payments would stop 
on Mr Ls death.  
The Friends Provident application form asks on page three whether a spouses or 
dependants annuity is required. The No option has been selected, and there are no 
spouses details entered where Mrs Ls details would go if the intention was to provide a 
widows benefit for her. I think this section of the application is clear and the overall  
application was signed by Mr L, which would tend to support the view that he was, or ought 
reasonably to have been, aware of the options that he selected. But Mrs Ls representative 
has said that the Walker Vallance adviser encouraged Mr L to sign without fully explaining. 
But if Mr L had any cause for concern then it is unlikely that he would have proceeded. He 
would also have had the benefit of the cooling off period if he had any doubts. So I think, on 
balance, that it is more likely than not that Mr L knew that no spouses benefit was included 
in the annuities. 
Mrs L says that the annuities were not suitable because she was financially dependent on 
Mr L. She says that the annuities should have included a widows pension so the income would have continued after Mr Ls death.
If I am to hold Walker Vallance responsible for this, first I have to establish whether advice 
was given. Because if Mr L made the decision himself then it would not be fair to hold 
Walker Vallance responsible. 
Walker Vallance has said it advised Mr L in relation to his GAR, but did not advise Mr L 
whether to take a widows benefit for the open market annuity. The adviser says he just gave 
Mr L details of the various options available to him and allowed him to choose. Mrs L also 
told us, via her representative, that Mr L was given no advice. But Im satisfied advice was 
given in relation to both annuities. I say this because Mr L took out the annuities with the 
help of an adviser. The adviser had some knowledge of their personal and financial 
circumstances so I think on balance Mr L was entitled to believe that both of the annuities he 
purchased carried the approval of the adviser and that both sales should therefore be judged 
on the higher standard that advised sales entail
The Norwich Union policy offered a GAR which was higher than the rate available on the 
open market. Norwich Union did not offer the option to add a widows pension. Given that 
the Norwich Union policy made up only a small percentage of the available pension funds, I 
think it is more likely than not that it was suitable to take the GAR in this case compared to 
shopping around. 
In respect of the open market option on the other policies, Walker Vallance say that Mrs L 
was not dependent on Mr L. They have referred to other assets of £11,000 and a personal 
pension worth £15,709. Walker Vallance also say that Mrs L had her own florist business. I 
cant verify the exact amount of all Mrs Ls financial arrangements at the time. But I note that 
Mrs Ls representative has seen Walker Vallances research and hasnt disagreed with what 
it has found in this respect. I can also see the printouts provided by Walker Vallance, which 
do indicate Mrs L was financially catered for outside of Mr Ls pension. I dont agree that this 
is enough, in isolation, to show conclusively that Mrs L was not dependent on Mr L, although 
Im satisfied it does show that she had some resources of her own. 
Furthermore, Mr Ls Will, made in 2004, provides for Mrs L in two ways. It leaves assets to a 
trust, the beneficiaries of which are Mrs L and her children. The Will also contains Mr Ls 
wish that Mrs L should be considered the main beneficiary of the trust. Secondly, the Will 
leaves the rest of Mr Ls assets, that do not go to the trust, directly to Mrs L. 
So we know that Mr L made provision for Mrs L by leaving assets to her outside of his 
pensions and that Mrs L appears to have had some resources of her own.
In that context, Im satisfied that taking an annuity without a widows pension was suitable. It 
offered a higher income that Mr and Mrs L could enjoy together, with other assets then 
available to provide for Mrs L on Mr Ls death. A ten year guarantee also meant that a 
decent proportion of the fund would have been paid out as income regardless of the time of 
Mr Ls death so this provided further protection for Mrs L. The ten year guarantee would 
have reduced the amount of income received by Mr L and wasnt a default option, so the fact 
that it was added also strongly suggests that Mr L and Walker Vallance carefully considered 
the trade-offs between income and spouses benefits; it doesnt suggest to me that Mrs Ls 
situation was overlooked.  
Furthermore, in giving advice on the open market option, I see no reason why Walker 
Vallance wouldnt have been paid the same commission regardless of the options selected 
(guarantee period, spouses pension and so on), given the commission would usually be based on the size of pension fund. So there wouldnt have been, as far as I can see, any 
financial reason for Walker Vallance to favour one shape of annuity over another. That 
doesnt preclude Walker Vallance making a mistake of course. But, for the reasons given 
above, I cant reasonably say that applies here.
So on balance, and based on the available evidence, I find that it is more likely than not that 
Walker Vallance acted fairly in relation to Mr Ls annuity sales. 
Therefore I do not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mrs Ls complaint against Walker Vallance and 
Company. I do not require Walker Vallance to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Martin Catherwood
Ombudsman