DRN-2556899
The complaint
Miss D complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim made on her 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss D was involved in an accident and her car was deemed to be beyond economical 
repair. Miss D retained the salvage and repaired her car. Miss D said her concerns about the 
total loss decision and the return of her car had been resolved. But she was unhappy with 
delays in the claim which affected her as a key worker. UKI paid her £200 compensation for 
this, but Miss D didnt think this was enough for the stress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of the claim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought there 
had been a delay in providing Miss D with a courtesy car. But he thought UKI had offered 
Miss D an alternative, which shed declined. He thought UKI had reasonably allowed Miss D 
to keep the courtesy car for three weeks after her car was deemed a total loss. And he 
thought its payment of £200 compensation for service failings was fair and reasonable. 
Miss D replied that she couldnt have replaced her car or settled the claim any quicker than 
she had. She thought UKI hadnt paid enough compensation for the anguish and distress 
shed suffered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss D was very frustrated and stressed by UKIs handling of her claim 
in the first four days. Miss D has helpfully provided a detailed account of her experiences in 
these four days. And I can see that UKI has accepted that this account is accurate and that it 
provided her with a poor level of service. 
Amongst UKIs failings were the following:
When Miss D reported the accident, she was assigned a recovery and repair company 
that was closed.
She was advised to drive her damaged car home, despite telling UKI water was coming 
from the radiator. This risked further damage and caused Miss D avoidable stress when 
the engine over-heated.
Miss D was transferred to a recovery company which initially declined to recover her car. 
It later recovered her car but not to her home address, as promised.
So, it took a whole day for Miss Ds car to be recovered.
When Miss D next contacted UKI it said it had no record of her claim or her cars 
whereabouts and that she was likely to have been the victim of fraud. This was incorrect. 
But I can understand that this must have been very stressful for Miss D at the time.
Miss D then spent the rest of the day either trying to progress her claim or waiting for 
news from UKI. A garage recovered her car and started its assessment but didnt provide 
Miss D with a courtesy car.
A courtesy car was promised in the first call but wasnt provided until four days later.
Miss D then had further concerns about the car being deemed a total loss, its valuation and 
having it returned to her. But shes told us that these concerns were later resolved and so Ill 
not consider them here. I note that Miss D had the car repaired for much less than UKIs 
estimate. But I dont think thats unusual and its difficult to compare privately arranged 
repairs with those made through an insurer and guaranteed. 
When a business makes a mistake, as UKI accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
I think Miss D was caused considerable upset and inconvenience by UKI in the first four 
days of her claim. UKI explained that some of the problems were due to IT failures and 
accommodating the requirements of the pandemic. But it also said human failure and lack of 
communication had contributed to the errors. It said it hadnt been proactive in ensuring that 
Miss D, as an essential worker, was kept mobile. 
UKI paid Miss D a total of £200 compensation for the impact of its handling of her claim. It 
also allowed her to keep the hire car for 20 days after her car was deemed to be a total loss. 
I can see on page 10 of the policy booklet that Miss D is only entitled to a courtesy car whilst 
hers is being repaired. Miss D thought the amount the hire had cost UKI should be 
considered. But I dont think this is relevant as it acted to keep her mobile. 
UKI also said that if there were issues with the courtesy car, then Miss D was entitled to hire 
taxis. I can understand that Miss D was reluctant to take up this offer. But I think UKI gave 
Miss D an alternative to a courtesy car. 
I can understand that this was a stressful experience for Miss D. But, taken together, I think 
UKI has fairly and reasonably compensated Miss D for the impact its handling of her claim 
had on her. I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman