DRN-3177554
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (VM) will not refund him 
for flights he purchased using his credit card.
What happened
Mr O bought internal return flights within the USA from a travel agent (the agent). However, 
he said that he did not use the flights because of UK government advice at the time in 
respect of the Covid-19 pandemic advising against travel to the USA.
Mr O says that the supplier offered credit towards future flights, but he wanted a cash refund. 
Because Mr O had used his VM credit card to pay for the flights he contacted VM for 
assistance with recovering the money.
VM did not agree to refund Mr O. In summary, it said that the chargeback was declined and 
as there was no breach of contract by the agent it would not uphold his claim via Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). Mr O was unhappy with this but VM would 
not change its position. So he complained to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. In summary, he said that:
Mr O did not have a valid chargeback right in this situation as the flights were not 
cancelled and departed as normal;
although the agent offers to handle cancellation and refund requests, its terms and 
conditions require Mr O to contact it by telephone at least 24 hours before the flight  
and it appeared Mr O had not done this.
Mr O disagreed with our investigators view so the matter was passed to me for decision. 
After considering the matter I wrote to Mr O with some additional thoughts  which he has 
also commented on (and which I refer to later on in my decision).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback
When buying goods and services using a credit card there are usually chargeback rights 
which might enable a customer to claim their money back in certain circumstances. 
However, these are limited by the particular chargeback scheme rules and a chargeback 
wont result in a refund in every situation. 
After considering the relevant chargeback scheme rules here, including any ancillary 
guidance, I am not persuaded that Mr O has a valid chargeback claim. Regardless of his 
reason for choosing not to board, his flight appears to have gone ahead - so the actual 
service he paid for was still available. In the circumstances, I am not persuaded that there is 
an applicable chargeback reason code. And while it might be possible to attempt a 
chargeback under the goods/services not provided reason code this would be likely to fail 
as the service was not cancelled or withdrawn. 
It is unclear how far VM got into the chargeback process. Some of the information I have 
seen indicates that it might have attempted to present the chargeback under the reason 
code mentioned above, only for it to be defended. But in any event, because of the lack of 
an appropriate reason code, I dont think VM acted incorrectly in deciding not to take the 
chargeback further. 
Section 75
Section 75 allows Mr O to hold VM responsible for breach of contract or misrepresentation in 
respect of goods or services purchased using the VM credit card. However, there are certain 
criteria that have to be met for a Section 75 claim to be valid. This might be in relation to the 
cost of the goods or services, the parties to the transaction, or the way the payment was 
made. 
I have considered the criteria that need to be satisfied in order for a Section 75 claim to be 
valid. After doing so I consider the relevant criteria met for Mr O to have a valid claim in 
relation to the tickets he bought. So I have gone on to consider if the supplier he paid (in this 
case the travel agent he bought the tickets from) has misrepresented the service or 
breached its contract with him.
I note that despite the circumstances of why Mr O decided not to board the flights, the 
service still went ahead and was not cancelled by the airline. Therefore, I have looked at the 
suppliers terms and conditions in relation to customer cancellation and refund requests. 
After doing so I am satisfied that it contractually agrees to handle such requests on behalf of 
its customer, but that any such entitlement to a refund will be governed by the terms and 
conditions of the airline. 
I note the investigator has concluded that Mr O did not comply with the suppliers terms and 
conditions in order for it to handle a cancellation and refund request on his behalf. The 
suppliers terms require customers to contact it with any change requests by telephone at 
least 24 hours before any travel. Mr Os original testimony indicates that he did not cancel 
his tickets in advance, but simply made the decision not to board the flights. He has since 
said he did try to cancel the flights but there was no way for him to do this. He later said that 
he did in fact speak to the supplier by telephone, but that it told him he could not cancel his 
flight. 
Mr Os testimony has been somewhat inconsistent, and I am not therefore sufficiently 
persuaded he did comply with the relevant suppliers terms in relation to change requests. 
However, even if this were not the case  the airlines terms and conditions (which the agent 
follows as stated in its own terms) say this:
Non-refundable fares may be cancelled prior to the scheduled departure time for a 
Credit for future air-only travel on Carrier. Refunds are not allowed. 
Mr O has been clear that when he pursued a refund he was informed that the airline policy 
meant that it could only offer him a credit towards future travel (which he did not want to 
accept). This indicates Mr Os fare was non-refundable and the terms above applied to it. 
Furthermore, I have not seen any persuasive evidence that Mr Os ticket class allowed him a 
cash refund in these circumstances.So, the terms and conditions of the airline do not appear to entitle Mr O to a refund in any 
event  only a credit toward future travel. Mr O has already confirmed that the airline was 
willing to offer him this, but he refused it. So I do not think it would be fair and reasonable for 
VM to pay him a refund for what has occurred here in any event. 
I have already contacted Mr O with my thoughts on this latter point. In summary, he said he 
hadnt seen the airlines terms before he tried to cancel the flights, which potentially highlights 
a wider issue with the supplier. He also says that the airline dissuaded him from taking a 
flight credit as he might get his money back through other means. I am sympathetic to the 
situation Mr O found himself in, however I have no reason to think that the terms and 
conditions werent readily available if Mr O choose to look for them - it appears that our 
investigator had no issue locating these on the airlines website. 
Even though the internal flights Mr O booked went ahead, for completeness, I have also 
thought about the argument that he was prevented from taking these due to UK government 
advice in place at the time in respect of the Covid-19 pandemic advising against travel to the 
USA. That might possibly give rise to an action in court against the supplier, on the basis 
that the contract was frustrated  the legal position here isnt clear. But even if that were the 
case, it wouldnt amount to a breach of contract.  
As VMs liability under Section 75 is limited to breach of contract or misrepresentation, I dont 
think it had acted unfairly when it didnt uphold Mr Os Section 75 claim. So I dont consider it 
fair to direct VM to pay Mr O the refund he wants.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman