DRN-3021305
The complaint
Miss G complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) overdraft charges were 
unfair and causing her financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss G complained to NatWest that its overdraft charges were unfair and causing her 
financial difficulty. NatWest offered to put a repayment plan in place, but Miss G was 
concerned this would negatively impact her credit file. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Gs concerns and reached the conclusion NatWest 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss G unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Miss G disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision.
Miss G has made a number of complaints to our service  to be clear my decision covers the 
complaint point in relation to the application of charges to Miss Gs account only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
Ive seen that Miss G has in some of her correspondence referred to the proportionality of 
the charges applied to her account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying 
that I havent considered whether the various amounts NatWest charged over the years 
were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service 
provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. And this also applies in regards to how a bank runs its 
business. I cannot make a bank change its systems or processes such as how debt 
repayment plans are agreed or how long a bank will wait to have a debt repaid. That said, 
while Im not looking at NatWests various charging structures or processes per se, it wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss G if it applied any interest, fees and charges 
to Miss Gs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
have been aware Miss G was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat Miss G fairly 
and reasonably. I dont think that NatWest did treat Miss G unfairly or unreasonably here 
though. I say this because having looked at Miss Gs statements I cant see anything to 
suggest that NatWest ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial 
difficulty prior to it being notified of this. 
Miss G may argue her regular use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that she was 
struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Miss G 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions. 
There were regular deposits of salary and cash transfers into the account and Miss G was 
able to bring the overdraft down before once again going on to use her overdraft to make 
debit card transactions and further money transfers. I accept this doesnt necessarily mean 
that Mrs I wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these 
transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted NatWest to any potential financial 
difficulty. And the amount being credited to Miss Gs account each month didnt indicate that 
there was no reasonable prospect of her seeing a credit balance at any stage either. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for NatWest to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Miss Gs account was being 
used. 
NatWest also refunded a large proportion of charges made to Miss Gs account over the last 
three years and no overdraft charges have been applied to her account since May 2020. So 
taking everything into consideration I dont think NatWest treated Miss G unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss G  especially as shes been waiting 
some time for this answer. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman