DRN-3266753
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money hes lost to a fraudster.
Whats happened?
Mr S was made redundant in 2019 and says he wanted to invest some of his redundancy 
settlement. He found a company online, which Ill refer to as E throughout this decision, that 
he thought was offering a genuine opportunity to invest in cryptocurrency. He made a card 
payment for £257.50 to E on 15 October 2019 from his HSBC account, to cover a small 
investment and Es administration fees. Mr S says he didnt carry out any detailed checks on 
E before making the card payment because of the relatively small sum he was investing. 
A short while later, Mr S received a telephone call from a representative of E, who told him 
hed been appointed as his financial manager (the manager). Mr S says that the manager:
came across as pleasant and plausible.
talked him through his financial experience and track record of making money.
explained that E was a newly formed company waiting on full approval from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
set out how investing with E worked  including the commission it would take and the 
variable rate of return he might expect to receive on his investment. 
gave him access to an online account with E which showed that his initial, small 
investment had trebled.
Mr S says Es website appeared professional and slick, and it had a padlock sign as seen on 
official websites. He had no prior investment experience, but he was encouraged by the 
apparent profit hed made on his initial investment. He was even able to arrange a 
withdrawal of funds back to his bank account - £86.49 on 18 October 2019.
The manager asked him to imagine what could be done with a larger investment and 
requested £6,500 to purchase bitcoin. Mr S says he wasnt entirely comfortable with 
investing such a large amount, but the manager was very persuasive, so he agreed to think 
about it overnight and do some checks on E. The manager supported this course of action 
and didnt put any pressure on him, he said Mr S could invest whatever amount he was 
comfortable with. 
Mr S says he checked Companies House and found what he thought was a parent company 
was registered with it. He also saw that E had some positive online reviews, and it wasnt on 
the FCAs warning list. This, together with the conversations hed had with the manager, the 
online account with E hed had the opportunity to see and the profits hed received, 
convinced him to go ahead. He believed, from what hed been told by the manager, that he 
would be able to withdraw his investment at any time. He opened a legitimate online trading 
account with a genuine cryptocurrency platform, which Ill refer to as C throughout this 
decision, and made the following payments into that new account via online banking from his 
HSBC account for the manager to trade with.
amount date
£6,150 18 October 2019
£11,700 24 October 2019
£25,000 28 October 2019
Mr S says he had lots of contact with the manager via telephone and email throughout the 
period he was making the above payments.
All of the payments were withdrawn to an unknown external wallet.
When Mr S attempted to make a further payment of £10,000 from his HSBC account on     
29 October 2019, C noticed that there had been a flurry of activity on a newly opened 
account and got in touch with him. C advised Mr S that E was likely to be a scam company, 
and the £10,000 was not sent.
Mr S reported the scam to HSBC. HSBC declined to reimburse him for the payments he had 
sent to E. It said that it wouldve displayed an online scam warning during the payment 
journey for each payment. And it said that its fraud team stopped the £11,700 payment when 
Mr S first tried to instruct it on 23 October 2019. At that time, Mr S confirmed to HSBC on the 
telephone that he was happy for the payment to be made. It was a reasonable assumption 
that any further payments to the same payee were genuine.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator recommended that HSBC refund all the money Mr S lost to the scam from 
the £6,150 payment and pay 8% simple interest from the date of each payment to the date 
of settlement. She said that HSBC had missed an opportunity to discuss the payments with 
Mr S in enough detail and, if it had, its likely that the scam wouldve been prevented.
HSBC didnt accept liability. It pointed out that Mr S sent the payments from his HSBC 
account to his own cryptocurrency account. It said that its not responsible for payments 
made from a non-HSBC account to a fraudster. It also said that if it had asked further 
questions about the payments, Mr S would have reassured it that he was sending funds to 
his own account.
HSBC asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Mr S authorised the four payments from his HSBC account. He 
made the payments using his debit card and online banking and, even though he was the 
victim of a scam, and he didnt intend the payments to go to a fraudster, the payments were 
authorised under the Payment Services Regulations. HSBC had an obligation to follow 
Mr S payment instructions, and Mr S is presumed liable for his loss in the first instance. But 
thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that HSBC 
should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Ive looked at Mr S account statements as far back as April 2019 and I dont think the card 
payment for £257.50 he made on 15 October 2019 was particularly unusual or out of 
character in consideration of the normal account activity. It was a low value payment, and bill 
and card payments of similar amounts were made from the account on a fairly regular basis. 
But the payment of £6,150 instructed on 18 October 2019 was relatively high value, for 
significantly more than any other recent payments out of the account and went to a new 
payee. So, I think it stood out as unusual and out of character and I think its reasonable to 
expect HSBC to have asked some further questions about it.
HSBC has argued that the payments Mr S made were transferred to his own cryptocurrency 
trading account, so the loss didnt occur on his HSBC account. But cryptocurrency scams 
often involve money passing through more than one account and they were not uncommon 
at the time. I think HSBC wouldve been aware of this. The FCA and Action Fraud published 
warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. By October 2019, when Mr S instructed 
the disputed payments, I think HSBC ought to have had time to digest these warnings and 
put mechanisms in place to detect and prevent this type of fraud. So, although Mr S losses 
may not have arisen from the initial transfers, Im satisfied they ought to have been within the 
contemplation of, and foreseeable to, HSBC. And Im satisfied that HSBC can be held 
responsible for the loss if it could have prevented the scam by asking Mr S some further 
questions about the payments.
It doesnt appear that Mr S was coached by the fraudster, as is often the case with scams, 
so I think he wouldve spoken freely if HSBC had asked him some questions about the first 
online transfer of £6,150.  And I think it would most likely have become apparent that he was 
being scammed at this point.
By October 2019, I think HSBC had or ought to have had a good enough understanding of 
how these scams work  including that the customer often moves money to an account in 
their own name before it is moved on to a fraudster  to have been able to identify the risk of 
harm from fraud. With its industry knowledge, I think HSBC ought to have asked Mr S some 
probing questions and given him information regarding the prevalence and typical features of 
cryptocurrency scams before processing the £6,150 payment. Mr S has said he had no 
concerns about investing for various reasons  including the information hed found about E 
online, that he had access to an apparently professional and secure online account with E 
and that he had received some returns from his initial investment  and thats what he may 
have said if HSBC had questioned him. But I dont think the conversation should have 
stopped there. HSBC couldve asked more questions in order to determine whether the 
typical features of cryptocurrency scams were present here. And it could have provided 
meaningful advice about cryptocurrency scams.
If HSBC had done enough, I think it would most likely have been obvious to the bank and 
Mr S that there was a risk of financial harm, and the scam wouldve unfolded without the 
£6,150 payment, or any subsequent payments, being made. Of course, HSBC could also have declined to make the payments altogether based on the information it had received if 
Mr S still wanted to go ahead with them despite its warnings, and given the circumstances 
here, I think it wouldve been reasonable for it to do so.
I appreciate HSBC needs to strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in payments, 
against the risk of unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment requests and 
I wouldnt have expected it to interrogate Mr S. I also acknowledge that the main perpetrator 
here is the fraudster. But overall, I think appropriate questions should reasonably have been 
asked in this case, and if they had been Mr S wouldnt have wanted to go ahead or, if he did, 
HSBC couldve declined to make the payments. Either way, I think the scam wouldve been 
prevented and Mr S wouldnt have lost his £6,150 or any further money to the fraudster.
I acknowledge that HSBC had a conversation with Mr S before processing the £11,700 
payment but I think this conversation should have happened sooner, and having listened to 
a recording of the telephone call, I dont think HSBC went far enough  in line with my 
findings above about the questions I think ought to have been asked, and the information 
I think ought to have been provided. Ive set out a transcript of the call below.
HSBC: Indeed, the online banking access is currently suspended because of the 
payment made from yesterday going to (C) for £11,700  is this genuine?
Mr S: Yes, it is genuine.
HSBC: May I ask what the payment is for?
Mr S: Its an investment. 
HSBC: Are you aware that for (C) its a place for buying and selling Bitcoins  is that 
what youre trying to do? 
Mr S: Correct. 
HSBC: Have you by any chance received some sort of text, emails or telephone calls 
claiming to be from HSBC or any third-party companyasking you to make this 
payment?
Mr S: No.
HSBC: Youve done this of your own accord? May I ask if you will be making any 
further transfers going to the same beneficiary? 
Mr S: Quite possibly but none planned at the moment.
HSBC: With your confirmation Ill have your online banking access reactivated and 
for the payment that was stopped yesterday are you still looking to send this payment 
today  do you still want me to do it for you?
Mr S: Yes, as soon as possible please.
HSBC: Ill go ahead and reprocess this payment  it will no longer be flagged up for 
security  it will be with your beneficiarys account in less than an hour  your online 
banking will be restored.
I also acknowledge that scam warnings may have been provided when Mr S instructed the 
payments via online banking as HSBC has suggested. But having looked at those warnings, 
I consider them too general in nature and unrelated to the fraud Mr S fell victim to. So, I dont 
think they went far enough in the circumstances. Ive set out the warnings below.
FRAUD ALERT: Dont fall victim to a scam. Criminals pretend to be people you trust, 
like a company youd pay bills to, HSBC or even the police. HSBC will never ask you 
to move money, but criminals will.
BE AWARE: Have you received an unexpected request to make a payment? If you 
have, then stop and contact the company using their telephone number from a 
trusted source e.g. their website.
IMPORTANT: HSBC will never ask you to disclose any security codes from your Security key, only fraudsters will.
Considering everything, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is to uphold this complaint 
and instruct HSBC to reimburse all the money Mr S has lost to this scam from the £6,150 
payment onwards. I cant be sure what Mr S would have done with his retirement settlement 
had he not fallen victim to this scam. Hes said he planned on investing some of the money, 
as well as using some of it to clear outstanding debt and for day-to-day expenditure. So, 
I think it is fairest to award 8% simple interest from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement, to reflect the cost of being deprived of his money.
I have considered whether Mr S should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. Hes said he was aware that E wasnt FCA-regulated. But not all legitimate 
companies are regulated, and I think Mr S explanation on why he wasnt concerned about 
the investment opportunity is reasonable. I think the apparently professional written 
correspondence from the manager, the information Mr S says he got from the checks he did 
on E, having access to a seemingly professional and secure online account with E and 
receiving some returns on his investment was enough to satisfy a reasonable person. 
Overall, I dont think there was any contributory negligence on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
reimburse the money Mr S has lost to this scam from and including the £6,150 
payment; plus
pay 8% simple interest per year, calculated from the date of each payment to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman