DRN-4075749
The complaint
Mr P complains that West Bay Insurance Plcs agent caused further damage to his car after 
it was taken for assessment following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. He wants 
it to repair the damage. 
What happened
Mr Ps car was vandalised whilst parked and unattended and he made a claim on his policy. 
West Bays agent collected Mr Ps car for assessment. West Bays engineer decided that the 
car was beyond economical repair and made Mr P an offer in settlement of his claim. Mr P 
decided to retain the car and repair it himself. The car was returned to Mr P, but he said 
there was now further damage to the car. He thought this had been caused by the agent. 
West Bay disagreed, but it offered Mr P £75 compensation for his call times. 
our investigators view
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He saw 
photographs of the car taken after it was delivered back to Mr P, and he couldnt see the 
damage Mr P identified. West Bay said the agents delivery couldnt have caused the 
damage. The Investigator thought the further damage had been caused after the car had 
been returned to Mr P. So he didnt think West Bay needed to do anything further.
Mr P replied that the images provided by the agent didnt match his address. He asked for 
images taken at the point of delivery and the offloading. Mr P asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an Ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to West Bay on 22 March 2023. I summarise my findings:
Its now over a year since the incident. Mr P said he repaired the damage to his car caused 
by vandals. And I could understand that he wanted his car fully repaired. But West Bay said 
it wasnt responsible for the further damage. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
In his complaint to us, Mr P said the new damage to his car was to the rear wheels 
(Decorative Coating) and Front Valance area. He thought the car had been pushed up 
against others or backed into whilst with the agent. 
Mr P complained to West Bay specifying in detail the areas of damage he had noted: front 
bumper, front grill, parking sensor, and front camera. Mr P provided images of the car taken 
before recovery which showed no damage to the front of the car or to the rear wheels. 
West Bay investigated Mr Ps concerns and replied that its agent had provided close up 
images of the tyres for the return delivery which didnt show any damage. It said the damage 
to the wheels was inconsistent with the straps used for transport. But Mr P said the damage 
was caused in the unloading of the car and the agents photographs didnt show his 
driveway or the surrounding area, so they werent taken after delivery. 
West Bay was also concerned that Mr P had raised his complaint thirteen days after the car 
was returned to him. But I could see that Mr P complained to West Bay about the new 
damage four days after his car was returned to him. He said hed called it earlier, but he 
couldnt get through due to call hold times. So I didnt think this was a reason to dismiss his 
concerns.
Mr P said the driver who returned his car had taken images of the new damage on his 
phone. But these photographs hadnt been provided. So I couldnt consider these. 
West Bay said Mr P may have caused damage to the cars alloy wheels when he changed 
the tyres, or attempted repairs, after it was returned to him. It said this was because the 
photographs provided by Mr P showed what appeared to be dry gel adhesive in the area. 
But Mr P said the tyres had been changed professionally. 
We asked West Bay why the images it said were taken of the car on its return to Mr P 
werent date stamped. And we asked for the check in sheets that are usually made when 
cars are collected and returned to a consumer. This was so I could validate that the damage 
Mr P said was caused by West Bays agent wasnt present when the car was returned to 
him. But, despite allowing ample time, West Bay hadnt provided this evidence. 
Without this I couldnt safely say that the car wasnt further damaged whilst it was in the 
agents care. Also, I couldnt see that West Bay asked for the photographs Mr P said the 
delivery driver took when he returned the car. And so I wasnt satisfied that West Bay had 
justified its decision not to take responsibility for this further damage. 
To put things right for Mr P, I thought West Bay should pay Mr P the cost of these further 
repairs, on provision of an estimate for them. Mr P could reasonably expect his car to be 
returned to him without further damage. And I also thought West Bay should pay him £200 
further compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused. 
Subject to any further representations from Mr P and West Bay, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P replied that the further damage had yet to be repaired. He said hed returned the £75 
compensation cheque sent by West Bay. West Bay didnt respond to my provisional 
decision. 
As Ive received no additional evidence to consider, I can see no reason to change my 
provisional decision, with one exception. Mr P didnt wish to accept West Bays initial offer of 
£75 compensation for his call times, and he returned its cheque. My provisional decision 
required West Bay to pay him £200 further compensation. And so I think this £75 should now 
be added to its compensation payment to him.
Putting things right
I require West Bay Insurance Plc to do the following:
1. Pay for the cost of the repairs to the further damage Mr P has identified on his car, on 
provision of an estimate for this.
2. Pay Mr P £275 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling 
of his claim. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require West 
Bay Insurance Plc to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman