DRN-3224324
The complaint
Ms M complains that Santander UK Plc hasnt fairly compensated her for a mis-sold credit
card Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Santander upheld Ms Ms PPI mis-selling complaint and it offered her compensation  an
amount of £0.27p.
In calculating Ms Ms compensation, Santander made some assumptions about the running 
of her account because it no longer has complete account records going back to the start of 
the account in 1998. It says that in the 12 months prior to Ms Ms credit card account being 
transferred to a different provider the account balance was nil. It also says that the other 
providers records show that in the first 12 months it had the account the balance was also 
nil. Santander says it has used this information to assume what the activity was on Miss Ms 
account in the five years she held the account with it.
Ms M said shes not happy with Santanders offer  she doesnt agree with the assumptions
Santander has made. She said she used her credit card for various essential items, so she
expects that she paid more by way of PPI. Ms M said that she doesnt have any credit card
statements to show this.
I issued my provisional decision of November 2021 in which I said that, in the absence of 
evidence to suggest otherwise, I didnt think Santander had acted unfairly in calculating Ms 
Ms PPI compensation.
Santander replied and said it had nothing further to add.
Despite reminding Ms M of the deadline for responses and allowing her more time to 
respond, Ms M hasnt replied to my provisional decision. Given that Im satisfied Ms M 
received my provisional decision, I think it is reasonable to assume that if she wanted to 
respond she wouldve done so by now. So in the circumstances I think it is safe for me to 
carry on and issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint.
It is unfortunate  and no doubt frustrating for Ms M - that Santander no longer has
comprehensive account records of the activity on her credit card account to enable it to
determine the exact amount of PPI compensation Ms M is owed. 
But this isnt unusual or surprising  not only did things happen many years ago, its also the 
case that the account was transferred to another credit card provider. Businesses dont have 
to keep records indefinitely.
So in situations like this, I would expect Santander to use what records are still available and
to make some reasonable assumptions about the activity on the account where there are
gaps or missing records. In Ms Ms case, Santander has used the transaction records from
the other credit card provider covering the 12-month period following the account transfer.
Ive looked at these and they show there was no transaction activity on the account.
Santander has also provided a record of the account balance in the 12 months leading up to
Ms Ms account being transferred. And this too shows there was no activity and importantly
no outstanding balances on which PPI would have been charged during this period.
So it appears from the records which are available that Ms M didnt use her card in the 12
months prior to the account transfer or in the 12 months after the transfer. It would therefore
seem reasonable to me for Santander to take this information into account when making
assumptions about Ms Ms account activity for the period when no records are available.
Ms M says that she used her credit card to make various essential purchases. And I accept
that this is possible - particularly as the account was open for around five years before it was
transferred. But on the other hand Ms M hasnt provided any other information to support this
 for example account statements to show the activity she talks about  so I cant say that
this is more likely.
So taking everything into account, theres simply not enough evidence here to show or imply
that Ms M did, more likely than not, use her account during the period in question as she
describes. Because of this I dont think Santander has acted unfairly in making the
assumptions it has in calculating Ms Ms PPI compensation. In the circumstances I think
Santanders offer is fair - I dont intend to tell it to do anything more to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Santander UK Plc has acted unfairly towards
Ms M in making her an offer of compensation for mis-sold PPI  so I dont uphold
this complaint. Santander UK Plc should now pay Ms M her PPI compensation if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman