DRN-3138651
The complaint
Mr K complains about a conditional sale agreement taken out with Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc. (Santander). 
What happened
In September 2018 an agreement was made in the name of Mr K with Santander. Under the 
agreement Santander agreed to provide a used car to Mr K and to provide the finance to pay 
for it. 
When Mr K complained to this service, in January 2020 he told us he should not owe any 
money to Santander under the agreement because he did not sign the agreement nor the 
direct debit mandate. Rather he suggested his signature had been forged on both 
documents. 
Further, Mr K pointed out that the agreement was completed in one part of the UK (which I 
will call location A) but he was in a different part of the country (which I will call location B) at 
the time when the agreement was made. Location A and location B are at least a hundred 
miles apart. 
Moreover, Mr K suggested he had never had possession of the car and therefore never had 
the use of the car.
For all of these reasons Mr Ks stance was that Santander is acting unfairly in trying to hold 
him to an agreement he is adamant that he did not make with it.
Santanders perspective is very different from that of Mr K.  According to Santanders 
internal records Mr K has given conflicting accounts about the agreement and his role in 
relation to it. I set out below a summary of these accounts of events as noted in Santanders 
internal records.
In December 2018 Santander was notified by a third party company that a new keeper had 
been registered for the car. This was a breach of the agreement as only Mr K was meant to 
be the registered keeper of the car. The new keeper was a person who I will refer to as Mr 
B.  I will talk more about Mr B later. Santander contacted Mr K to say that if he had sold the 
car he would need to settle the agreement in full. Mr K contacted it to say he had not parted 
with possession of the car and would send it the relevant document (a V5 document) to 
show it this was the case. 
However, Santanders records show it never received a copy of the V5 document from Mr K. 
As a result of this, in April 2019 Santander contacted Mr K again about whether he still had 
possession of the car, he said he did. He told it again he would send it a copy of the V5. But 
Santander has no record of ever receiving the V5.
In August 2019 Mr K contacted Santander to ask that it change his repayment dates. An 
annual statement for the finance agreement was also sent to Mr K in August 2019.
In November 2019 Santander was told by the police that the car had been involved in an 
accident. In this same month, and after the police had been in touch with Santander, Mr K 
contacted Santander asking it for a settlement figure. In addition, he also asked about 
transferring the agreement into the name of another person. Mr K also added something 
new he said, he had taken out the agreement, but he had done this for the benefit of another 
person, Mr B, this is commonly known as fronting. 
Also, in November 2019 Mr K again contacted Santander and asked that the agreement be 
transferred from his name to someone elses. He pointed out that Santanders website said 
this could happen in exceptional circumstances. Mr K suggested that because the car had 
been involved in an accident which was being investigated by the police, this was an 
exceptional circumstance which should result in the agreement being transferred out of his 
name. 
Further, Mr K indicated he no longer wanted to be a party to the agreement because Mr B 
who had been making all the repayments towards the agreement had stopped doing so. 
Moreover, it appears Mr K suggested Santander ought to chase Mr B for payment, but 
Santander explained it could not do this as Mr B was not its customer. Mr K told Santander 
that within weeks of taking out the agreement he had signed documents to transfer the 
possession of the car to Mr B therefore, he had proof he had never had possession of the 
car so should not have to pay for it.
In December 2019 Mr K complained to Santander that it had never previously made him 
aware that he would not be able to oblige it to take the agreement out of his name and put it 
into another persons name. Mr K pointed out, once more, that Santanders own website said 
this was an option that was available to its customers. Mr K repeated once more, that in any 
event, two weeks after the agreement was made he changed the registered keeper of the 
car from himself to Mr B. Moreover, Mr K said he never signed the agreement and he 
wanted a signed copy of the original agreement. Later, but still in December 2019, the notes 
say Mr K said he did take out the agreement, he did it as a favour to Mr B who was a family 
friend.
Santander contacted the credit broker of the agreement who is also a car dealership, this is 
a limited company I will call Q. Q in its role as a car dealership supplied the car to 
Santander, which Santander then supplied to Mr K. Q confirmed that it had checked to make 
sure that it was Mr K who had entered into the agreement. It suggested it had verified who 
he was by asking to see his driving licence at the time and it had copied that licence. Q sent 
Santander the copy of the driving licence that it had on file. 
Santander agreed that it had not called Mr K back on one occasion when it said it would. It 
thought this would have caused Mr K distress and inconvenience, as a result it offered Mr K 
£25 to make up for this. It appears it has paid this money to Mr K and he has accepted this 
redress in relation to this one complaint point.  But Santander did not agree to stop pursuing 
Mr K for the money owed under the agreement. 
Dissatisfied with Santanders response Mr K came to this service.
Once his complaint was with us Mr K told us a number of new things. He suggested he did 
not know anything about the agreement in advance he only found out about it afterwards. He 
also indicated that Mr B had a relationship with Q which would have allowed him to get a 
finance deal with Santander for Mr K without following the normal processes. Mr K believes 
Mr B used his privileged relationship with Q to set up the agreement as if Mr K had known 
about it and signed up to it. Mr K underlined that he thinks the crux of this complaint is that 
his signature was forged on the agreement and direct debit mandate. Moreover, he could not 
have been in location A signing the agreement because he had been in location B on the 
relevant date and at the relevant time.
At a later date, Mr K told us that he had entered into the agreement. But he explained that 
Mr B had threatened him and that is why he entered into the agreement. However, then on a 
different occasion, he also said he had never entered into the agreement rather Mr B had 
stolen his driving licence from him for the purpose of setting up the agreement. Once the 
agreement had been completed Mr B had told him what he had done. Mr K indicated he had 
not said anything to Santander at the time because Mr B had threatened him at this point.  Mr K accepted that he had not always given accurate information about his role in this 
matter, but he explained that this was because he feared retribution from Mr B. Mr K sent us 
information about his contact with Mr B which he suggested would support what he had told 
us about Mr Bs coercion. These were new points which had not previously been disclosed 
by Mr K nor investigated by Santander. On that basis we had no power to look at these 
issues. However, we contacted Santander with this new information, and it agreed that the 
new points could be dealt with as part of this complaint provided it was given an opportunity 
to investigate first.
Santander reviewed the new information, it also got in contact with Q again. Santander 
concluded that Mr Ks new information did not demonstrate that he had been either forced to 
enter into the agreement or had been forced to keep quiet about the agreement after the 
event. Rather, Santanders position was in fact the information Mr K provided showed that 
Mr K had entered into the agreement freely to help Mr B out and because Mr B paid him to 
do this.
Moreover, Q responded to say that Mr K was a very valued customer who had purchased 
several cars from it over a very short space of time. It added that Mr B had introduced Mr K 
to it as his friend and that Mr B had facilitated the purchases by Mr K.
One of our investigators looked at Mr Ks complaint. Mr K was invited to tell us why he had 
not told us about his previous purchases from Q, which according to Q had been facilitated 
by Mr B. Mr K did not respond.
Our investigator did not recommend upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Santander appeared to accept this recommendation. Mr K did not. In short Mr K repeated 
points, hed already made about being in location B when the contract was being made in 
location A. He also repeated that he had not signed the contract.
Mr K asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It seems that Mr K had dropped most of the complaint points he made before the complaint 
came to this service. Mr Ks position now seems to be:
He did make the agreement with Santander but should not be held to it because Mr B 
forced him to take out the agreement. Ill call this point 1.
He did not make the agreement with Santander Mr B did and used an identity 
document and bank details that he took without consent from Mr K to do this. After 
the event Mr B threatened him and as a result Mr K kept silent about what had 
happened. In the circumstances therefore Mr K suggests he ought not to be held 
liable for the agreement. Ill call this point 2.
He knew nothing about the agreement in advance, or he did know about the 
agreement in advance but either way this is irrelevant because he did not make the 
contract with Santander, in so far as he did not sign the contract and was not in 
location A when the contract was made. Ill call this point 3.
I will look at each point in turn. Point 1
If Mr K had been forced to enter into the agreement with Santander due to threats from Mr B 
I would think it fair and reasonable that Santander treat the agreement as if it had never 
been made and that it should stop pursuing Mr K under the terms of the agreement.
I realise that Mr K has provided inconsistent information about how it came about that this 
agreement was made with Santander. However, I think that could be explained by him trying 
to find a way of getting out the agreement without revealing the full background. I can 
understand why Mr K might have decided he needed to take this approach. So, I dont think 
this inconsistency, by itself, should prevent me placing weight on what Mr K says now.
Mr K has sent us information about his contact with Mr B in relation to the agreement. I find 
this very persuasive information as Mr K and Mr B are in the best position to know what 
arrangement, if any, existed between them as regards the contract with Santander. I have 
considered this information. But although Mr K suggests this information shows he was 
forced into the agreement I dont agree. Rather the information seems to show that Mr K did 
make the agreement with Santander and did so voluntarily, in order both to help Mr B out, 
and also to earn a fee. 
Further, it seems that the plan was that Mr K would front for Mr B and hand over the car to 
him. In return Mr B would make the repayments towards he car. The plan appears to have 
gone awry when the car was in an accident and Mr B stopped making the repayments. This 
in turn appears to have left Mr K with no car and no access to the car but with the liability to 
make the repayments towards the car.
Im persuaded that there was a history of Mr B helping Mr K obtain cars via Q. And this 
supports the finding that Mr K and Mr B had a private arrangement whereby Mr K agreed to 
enter into the contract with Santander and then hand the car over to Mr B.
I think it is relevant that Mr B was making the repayments at first, it appears that Mr B was 
paying Mr K and then Mr K was paying Santander which supports the finding that Mr K and 
Mr B had an agreement between themselves and that Mr K was not forced to enter into the 
agreement with Santander.
In addition, at one point, it appears, that Mr K suggested Santander should chase Mr B for 
payment. This was documented in Santanders internal notes and I think it is likely that these 
notes are accurate. I think that Mr K would not have suggested Santander pursue Mr B if he 
was worried about Mr Bs possible response to this or if Mr B had already threatened him.
It follows I am not persuaded by what Mr K has said about Mr B making him enter into the 
agreement. That being the case, I see no reason why Santander should not be able to rely 
on the contract that both it and Mr K entered into freely. It follows that I dont uphold this part 
of Mr Ks complaint.
Point 2
Mr Ks alternative position is that unbeknownst to him Mr B obtained his personal information 
and used it to purport to set up the contract between Mr K and Santander. If this was so Mr 
K would have no contractual liability to Santander because he would never have been a 
party to the contract, so there would be no contractual relationship for Santander to rely on 
here. Mr K also suggests that once he found out about the contract he was forced by Mr B to 
accept the situation. I think it is fair to note at this juncture, that this point 2 contradicts Mr Ks 
point 1 and Mr K has not explained this contradiction.
However, the information Mr K sent us about his contact with Mr B, suggests, as I have 
already mentioned that Mr K was a willing party to the contract, rather than this was 
something that Mr B did behind Mr Ks back.
When the contract was made Q took both details of Mr Ks driving licence and his bank 
account. If I am to be persuaded by Mr Ks version of events I must accept that Mr B got hold of this data without Mr Ks consent. But Mr K has not been able to explain how Mr B might 
have accessed both his driving licence and his bank details. Mr K initially suggested Mr B 
might have taken a photo of his driving licence to use illicitly. Though how Mr B might have 
got hold of Mr Ks driving licence in the first place is not satisfactorily explained. All Mr K has 
said about this is that Mr B has visited his home.
In any event, Q tells us it took a copy of the original licence. Plus, Mr K has not explained 
how Mr B might have got his bank details too if he did not give them to him. Moreover, I am 
persuaded there was a history of transactions between Mr K, Mr B and Q. 
All of the above leads me to find it is more likely than not that Mr B had Mr Ks personal 
information because Mr K willingly gave it.
Moreover, the information Mr K sent us about his contact with Mr B suggests, that Mr K tried 
to help Mr B by fronting for him. This contradicts what Mr K has told us about keeping quiet 
about a contract he knew nothing about beforehand, due to Mr Bs threatening behaviour, 
which I have already mentioned.
That said, I accept that Mr K became unhappy about the arrangement after Mr B stopped 
making the repayments. And I also accept that he wanted to get out of the arrangement with 
Santander. But that is not the same as accepting that Mr K never entered into the agreement 
at all, and was prevented from telling Santander this due to threats from Mr B.
For all of these reasons, I am not persuaded that I have any proper basis for telling 
Santander there is no contract on which it can rely. Or that that it must no longer pursue Mr 
K for payment.
Point 3
Mr K has invited us to compare the signature on the contract and the direct debit mandate to 
his normal signature. His point being that someone forged his signature on these 
documents. Therefore, he is suggesting that the contract is not a properly created contract 
and is therefore invalid.
This service is not a handwriting expert and cant do the sort of handwriting analysis Mr K 
might be expecting. I make no finding on this point. 
Mr K points out that when the contract was being made in location A he was in location B. 
That may be so but that does not persuade me that Santander cannot rely on the contract 
with him. I am satisfied for the reasons I have set out above that Mr K willingly entered into 
the contract with Santander. Im also satisfied that the contract reflects the contractual 
arrangements he meant to enter into with it. I cant discount that Mr K might have signed the 
contract in advance given the wider circumstances of this complaint,
For all of these reasons I dont uphold this part of Mr Ks complaint. It follows, I find it is fair 
and reasonable to say that Santander can rely on the contract it entered into with Mr K in 
good faith, in the circumstances. In other words, I am not asking it to stop pursuing Mr K for 
payment under the contract.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021
. 
Joyce Gordon
 
Ombudsman
