DRN-4077714
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the advice provided by Specialist Motor Finance Limited, who Ill call 
SMF. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think SMFs delayed response caused Mr C some distress and inconvenience here and Im 
asking them to take some action to put things right for him.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C initially contacted SMF in August 2022. He needed advice when he was experiencing 
financial difficulties paying instalments towards his car finance agreement. A payment plan 
wasnt put in place until February 2023. 
Mr C has explained that he wanted a response by email, but I cant see he requested that of 
SMF, and I can see they did attempt to make contact with him, albeit by other means. 
On balance, although I think there were times when Mr C could have responded to calls and 
texts from SMF, I also think had SMF replied directly to Mr Cs August 2022 email its likely a 
payment plan would have been arranged earlier. In those circumstances, I think Mr C has 
experienced some distress and inconvenience as a result of SMFs inaction and I think they 
should pay him £75 in recognition of that. I also think they should amend reports they have 
made to the credit reference agencies to show the payment plan was arranged in September 
2022.
Putting things right
SMF should put things right in the way Ive set out above and summarised below.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and tell Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited to:
Pay Mr C £75 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Amend reports to the credit reference agencies to show the payment plan was 
arranged in September 2022.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman