DRN-4238224
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited settled their 
claim against their travel insurance policy on a proportionate basis. Reference to Red Sands 
includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs P booked a trip with intended departure and return 
dates of 22 June 2022 and 4 July 2022 respectively. In early June 2022, Mr and Mrs P 
bought an annual travel insurance policy underwritten by Red Sands. They paid a 
premium of £318.87. Mr and Mrs P completed medical screening. The policy certificate 
shows that Mr P declared a heart attack, coronary artery bypass graft, high blood 
pressure, cholesterol levels and an implantable defibrillator. Mrs P disclosed two medical 
conditions which arent relevant to this complaint. 
On 30 June 2022, whilst on their trip, Mr P had chest pains. On 1 July 2022 he sought 
hospital treatment and Mrs P contacted Red Sands in order to make a claim against the 
policy. I understand that the treating doctors diagnosed a heart attack, heart failure and 
pulmonary oedema. 
Mr P had treatment and was discharged from hospital on 6 July 2022. He had outpatient 
treatment and was declared fit to fly on 26 July 2022. Mr and Mrs P paid the extensive 
medical bills. 
Red Sands obtained Mr Ps medical history from his GP and retro screened the policy. In 
late July 2022, Red Sands decided that it would make a proportionate settlement. On   
30 September 2022, Red Sands explained that to Mr P. I understand that Mr and Mrs P 
received a proportionate settlement payment on 11 October 2022. Red Sands said that it 
was making a proportionate settlement because of non-disclosure of Mr Ps medical 
conditions. It said that its decision was being reviewed. 
Red Sands subsequently said that Mr and Mrs P failed to take reasonable care not to make 
a misrepresentation. It says that when it asked Mrs P the questions about Mr Ps implantable 
defibrillator it was noted that Mr P was taking medication for heart failure. But she answered 
no when asked whether Mr P had suffered any heart related breathlessness or ankle 
swelling. It said that these are the main symptoms of heart failure and if Mrs P had answered 
correctly, it would have asked her further questions which would have captured Mr Ps heart 
failure and left ventricular dysfunction (LVD). 
Red Sands says that if it had known the true position, it would have charged Mr and Mrs P a 
higher premium. It agreed to settle 62.77% of the claim for medical expenses. Mr and Mrs P 
didnt think that was fair and pursued the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs P want Red Sands to settle their claim for emergency medical expenses and 
repatriation in full.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Initially, our investigator thought 
that Red Sands hadnt acted unfairly in settling Mr and Mrs Ps claim on a proportionate 
basis. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with the investigator and gave more detail about the 
questions Red Sands asked them at the time of the sale of the policy and the answers 
they gave. 
The investigator reconsidered the matter and recommended that the complaint be 
upheld. That was because she thought that Mrs P correctly answered the questions she 
was asked at the time of the sale of the policy and took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. So, the investigator didnt think that Red Sands had acted fairly in 
settling the claim on a proportionate basis. She thought that Red Sands should pay the 
remainder of the claim for emergency medical expenses and pay interest. 
Red Sands didnt respond to the investigators recommendation. As there was no 
agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract 
(a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. If a consumer fails 
to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what 
CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed 
to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA 
depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
Red Sands thinks that Mr and Mrs P failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. It says that when it asked Mrs P the questions about Mr Ps 
implantable defibrillator it was noted that Mr P was taking medication for heart failure. 
But she answered no when asked whether Mr P had suffered any heart related 
breathlessness or ankle swelling. It said that these are the main symptoms of heart 
failure and if Mrs P had answered correctly, it would have asked her further questions   
which would have captured Mr Ps heart failure and LVD.
Ive listened carefully to the recording of the phone call when Mrs P bought the 
policy. Based on what Ive seen and heard, I think that Mrs P took reasonable care to 
answer the questions she was asked. Mrs P disclosed Mr Ps heart attack, which 
Red Sands confirmed it was already aware of. She explained that Mr P had a 
defibrillator fitted in January 2021. Red Sands then went on to ask Mrs P questions 
related to the defibrillator, one of which was whether Mr P had any heart-related 
breathlessness or ankle swelling. Mrs P replied no. 
Mrs P says that Mr P doesnt have heart related breathlessness or ankle swelling. 
She says that Mr Ps lower leg circulation assessment was in relation to pain in his big toe, not ankle swelling. Red Sands havent produced any evidence to show that 
Mr P had heart-related breathlessness or ankle swelling in the relevant period. 
I dont think that Red Sands has shown that Mrs P failed to take reasonable care 
when Mr and Mrs P bought the policy. So, I dont think theres been a 
misrepresentation. It follows that I dont think that Red Sands acted fairly and 
reasonably in settling the claim on a proportionate basis. 
In order to put things right, Red Sands should pay the balance of the claim for 
emergency medical and repatriation costs, in accordance with the remaining terms of 
the policy. 
Theres been significant delay in settling the claim. Mrs P contacted Red Sands on   
1 July 2022. It appears that Red Sands made a decision about the claim by the end 
of July 2022. It wasnt until 30 September 2022 that Red Sands explained that to    
Mr P. And Mr and Mrs P received only partial reimbursement in October 2022. I 
understand that Red Sands paid over £6,000 in October 2022 and £6,470.46 in   
June 2023. Its payments have been confusing for Mr and Mrs P. Red Sands should 
provide Mr and Mrs P with a statement showing its settlement of the claim. It should 
also pay interest on the claim from the date of the claim to the dates of its various 
partial settlements.  
An insurer is, of course, entitled to make appropriate medical enquiries on receipt of 
a claim. But its not clear to me why Mr and Mrs P were left to pay all of the 
substantial costs at an already very worrying time. I think that Mr and Mrs P suffered 
distress and inconvenience as a result of Red Sands delay in dealing with this matter 
and its decision to settle on a proportionate basis. I think that fair compensation for 
that is £750.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Red Sands should: 
Pay the balance of the claim for emergency medical and repatriation costs, subject to 
the policy terms and conditions.  
Provide Mr and Mrs P with a statement showing its settlement of the claim. 
Pay interest on the claim at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the date                  
Mr and Mrs P made the claim until the date of its various payments.   
Pay compensation of £750 in relation to their distress and inconvenience.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Red Sands to take off tax from this interest. Red Sands 
must give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if they ask for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I now require Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited to take the steps Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 Louise Povey
Ombudsman