DRN-3634361
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG hasnt settled a claim he made on his 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr P was involved in two separate accidents which led to him receiving hospital 
treatment in the USA. Mr P successfully claimed on his travel insurance policy. 
URV refused to settle two of the invoices for the medical expenses in full. The first invoice 
was for $233,765.03 and the other was for $8,993.89. URV paid a total of around $29,500 
towards the invoices but wouldnt pay any more. They said the cost of treatment was inflated 
and so theyd made a payment based on the cost rates published annually by US Congress. 
Mr P has been chased by a debt collector for the balance. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service considered a complaint made by Mr P in 2020. Our 
investigator concluded that URV should have the opportunity to negotiate with the debt 
collector but made it clear that this should be meaningful negotiation. Mr P and URV 
accepted the investigators findings. 
Mr P referred a further complaint to our service in May 2022. In summary, he said the matter 
still wasnt resolved and URV should settle the bill. URV maintained that the bill was inflated. 
So, our investigator looked into what had happened since URV and Mr P had accepted his 
opinion. 
The investigator upheld Mr Ps complaint and directed URV to settle the invoices. He didnt 
think URV were taking into account Mr Ps interests and that there had been limited 
correspondence with the debt collector since December 2020. Nor was he persuaded it was 
reasonable for URV to use the US congressional rates as a fair baseline for the settlement.
URV didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They shared some 
data from the hospital which they said, in summary, demonstrated the payment theyd made 
was fair. So, the case has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) set out how the 
Ombudsman Service can make awards.
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant the 
ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which in this case is 
URV. 
DISP 3.7.11R provides that a direction may require the respondent, here URV, to take such 
steps in relation to the complainant as the ombudsman considers just and appropriate 
whether or not a court could order those steps to be taken. 
The policy terms say URV can: 
Take over and deal with, in your name, the defence/settlement of any claim made 
under the policy.
In effect, this means that URV has the right to take over the conduct of a claim - defending or 
settling it in the name of Mr P. But, thats not an unqualified right. 
Legally, in situations where URVs interests conflict with Mr P, URV has an overarching 
responsibility to act in good faith, having regard to Mr Ps interests as well as their own. 
URV isnt entitled to act arbitrarily in the way it goes about declining to pay the full amount of 
the invoice and contesting the outstanding amount. In deciding whether - and how - to 
defend a claim against Mr P, URV is required to base their decisions on the circumstances 
of Mr Ps individual case.
The applicable regulations lead to a similar conclusion.  The Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for Businesses, which URV must follow, 
including:
Principle 6 - A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly 
Principle 8 - A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and 
its customers and between a customer and another client.
The relevant regulations also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress
(3) not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and
(4)  settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled The Responsibilities of Providers and 
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance 
on what the combination of Principles for Businesses ("the Principles") and the detailed rules 
require respectively of providers and distributors of financial services in certain 
circumstances to treat customers fairly. The RPPD explains that firms should consider the 
impact of their action, or inaction, on the customer throughout the life-cycle of the provision 
of the service. 
Ill now explain what this means for Mr Ps complaint. 
In September 2020 our investigator concluded it would be reasonable to give URV an 
opportunity to meaningfully negotiate with the third parties involved to resolve the 
outstanding balance. He explained to URV that if they didnt carry out meaningful negotiation 
then the Financial Ombudsman Service may take a different view about how to put things right for Mr P. He also highlighted that it was URVs responsibility to take active steps to 
resolve the situation. 
Im directing URV to settle the claim in full because:
The information URV has provided shows that there was some exchange of emails 
between October and December 2020. The final email indicates that the hospital 
was willing to provide a 10% discount but that payment would need to be made by 
the end of that month. URV didnt dispute our investigators findings on that point 
and its not provided any evidence of further correspondence. 
Based on the evidence thats available to me theres been very limited steps taken to 
resolve this matter. And between December 2020 and May 2022, when Mr P 
complained again to the Financial Ombudsman Service, theres no evidence of any 
action having been taken. 
 I dont think URV has entered into meaningful negotiation or taken enough proactive 
steps to bring this matter to a close. In reaching that conclusion I bear in mind the 
outstanding balance is over $200,000 and the claim dates back to 2017. 
URV has provided some limited data related to the hospital where Mr P was treated 
which, they suggest, demonstrates the bill is inflated. But theyve not provided any 
persuasive or compelling evidence as to why this data establishes a credible 
benchmark for the cost of Mr Ps treatment. So, I dont think URV has demonstrated 
that this is a reasonable starting point for settling the invoice or that it is persuasive 
evidence of overcharging by the hospital.   
Given that the claim dates back to October 2017 it means that almost five years has 
passed since Mr P first sought medical treatment. So, when an impasse was 
reached in December 2020 I think URV could have done more. They had a range of 
options which include, but arent limited to, settling the matter via the courts, 
involving an expert or seeking alternative dispute resolution. Based on the evidence 
available to me, none of those options have been explored.  
The worry of resolving this significant outstanding bill has weighed heavily on Mr Ps 
mind since then. Hes explained this has impacted his mental health and his 
relationship with family members. Hes also said that its caused him a lot of worry 
and anxiety. 
I dont think URV have treated Mr P fairly and considered his interests as well as their 
own. I think Mr P had could reasonably have expected URV to settle his medical bills 
within a reasonable time frame and, again, that hasnt happened. 
Putting things right
URV need to put things right by settling the two outstanding invoices in full. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right in the way 
Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman