DRN-2678713
The complaint
Mr M complains that Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank wont refund a payment 
he says he didnt make.
What happened
Mr M disputes a payment for £17.03 made from his account using his debit card on 4 
December 2020. He says he was at home at the time with the card in his possession. And 
that the location of the business involved, a pub, was a considerable distance from his house 
and wouldnt have been open during the coronavirus related lockdown in his area. 
Northern Bank said it wouldnt be refunding the money. The payment was a contactless one 
and required the card to be present. It said that the narrative against the payment doesnt 
always confirm the location of the premises involved or the type of business. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he had seen 
evidence from Northern Bank showing that this payment was made with Mr Ms card. He 
didnt think it likely that someone else could have taken it and then replaced it without Mr M 
realising. And a fraudster in possession of the card would likely have tried to make as much 
use of it as quickly as possible. And that would apply if a card had somehow been cloned. 
He repeated what Northern Bank said which was that the reference for the payment wasnt a 
definitive guide to the location of the merchant. And so, for similar reasons the evidence     
Mr M had provided about the location of his phone couldnt assist and nor did that show that 
the card was at the same location as the phone. He concluded that Mr M had either made 
the payment himself or allowed someone else to make it using his card.
Mr M didnt agree. He said that he believed that cards could be cloned, and the investigator 
had indicated that this might be possible. He believed he had complied with his obligations 
as a payment user by notifying Northern Bank of the unauthorised use of his details and that 
he had taken reasonable steps to keep those details secure. Mr M said that if he had been 
making a false claim then why would he bother for this amount  if a fraudster wouldnt. And 
the fraudster might have been trying a test payment to see if it was noticed. He reiterated 
that even if he had wanted to he was prevented due to restrictions from visiting a pub or 
travelling on what would have been a 20-mile journey to the location involved. He noticed 
this payment as it stood out and he relied on his phone tracking information showing he was 
in his own part of town. He and his wife had been strictly complying with the lockdown and 
hadnt had contact with others. Mr M said he was perplexed by the transaction and his trust 
in contactless payments was undermined and he was concerned to be told that he was at 
fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated.. And if it wasnt authorised Mr M wouldnt generally be 
responsible for it
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card used for these 
payments?
- Did Mr M either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the card as Northern Bank says?
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and Im thinking about what is most likely. 
Ive seen the information about the authentication of this disputed payment. A contactless 
payment is made when the chip is read. The record here is that the card details were those 
of Mr Ms and were used the next day for a genuine contactless payment. We havent seen 
evidence of the chip on a card being cloned for everyday use. And this payment wasnt 
carried out on one of Mr Ms cancelled cards  something he provided an article about and 
he said he was concerned at the limited checks with contactless payments. 
I cant know exactly how a fraudster would behave. But if as Mr M says a small test payment 
was made then by the next day he had made a genuine payment. He also spotted this 
payment and reported it  something that would always be a risk to a fraudster. I understand 
his point too about why he would dispute a relatively small amount.
In my view the narrative against this payment entry has been a significant distraction here. 
As Northern Bank has said thats not definitive of the location or actual type of business 
trading. And thats especially because as Mr M says pubs werent allowed to be open at that 
time. Frankly it isnt possible to say what the location of that payment was. Only that it was to 
this merchant using Mr Ms card details.
For similar reasons his phone tracking information isnt definitive either. That cant prove 
where the card was. And it still may not be inconsistent with the card and Mr M being at the 
actual location of the merchants card terminal.
I know Mr M thinks it unlikely someone could have taken his card and then would have gone 
to the risk of replacing it in his home. And there is no one as he says who had access to do 
so at this time.
I also know Mr M is concerned about the security of the contactless system and that he isnt 
being believed here. As I say I can only consider what I think is most likely here that isnt that 
an unknown third party or even someone close to him was able to take and use his card and 
replace it without him knowing. That only leaves him either consenting to this payment or 
allowing someone to use his card as most likely here. And so, it was reasonable for Northern 
Bank to hold him responsible for this payment. I fully understand how dissatisfied he will be 
with my conclusions. My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman