DRN-3649422
The complaint
F, a limited company, complains that TSB Bank plc wont reimburse the loss it suffered when 
it sent money to one of its customers accounts as the result of an email interception scam. 
Its also unhappy that TSB Bank have not shared the recipient accountholders details. 
F is represented in this complaint by Mr M, the companys director, and a legal 
representative. But for ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to F throughout my decision. And any 
reference to F includes the comments and actions of its representatives unless otherwise 
specified.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail. But I will provide an overview of the events below.
In April 2021 F sent a payment of €50,043.80 from its account held with a German bank to 
an account held with TSB Bank. At the time F believed the payment was to a Greek 
company called  B. It later learned Bs emails had been hacked and the account details on 
the invoice had been changed. So instead of crediting Bs account the payment credited an 
unknown third-party account held with TSB Bank. F reported this to its own bank, who 
notified TSB Bank, who said no funds remained to be returned.
F complained to TSB Bank who did not uphold its complaint. It said that it hadnt done 
anything wrong and had attempted to recover all the money it could on being advised of the 
fraud. It also explained that it could not, disclose to F, information about the recipient 
accountholder as doing so would breach its obligations under the Data Protection Act 2018 
(the DPA). 
F referred its complaint to our service. Our Investigator didnt recommend it should be 
upheld. In short, she didnt think there were any failures by TSB Bank which caused or 
contributed to the loss. F remained unhappy and asked for an Ombudsman to review its 
complaint. 
The case was passed to me. On reviewing the file, I agreed with our Investigators outcome, 
but I thought it would be helpful for me to share with F more detailed reasoning for why I 
couldnt uphold its complaint. I wrote to both F and TSB Bank explaining my thoughts. In 
summary I said:
- An account that is later found to have been utilised fraudulently doesnt automatically 
entitle any victims who were tricked into sending funds to that account to a refund of 
their losses. I can only fairly direct TSB Bank to refund Fs losses if Im satisfied it 
reasonably failed to prevent those or did something wrong where it would be fair to 
ask it to provide a refund.
-Account opening             
TSB Bank has shared with our service copies of the proof of identity and address 
verification documents it obtained, and evidence of the checks it carried out as part of 
the account opening process. It has also shared the information it gathered at 
account opening about the intended and expected use of the account. Im satisfied 
the checks TSB Bank completed were in line with its regulatory obligations and from 
what Ive seen, at the time, it couldnt have reasonably known that the account it was 
opening would later be used to receive fraudulently obtained funds. So, it follows that 
I dont think there is any reason, based on the opening of the account, to ask 
TSB Bank to do more here.
-Account monitoring                                                                                                   
TSB Banks obligation under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs) is 
to credit the account identified in the payment instruction. At the time the payment 
was made, there was no requirement, on receipt of a payment, for TSB Bank to 
check whether their accountholders name matched the named beneficiary on the 
payment instruction. The PSRs set out that a payment is sent and received according 
to a unique identifier. This is the key information used to route the payment to the 
correct destination. The PSRs define a unique identifier as follows:
unique identifier means a combination of letters, numbers or symbols specified 
to the payment service user by the payment service provider and to be provided by 
the payment service user in relation to a payment transaction in order to identify 
unambiguously one or both of 
(a) another payment service user who is a party to the payment transaction; 
(b) the other payment service users payment account
For international payments this is typically the international bank account number 
(IBAN). Other information may be provided as part of the payment instruction, but 
this is not part of the unique identifier, unless it has been specified as such by the 
payment service provider (PSP)  which is not the case here.
A payee name is not unique. A PSP could hold multiple accounts for persons with the 
same name, however, no two payment accounts share the same account number 
and sort-code (or IBAN)  this is unique to that specific payment account. Therefore, 
typically these details (not a payees name) are considered the unique identifier.
Section 90 of the PSRs states:
(1) Where a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the 
payment order is deemed to have been correctly executed by each payment service 
provider involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee specified 
by the unique identifier
The impact of this is that as long as the receiving PSP processes the payment 
transaction in accordance with the unique identifier provided and the funds are 
credited to the specified IBAN, the payment is considered to be executed correctly.I appreciate F feels strongly that a difference in the named beneficiary on the 
payment instruction and the name the recipient account was held in should have 
been picked up by TSB Bank. And to have not identified this, is a clear failure on its 
part and any anti-fraud policy it may allegedly have. I also note Fs comments 
regarding information it was given by another UK retail bank, who it says advised 
them, that it would have picked up a name mismatch on an incoming SWIFT 
payment. But ultimately, as there was not a requirement under the relevant 
regulations (the PSRs) for TSB Bank to do so, I can't fairly say that it did anything 
wrong at the time of processing the payment by not checking whether the 
beneficiarys name provided as part of the overall payment instruction matched that 
of the named accountholder.
Ive reviewed the statements for the account which received Fs funds and 
considering its expected and intended use, I dont think that the arrival of Fs 
payment, nor the movement of those funds out of the account would have given 
TSB Bank cause for concern in a way that Id say it ought to have intervened. So, I 
dont think TSB Bank missed an opportunity to prevent Fs loss in this way either.
-Recovery and response                                                                                              
Im satisfied Fs funds had been spent before TSB Bank received notification of fraud 
from its bank  so there was nothing remaining that it could return. Whilst there is no 
obligation on TSB Bank to do so, I can see that it did, on a best endeavours basis, try 
to assist with the recovery of the money F paid to its customers account by 
contacting other financial businesses where the money had been transferred to. I can 
see some responded to say no funds remained and others simply did not respond. 
So overall, I dont think there were any failings by TSB Bank relating to how it 
responded to the notification of fraud that impacted the recovery of Fs money.
-Disclosure of information                                                                                                
I can absolutely see how, to the victim of a scam, it would feel unfair that an 
individual who may have acted dishonestly and criminally is protected by privacy 
rights. But data controllers such as TSB Bank are required to comply with the 
principles under the DPA and UKs General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR). 
And if they do not have a lawful basis for holding and processing personal data 
(which includes disclosing that information to a third party) they will be in breach of 
the DPA and UK GDPR, and any individual whose privacy rights have been affected 
may have a number of rights against them. I appreciate F would like to know details 
about the recipient accountholder and where the money went. I also note in later 
submissions it has been suggested that TSB Bank not sharing this information, has 
hindered Fs ability to recover its money. But from what Ive seen TSB Bank did not 
have a legal basis upon which it could share this information directly with F. So I cant 
say that it has done anything wrong, nor can it fairly be concluded that its actions 
have impacted Fs ability to recover its losses.
I appreciate F says it asked for this information in good faith and to help law 
enforcement catch those responsible. But this isnt a basis upon which I can tell 
TSB Bank to share a third-partys personal data. It also isnt TSB Banks 
responsibility to report the matter to the police. TSB Bank themselves havent been a 
victim of crime, F has  so it would be for F, if it chooses, to report the matter to the 
police. And Im confident TSB Bank would co-operate with any police investigation  
including the sharing of any information if they were to request it.I asked both parties to send me any further comments and/or information they want me to 
consider. TSB Bank didnt respond. F commented on the need for regulatory requirements 
on banks to be tightened to help tackle fraud. It also asked for a written final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Understandably F feels strongly about the need for regulatory change, and I note it thinks 
that regardless of what the regulation may say, TSB Bank ought to have more robust 
procedures in place to check other information (not just an IBAN) provided on the payment 
instruction matches the information it holds about the recipient account. But my role requires 
me to consider whether TSB Bank has acted in line with the regulatory obligations placed 
upon it at the material time. And if it has, I can't fairly say it has done anything wrong. Our 
service's function is limited to resolving individual disputes between eligible complainants 
and regulated financial businesses. We aren't the regulator and do not have the power to 
punish or fine a financial business nor can we tell them to change their processes. 
As neither party has provided any new evidence or comments for me to consider, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome Ive previously explained.
Im sorry to hear F has lost so much money to a scam. But having carefully considered 
everything I dont think TSB Bank are responsible for Fs loss, nor have they hindered its 
recovery. Im also satisfied TSB Bank responded appropriately to a request for disclosure of 
third-party personal data. So it follows that there isnt a fair and reasonable basis upon which 
I can tell them to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman