DRN-2551472
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC (UK) PLC (HSBC) closed his account, without giving him 
advance notice and registered a fraud marker against his name.
Mr W brings this complaint on behalf of his business, J Limited. 
What happened
On 27 April 2020, HSBC wrote to Mr W saying it no longer wished to provide him with 
banking services and was closing his account. It suspended his account pending the 
closure, and sent him a cheque for the account balance three days later.
When Mr W tried to open a new account in order to cash the cheque, he found banks were 
declining his applications. He then discovered HSBC had registered a fraud marker against 
his name with the fraud prevention agency, CIFAS. Mr W complained to HSBC. He wanted 
HSBC to remove the CIFAS marker, explain why they closed his account, and pay him 
compensation.
HSBC rejected Mr Ws complaint, so he came to our service. Our investigator said HSBC 
was entitled to close Mr Ws account in the way it did. But she thought HSBC should remove 
the CIFAS marker and pay Mr W £150 in compensation.
HSBC accepted our investigators outcome and arranged for the CIFAS marker to be 
removed three days later. Mr W thought HSBC should have to pay him more compensation.
He said hed been declined credit and had applications for bank accounts rejected. And that 
he had to borrow money from his sister, as he wasnt able to obtain finance elsewhere. Mr W 
also said he wanted written confirmation that HSBC was at fault, so he can show it to 
companies he works with, to prove his innocence.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to issue a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block and closure
Im satisfied HSBC acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked and 
closed Mr Ws account. And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and 
conditions that govern the relationship between HSBC and Mr W.
I understand why Mr W wants to know why HSBC blocked his account, and Ive no doubt 
being deprived of access to his account caused him inconvenience, particularly given the 
restrictions on movement during the national lockdown.
But, in order to compensate Mr W for any distress and inconvenience he experienced, I 
would have to say that HSBC acted unfairly or took action that it was not entitled to take. 
And, under HSBCs terms and conditions, it is entitled to block payments and services in 
certain situations, without giving a reason for doing so, and without giving notice. That 
doesnt mean that Mr W has engaged in any unlawful activities, just that HSBC no longer 
wants him as a customer.
Having looked at the evidence, I can see no basis on which I might make an award against 
HSBC. And I am satisfied it complied with its own procedures when it blocked and reviewed 
Mr Ws account. So, Im not going to ask it to compensate him for any distress and 
inconvenience this may have caused.
CIFAS marker
HSBC has explained to our service why it registered a CIFAS marker against Mr W. And its 
provided evidence in support of its decision to do so. However, its worth noting HSBC 
agreed to remove the marker after our investigator issued her opinion. Thats noteworthy 
because our investigators opinions are not legally binding and financial businesses are 
entitled to, and regularly do, ask for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh, if they do 
not agree with the investigators outcome. 
Banks take concerns of fraudulent activity very seriously (they are obliged to do so by strict 
regulations) and I would not expect a bank to accept an investigators opinion on a matter 
such as this, without asking for an ombudsmans final decision, if it had serious concerns 
about fraud.
Had HSBC not removed the marker though, I would have told it do so in this decision. I 
havent seen anything to justify applying a CIFAS marker against Mr W and, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I consider HSBC made a mistake in doing so.
Mr W also said he has concerns that his reputation will be damaged as some companies 
may think theres no smoke without fire. Mr W hasnt expanded on what companies may 
have concerns, or why that would be the case. But I accept thats an understandable 
concern. So, Mr W can show this final decision to any such parties to demonstrate the 
correct position.
Compensation
I should start by saying that because J Limited is a separate legal entity to Mr W, I can only 
make an award for inconvenience experienced by the company, and not Mr W. So, while I 
can compensate J Limited for the inconvenience of the time one of its Directors spent away 
from the business, I cant compensate it for frustration Mr W experienced personally in 
speaking to HSBC, or in taking care of his finances.
I can take damage to reputation into account when I make awards, but I have to consider all 
of the circumstances of the particular case. 
In this instance, I accept the possibility the CIFAS marker would have caused some damage 
to J Limiteds credibility. But I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that T Limited 
suffered any lasting damage. Mr W was able to open other accounts, albeit not necessarily 
his first choices, and he wont experience any further difficulties as a result of the CIFAS 
marker.I recognise what Mr W says about time spent in dealing with various matters surrounding 
this issue. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I cant take into account the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced personally. And I agree the inconvenience caused to J 
Limited by the time Mr W spent resolving matters wasnt sufficient to justify a higher award 
than the £150 our investigator suggested.
Im sorry this isnt the outcome Mr W hoped for. But I hope he will understand that Im not 
seeking to downplay the distress Mr W experienced: Im simply saying I cant take that into 
account when deciding to award compensation to a limited company.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right, HSBC should pay 
Mr W £150. And remove the CIFAS marker registered against him, if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman