DRN-2874013
The complaint
Miss W complains about her interest only mortgage with NRAM Limited. She says the 
mortgage was mis-sold, and that NRAM failed to assist her when she realised she would be 
unable to repay the capital, leading to her selling the property. She also complains about the 
interest rate charged on the mortgage.
What happened
Miss W took out her mortgage in 2003 with NRAMs predecessor, Northern Rock. She 
borrowed £490,000 on an interest only basis over 25 years. In 2005 she increased her 
borrowing to around £517,000. The mortgage was on a fixed rate until October 2007, when it 
reverted to the standard variable rate (SVR). According to the mortgage offer, it was due to 
move onto a loyalty discount rate (0.25% below SVR) in 2012. In fact, however, the loyalty 
rate wasnt implemented until 2016.
In 2006, Miss W took further borrowing of £60,000, also on interest only terms. This part of 
the mortgage was at a discount rate of 0.85% below SVR throughout.
In 2018, NRAM identified that the loyalty discount rate on the main part of the mortgage had 
been applied too late, and it refunded around £10,500 in overcharged interest. Miss W 
redeemed the mortgage later that year.
In 2020, Miss W made this complaint. She said the mortgage was mis-sold, because it was 
sold without advising her that she would need a repayment strategy, or any consideration of 
how it would be repaid. She complained that different interest rates were charged on 
different parts of her mortgage, and that the interest rates were too high compared to falls in 
the Bank of England base rate. 
NRAM didnt uphold her complaint. It said it hadnt sold the original mortgage  it had been 
sold by a broker  and the later increases in borrowing were done without advice. In any 
case, it said, complaints about the sale and increases in borrowing were out of time. 
NRAM said the mortgage had operated in line with the terms and conditions, which set out 
the applicable interest rate. It said that when the loyalty discount rate should have taken 
effect Miss W was in arrears on the mortgage  and the terms of the offer said that the 
loyalty rate was only applicable if the mortgage was up to date. And in any case it had 
already paid redress for delays in implementing the loyalty discount.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to set out my preliminary thoughts on the complaint. I 
explained that the mortgage was sold by a broker, not NRAM, though NRAM was 
responsible for the lending decisions. But I thought that part of Miss Ws complaint was out 
of time. I also thought the complaint about the interest rate could only be considered for the 
six years before Miss W complained.
In respect of the part of the complaint I could consider, I said:
Once Northern Rock collapsed and was nationalised, with its loans moving to NRAM, 
it was no longer able to offer new interest rates. All its borrowers moved on to the 
SVR (subject sometimes, as in this case, to discounts) once their fixed rates expired.
In not being offered new fixed rates, therefore, Miss W was in the same position as 
all NRAMs other customers and wasnt treated unfairly compared to other 
customers.
While NRAMs SVR was higher than the fixed rates other active lenders offered, the 
SVR was similar to the SVR rates offered by other lenders. The SVR didnt track the 
Bank of England base rate and wasnt directly related to it. Base rate was one of the 
things  but not the only thing  that NRAM took into account when setting the SVR. 
Its not therefore unfair that the SVR was higher than base rate.
Taking everything into account, I dont think NRAM charged Miss W an unfair rate of 
interest.
And while NRAM didnt apply the loyalty rate to Miss Ws mortgage until 2016, it has 
put that right in the way I would expect  by re-working her mortgage as if the loyalty 
rate had been put in place when it should have been. 
The problem with the loyalty rate meant that Miss W had paid too much interest each 
month, because the rate was too high. When it identified that, NRAM used the 
amount Miss W had overpaid by to reduce the mortgage balance, and paid her 8% 
interest on that amount direct.
But I think NRAM should have given Miss W the option of having the overpayments 
refunded to her. They were payments that  had things gone right  she would never 
have made. Shes already been paid interest to compensate her for being out of 
pocket. 
If the mortgage hadnt been redeemed, I would have asked NRAM to give Miss W 
the option of having these overpayments refunded to her, as they are payments she 
shouldnt have been required to make. But as she redeemed the mortgage in 2018, 
thats not applicable here  since Miss W has already had the benefit of the 
overpayments, in that her redemption balance was lower because of them. I dont 
therefore require NRAM to take any further action.
The responses to my provisional decision
NRAM accepted my provisional decision. 
Miss W said that NRAM might have treated all its customers the same in keeping them on a 
high interest rate  but it could be treating all its customers unfairly. 
She said that it was only in 2017 that she realised there was a problem  while she had 
received statements before then, she was not an expert and didnt realise there was 
something to complain about. In 2017 her father became ill, and they started to discuss her 
finances. Around the same time, NRAM threatened to repossess her property and she had 
to borrow from her father to clear arrears. All this led her to look carefully at her mortgage. 
Late in 2017, Miss Ws father passed away, and she said that after that her priorities were 
not on her mortgage. The review in 2018 shows that NRAM werent managing the mortgage properly. And it 
meant that for the years since 2012 she had overpaid on her mortgage, taking away money 
she needed for other things, and causing her problems with other debts. Had NRAM 
refunded the overpayments, she could have used the money to help with those debts and 
improve her credit rating, which still causes her problems now. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the loss of Miss Ws father, and everything that shes been through. 
But Im afraid it doesnt change my view about part of her complaint being out of time. The 
last lending decision was in 2006, which meant the six year time limit for complaining expired 
in 2012. I dont think the three year limit gives Miss W more time to complain, since she had 
enough information for it to be reasonable for her to have been aware of cause for complaint 
soon after the mortgage was taken out. And Miss W was aware of the interest rate she was 
charged throughout the life of the mortgage, not least from her annual statements.
That means the complaint about the lending decision was out of time from 2012. And we 
cant consider the interest rate before 2014. And so it follows that the difficult time she went 
through from 2017 wasnt something that prevented her from complaining before those 
deadlines expired.
In respect of the parts of the complaint I can consider, Im afraid I havent changed my mind. 
As Ive said, Miss W was treated in the same way as all other NRAM customers  once their 
fixed rates expired, they moved on to the SVR as NRAM no longer offered fixed rates. This 
was something it couldnt do because of the terms of its bailout. Theres no regulatory or 
contractual obligation to offer new rates. And the SVR was comparable to the SVR of other 
lenders. So while I understand that Miss W was frustrated that she couldnt get a new rate 
with NRAM, and couldnt move her mortgage elsewhere, NRAM wasnt in breach of any of 
its obligations. And I dont think it treated her unfairly.
In respect of the loyalty discount, NRAM should have applied it sooner, and refunding the 
additional interest charged as a result was the right thing to do. But I dont think it made a 
significant difference to Miss Ws overall position that the interest rate was 0.25% higher 
than it should have been  Miss W had been in and out of arrears over the life of the 
mortgage, and I dont think the loyalty rate was the reason why she wasnt able to keep it up 
to date. It was a relatively small part of each monthly payment, and I think overall Miss W 
would have been in much the same position had it been applied correctly from the start. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman