DRN-1509815
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (when it was trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold 
him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1997. Mr R told us hed 
completed an application form for a Barclaycard in a Barclays branch and the policy was 
added to his card at the same time.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed. 
Mr R mainly says that the PPI wasnt explained to him and he took it out as he was told this 
was standard. He said that if hed realised that he didn't have to take it out then PPI isn't 
something he wouldve wanted to pay for. 
Mr R also told us he had adequate savings and death in service benefit through work  as 
well as sick pay. So he feels he was sufficiently covered without the PPI policy. 
Hes asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
I dont know what was discussed when Mr R arranged this credit card and the PPI. But 
I think Barclays made Mr R aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. The 
application form he completed had Yes and No PPI options. So Mr R wouldve known it 
was up to him to say if he wanted PPI. 
And I think Mr R wouldve understood this at the time (even if understandably hes forgotten 
now). I say this because when presented with Yes and No tick boxes for another option 
that was offered with the card, Mr R ticked the No box to say he didn't want to do that.  
Although Ive only seen a poor quality copy of the application form, it looks to me like the 
Yes box for PPI is marked on the form Mr R signed. So, I think its likely he decided at the 
time that PPI would be useful and he chose to add it to his Barclaycard.  
Barclays says it advised Mr R to take out PPI and, looking at the likely policy terms that 
wouldve applied, I think it was suitable for him. Mr R was eligible for the policy. He mentioned that he wouldve had between 3 and 6 months 
sick pay from his employer if he was off work sick. But the policy wouldve paid more than 
his minimum credit card repayments for longer than this - up to 12 months per claim in the 
event of accident or sickness  and on top of any work benefits. As Mr R mightve also had 
some additional costs if he was too unwell to go back to work or disabled, I think this 
couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
The policy wouldve also protected Mr Rs credit card repayments if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Although he was eligible for death in service benefit from his employer, PPI provided a 
different sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances.
Ive also taken into account that Mr R had some savings at the time. But I dont know if he 
wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to make a claim. And the policy paid 
out for longer than its likely the amount of savings hes mentioned would've lasted if hed 
had to rely on these to cover outgoings when he was unable to work.  
So I think PPI offered Mr R worthwhile benefits in his particular circumstances.  
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if Mr R was affected by 
this. So I dont think its likely that having more information about things the policy didn't 
cover wouldve put him off taking it out.
Its possible some of the information Barclays gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr R chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he 
appears to have wanted it at the time, even if hes forgotten this now. The policy seems to 
have been affordable for him  and he couldve cancelled it at any time if his circumstances 
changed or he didnt want to pay for it.
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered him, I think it unlikely Mr R wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think hed still have 
taken out the policy. So I dont find hes lost out as a result of anything Barclays did wrong  
and theres nothing it needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman