DRN-2864448
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as L have complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance claim after they were forced 
to close due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr E, a director of L, has brought the complaint on Ls behalf. L have also provided 
comments from a representative, but for ease of reading Ill refer to all actions and 
comments as being those of Mr E or L. 
What happened
L hold a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. They claimed on their policy for 
business interruption and deterioration of stock after they were required to close due to the 
Governments actions in response to Covid-19 and because Mr E was required to shield. 
 
RSA turned down Ls claim because it said Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property and 
while the policy did cover closure due to a notifiable disease at their business premises, L 
hadnt indicated that anyone at their premises had Covid-19. RSA also said the policy didnt 
cover the deterioration of Ls stock because it excluded cover where the stock had 
deteriorated gradually. 
 
L were unhappy with RSAs response and brought the complaint to our service. They said 
theyd been required to close by the Government, due to Covid-19 and because Mr E was 
required to shield. So, they thought RSA should cover their claim. 
  
While Ls complaint was with our service RSA said it had reconsidered their claim following 
the Supreme Court judgment on the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case. But in order for 
the claim to be covered, RSA said L would need to have had a case of Covid-19 at their 
business premises. As L hadnt indicated that there was a case of Covid-19 at their 
premises, RSA maintained that it had acted correctly in turning down their claim. 
Our investigator looked into Ls complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
RSA had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He 
thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case 
manifesting itself at the premises. And as there hadnt been a case of Covid-19 at the 
premises, the claim wasnt covered. He thought it was also reasonable for RSA to say the 
business interruption claim wasnt covered under the extension for denial of access as 
Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property and that the circumstances of their stock 
deterioration claim werent covered under the policy. 
L asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said many people were asymptomatic so there 
might have been someone at their premises who had Covid-19. They said the use of the 
word manifesting in the extension indicated that it should be considered using its dictionary 
definition, to mean something being made evident or that showed plainly. They also felt that 
they had done the right thing in closing, as required by the Government, and that RSA 
wasnt treating them fairly in refusing to pay either their business interruption or stock 
deterioration claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ls business. But I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.  
 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to 
see if RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Ls claim.  
Denial of Access and Loss of Attraction 
This extension covers:
Damage to Property in the vicinity of the Premises by any of the
insured Events which
A) hinders or prevents the use of the Premises or access to
them or
B) causes a fall in the number of customers attracted to the
vicinity of the Premises whether the Property used by You
for the purpose of the Business shall be damaged or not.
 
Damage is defined in the policy as Accidental loss, destruction or damage.
For this extension to provide cover there would need to accidental loss, destruction or 
damage to property in the vicinity of Ls premises which hindered or prevented the use of, or 
access to, Ls premises or caused a fall in the number of customers attracted to the vicinity 
of their premises. As I havent seen anything to indicate Covid-19 caused damage to 
property in the vicinity of Ls premises, which hindered or prevented the use of, or access to, 
Ls premises or caused a fall in the number of customers attracted to the vicinity of their 
premises, I dont think this extension provides cover for the circumstances of their claim. 
Disease
The relevant part of this extension covers:
 
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the 
Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the Premises 
 
For this extension to provide cover, the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on 
the business premises to have been the result of a case of the notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the premises. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially 
rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that theyve suffered a loss their policy covers.
L didnt identify anyone at their premises with Covid-19 and said theyd been required to 
close due to the Governments response to the pandemic and because Mr E was required to 
shield. L said it would be difficult to know if anyone at the premises had Covid-19, as many people 
were asymptomatic. I appreciate that many people were asymptomatic, but there were also 
many people who didnt contract Covid-19. L havent identified anyone at their premises as 
having Covid-19, so I dont think I can fairly conclude that there was most likely a case 
manifesting at their premises.
I have also considered Ls point that the use of the word manifesting suggests something 
that is evident or shown plainly. But while the effects of the Governments response to 
Covid-19 might be evident or shown plainly at Ls premises  in that they were required to 
close  I dont think that indicates that there was a case of Covid-19 manifesting itself at Ls 
premises, which is what the extension would require in order to provide cover. So, I dont 
think this extension provides cover for Ls claim either. 
Deterioration of Stock
RSA said it considered Ls claim for deterioration of stock under any other accident. 
However, this term of the policy has an exclusion for gradual deterioration. As the stock 
seems to have become unusable over time, I think it was fair for RSA to rely on this 
exclusion.
Ls policy also covers the purification or deterioration of food and stock in the cold chamber 
due to either a rise or fall in temperature or the escape of refrigeration fumes. I havent seen 
anything to indicate that the stock deteriorated due to either a rise or fall in temperature or 
escaped refrigeration fumes, so I dont think this provides cover for the circumstances of Ls 
claim.   
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mr E, but having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Ls claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman