DRN-3432938
The complaint
Mr B complains that, when he entered into a hire purchase agreement with  FirstRand Bank 
Limited, he was not given any alternative finance options. He says too that the price he 
received when he returned the car was less than it should have been. Ill refer to FirstRand 
Bank Limited  as Motonovo. 
What happened
In August 2017 Mr B entered into a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo for a car to be 
supplied by a dealership, Y, which was also the credit intermediary. Under the terms of the 
agreement, Mr B was to pay a deposit of £6,500, followed by 49 monthly payments of £595 
and, if he then wanted to keep the car, a final payment of £21,757.60. 
If Mr B did not want to keep the car, he would not have to pay the cars Guaranteed Future 
Value of £21,756.60  as long as it was returned in a reasonable state. 
MotoNovos statement of Mr Bs account show that he made the monthly payments in full 
until about April 2020. From about May 2018 they were made late, incurring a small 
additional interest charge (less than £1 a month). Mr B has explained that his income fell as 
a result of Covid-19 and that he then had difficulty paying. 
Payments stopped after April 2020. Nearly £8,000 was written off in April 2021, and a 
payment of £22,960 was credited to the account in the same month. After adjustments, 
£5,996.25 was transferred to recoveries. Mr B entered into a debt management plan, 
arranged through a debt charity, and paid £150.89 to MotoNovo to reduce the outstanding 
balance on the account. 
Mr B complained to MotoNovo in December 2021 about the options he had been given in 
August 2017 and about the price obtained for the car when the hire purchase agreement 
ended.    
MotoNovo said that there was no evidence that Mr B had not been given other options in 
August 2017. It did not think it had acted unfairly. Mr B referred the matter to this service, but 
our investigator broadly agreed with MotoNovo. Mr B did not accept the investigators 
assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main part of Mr Bs complaint is that he was only offered one option for financing the 
car. MotoNovo says that there is no evidence of that. Evidence that other options were 
discussed might include, for example, notes of discussions about those options. The fact 
that there is no evidence of any such discussions is, therefore, consistent with Mr Bs 
argument that he was only given one option. 
It is important to note however that any such discussions would have been with Y, the credit 
intermediary. MotoNovo would not necessarily have known about other options which Mr B 
might have discussed with Y. Y did however act as MotoNovos agent, so MotoNovo is 
responsible for its acts or omissions.  
Mr B says that he should have been given options other than the hire purchase agreement 
he signed in August 2017. MotoNovos obligations towards him were however rather more 
limited than that. It was not acting as his financial adviser and had no duty to provide him 
with the most suitable financing option. That does not mean of course that it owed him no 
duty at all. Under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the rules and guidance set out in 
CONC (the Consumer Credit sourcebook, that part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Handbook dealing with consumer credit), it had to ensure that the main terms of the hire 
purchase agreement were made available to him before he signed it and that adequate 
explanations of its features were provided. 
The documents provided to Mr B included pre-contractual explanations which explained, for 
example, how long the agreement would last, what payments Mr B needed to make and 
when, the interest rate, the consequences of missing payments, and Mr Bs right to withdraw 
from the agreement. I am satisfied they met the necessary legislative and regulatory 
requirements.       
The agreement Mr B signed included a relatively high final payment if he wanted to keep the 
car. That meant that the monthly payments were lower than would otherwise have been the 
case. Such agreements may be suitable for customers who intend to part-exchange a car at 
the end of the hire purchase period. They may be less suitable for customers who want to 
keep the car. However, as I have explained, MotoNovos obligation was to ensure that Mr B 
was given proper information about the agreement he signed, not to address all possible 
options with him.  
I turn then to the credit provided when Mr B returned the car. He says that the car was in 
immaculate condition and that he had upgraded the wheels before he returned it. The 
market price was, he says, higher than the amount he received. 
Mr B did however receive the price which MotoNovo had guaranteed it would pay. At the 
time Mr B returned the car, he had missed several payments, and MotoNovo had agreed to 
accept significantly reduced monthly payments to enable Mr B to pay off the outstanding 
debt at an affordable rate. The account statements indicate too that nearly £8,000 was 
written off the debt. 
In the circumstances, I do not believe that MotoNovo has acted unfairly towards Mr B. It 
recognised that he was having difficulty making payments due under the hire purchase 
agreement and made concessions to assist him. I am satisfied too that it acted in line with its 
obligations and with the hire purchase agreement.  My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require FirstRand Bank Limited to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman