DRN-2856517
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS or 
the lender) was irresponsible to have agreed credit for him.
What happened
MBFS agreed credit for Mr M in December 2017 in order for him to acquire a car. The 
cash price of the car was £30,094 (including fees and discounts). The total amount 
owed under the finance agreement (including interest and fees) came to £34,361. Mr 
M paid a deposit of £809, and the remainder was to be repaid over 48 monthly 
instalments of £429 with a final optional payment of £12,950 plus purchase fee of £10 
(Ive rounded figures to the nearest pound).
The finance was granted under a hire purchase agreement meaning Mr M had the 
option to purchase the car once hed met his monthly repayments. MBFS remained 
the vehicle owner until that point and Mr M was, in essence, paying for the use of it. 
He also had the option of voluntarily terminating the agreement and returning the car. 
This option would limit his total liability to half the amount owing, in other words 
£17,181, if hed taken reasonable care of the car.
Mr M says that MBFS should not have agreed credit for him as the repayments took up a 
large proportion of his monthly income and were unaffordable. Mr M also says that he 
never intended to purchase the car but to make his hire payments and return it.
MBFS says that the affordability checks completed at the time were satisfactory to confirm 
responsible lending. It also says that Mr M met his repayments for two years without 
difficulty, that the car was an expensive new model and if the repayments were a concern 
for him at the outset he could have chosen a cheaper model.
Mr M missed payments in March and April 2020 and a default notice was issued in May 
2020. At that point, Mr M made contact with MBFS and the customer contact notes say 
that he was made aware of his termination options and payment support.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and recommended that it be 
upheld because she found the repayments were unaffordable and that MBFS were 
irresponsible to have agreed to lend to him.
In order to put things right she recommended that MBFS end the agreement, with nothing 
left for Mr M to repay. By that point Mr M had paid a total of £12,441 in addition to his 
deposit and had missed three payments. Our investigator also recommended that MBFS 
return Mr Ms deposit (along with compensatory interest) but found that it was reasonable 
for the lender to retain all of the payments hed made as hed had the use of the car 
throughout.
MBFS didnt accept this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to 
an ombudsman to review and resolve.
As of the end of February 2021, Mr M had paid 29 out of the 38 monthly payments owed 
up to that point, in other words £12,441 out of £16,302. MBFS had put his account on hold 
while his complaint remained unresolved with this Service. It offered to end the agreement 
as voluntarily terminated if Mr M paid his arrears of £3,861 (9 payments of £429). Mr M 
didnt accept this as a resolution.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 May 2021 setting out why I thought Mr Ms complaint 
should not be upheld. I wont set out the detail here as I have attached my provisional 
decision in an appendix to this document and it forms part of this final decision. In 
summary, I provisionally concluded that MBFS didnt carry out reasonable and 
preoportionate checks when Mr M applied for finance. I also provisionally concluded that, 
had the lender done so, it wouldnt have declined to lend to Mr M because it was likely to 
have understood that he had the means to meet his repayments.
Neither party has accepted my provisional decision. MBFS agreed with the outcome but 
strongly disagreed that its checks were inadequate. It says that in this case MBFS felt that 
given its record of previous good dealings with Mr M and his excellent credit profile, it could 
accept his signed assurance that the payments were affordable to him. The lender  also 
says that it met the regulatory requirements in place at the time and that I am holding it to 
the standard of the rules of today which, it says, require more detailed checks of a 
customers income and expenditure before making lending decisions. 
Mr M does not agree with the outcome I provisionally reached, and feels very strongly that 
MBFS should not have agreed credit for him and that hes suffered a financial loss 
because of this. Mr M said in response to my provisional decision that his income could 
not sustain such a high repayment, that he had no other source of income or pension, and 
wasnt allowed to amend his agreement with MBFS when he requested this some ten 
months after its inception. 
I understand that MBFS and Mr M agreed an early settlement figure of £20,512 on 12 May 
2021. Mr M says that he then sold the car but was left £2,000 out of pocket. He would like 
this to be refunded to him along with his deposit (£809) and compensatory interest. Mr M 
also would like the marker on his credit file to be removed and the agreement to be shown 
as settled. MBFS said the account was now recorded as settled, though any late payments 
would still show as such.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As before, I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. I have carefully considered what both parties have said in 
their responses to my provisional decision. 
Having done so, I remain of the view that everything didnt go as it should have when 
Mr M applied for credit but, had it done so, MBFS wouldnt have declined to lend to him. 
Neither party has provided any new information for me to consider but I will address their 
responses to my provisional decision.
MBFS says that I am holding it to a higher regulatory standard than was in place at the time. 
I want to reassure it that I am not. The lender quoted some of the regulations in place and 
says that it complied with these. I have borne these rules and guidance, and others, in mind 
when considering this decision. (The regulations governing consumer credit are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys consumer credit handbook and can be viewed here 
according to timeline: www.handbook.fca.org.uk /handbook/CONC.)
The specific rules MBFS mentioned in its response are CONC 5.2.3G, 5.2.4G, and 5.3.1G. 
MBFS says it took into account its record of previous dealings with Mr M, checked his credit 
score, and reviewed a credit reference agency report in concert with the information he 
provided. It says that this covered four out of the six pieces of information listed in CONC 
5.2.4G (3). CONC 5.2.4G(3) references guidance from the previous regulator (the Office of 
Fair Trading) which states explicitly that this isnt an exhaustive check list but, rather, a list of 
examples of the types and sources of information that might be appropriate, depending on 
the circumstances. So the fact that MBFS gathered some of this information doesnt of itself 
mean its checks should automatically be considered proportionate in all cases. 
Other rules and guidance in place at the time include the following: CONC 5.2.4G(2) which 
states that the risk of the credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of credit 
granted and the total charge for the credit relative to the customers financial situation; 
CONC 5.3.3G which states that a lender needs to take adequate steps to ensure that 
information it has is complete and correct; and CONC 5.2.1R(2) which states that a lender 
must take into account the information its aware of at the time the agreement is made in its 
assessment of the potential for the commitment to adversely impact the customers financial 
situation. And, of course, the overarching requirement on MBFS was to take account of 
Mr Ms interests and treat him fairly. 
MBFS says that its checks didnt raise any concerns, that had a long relationship with Mr M 
and was happy to accept his word that he could afford the repayments. I can understand 
MBFSs strength of feeling in this matter, given Mr M was a longstanding customer, and 
accept that its approach might well be appropriate in other circumstances. However, as I 
explained in my provisional decision, bearing all of the above regulations in mind, I didnt 
think it was appropriate in this case because:
While Mr M had previously managed an agreement with similar repayments, that had 
been taken out in 2013 and his financial and personal circumstances might have 
changed since then; and
It seems hed been in employment at that time and was now retired and so might not 
have the same means available to meet repayments; and
Mr Ms existing hire purchase agreement with MBFS had significantly lower monthly 
repayments of £236; and
The agreement was for four years with a repayment of £429. Mr Ms circumstances 
might change over that length of time and a greater understanding of his means 
might be appropriate here than, for example, for a shorter agreement with lower 
repayments. 
Mr M also disagrees strongly with my provisional conclusions. He said in his response 
that he didnt have the income to sustain the repayments and that, while its true that he 
transferred money from an account in the USA, he also transferred money back into that 
account and he had no net income from his property there. Mr M confirmed that he had no 
other source of income or pensions. 
Mr M also says he fails to understand why, when I have found that MBFS didnt carry out 
proportionate checks, I find in its favour. He feels that I must have been pressured by the 
business into not upholding the complaint in his favour because there would be wider 
implications for the business if I did so.
Let me start by saying that I can understand Mr Ms strength of feeling on this matter. He 
says hes lost out financially because of MBFSs actions and his credit file has been impacted. As Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Ive found that MBFSs 
checks werent appriopriate in the specific circumstances of this case, no more than this. 
Any wider perspectives on this matter are solely the preserve of the parties involved and 
have no bearing on my decision. 
Mr M says that it is inexplicable that I have found that MBFS didnt get everything right 
when it agreed to lend to him yet I didnt uphold his complaint. This Service can make 
awards for financial or non-financial loss where we find a consumer has lost out because 
of a businesss error or ommision. Such an award is not a fine or a penalty for wrong-
doing. It is to redress loss. In order to uphold Mr Ms complaint and make an award to put 
things right for him, I need to find that he has suffered a loss because of something 
MBFS got wrong and that he would not have done so but for that error. So I need to 
consider what would have happened, had that error not occurred. I provisionally 
concluded that, had MBFS looked into Mr Ms finances in more detail before lending to 
him, it would have continued with the agreement because it would have found he had 
sufficient means of repayment.. 
Mr M says that his income could not sustain such a high repayment. I agree with this and 
said in my provisional decision that I didnt think it was reasonable to conclude that the 
monthly repayments of £429 would be affordable for Mr M over the term of the agreement 
on the basis that his state pension was his sole means. However, as I also said in my 
provisional decision: The regulations in place at the time consider that a borrowers 
means include savings. In December 2017 Mr M had a balance of almost £20,000 in his 
current account. These funds were available to him in the sense that they were 
immediately accessible and also that they were not set aside for a specific purpose. 
Mr M hasnt commented on my findings in this regard and so I remain of the view that 
MBFS was likely to have found out through further checks that he had sufficient means to 
meet his repayments over the lifetime of the agreement. In other words, if everything had 
gone as I think it should have, Mr M would still have ended up entering into the agreement 
and it follows that I dont find MBFS was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to him
Mr M said that he took steps to reduce his payments in late 2018. He said that he visited a 
Mercedes dealership in October 2018 on the basis that he couldnt afford the payments of 
£429 a month and he agreed a new contract of £294 a month for a different car (including 
his current one in part-exchange) but that the finance was turned down. Mr M said in his 
original complaint that it probably showed MBFS hadnt gone through the proper financial 
checking in December 2017 as his income hadnt changed in the previous nine months. 
I addressed this point in my provisional decision: Mr M also says that he considered 
changing his car about that time and applied for finance with another lender. This had a 
lower monthly repayment but he was declined for credit. Mr M feels this shows that his 
agreement with MBFS wasnt affordable for him as his income hadnt changed in the 
intervening period. This application was with another lender, however, and I cant say it 
would have had the same lending criteria as MBFS or that his overall financial situation 
was similar at that time. 
Mr M said in his response to my provisional decision that he went to a Mercedes showroom 
in October 2018 to ask for an amended agreement. He says  the lender was proposed by 
the Mercedes garage in [-] and the bone of contention here is the basis of not allowing me to 
change to a cheaper agreement with MBFS. The garage at [-] decided to say I had been 
declined for finance when in fact they could simply have amended (substantially reduced my 
payments) my existing agreement with MBFS. There was absolutely no need to go to 
another lender. I dont know exactly what happened at the dealership. MBFS has said that it 
didnt decline Mr M for finance in October 2018. I havent seen any evidence to show Mr M spoke to MBFS about his agreement at that time and he continued to make his payments 
until early 2020. On balance, I dont think MBFS got something wrong or treated Mr M 
unfairly at that time. 
In summary, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint. This is my final decision on the matter 
and will be legally binding on both parties, if Mr M chooses to accept it. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above and in my provision decision I am not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint and so dont require Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited to take any 
further action in this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2021.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman
EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the 
law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, I am not planning to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ive provisionally 
concluded that while MBFS didnt carry out a proportionate check before agreeing to 
lend to Mr M, a further assessment wasnt likely to have shown that the finance would be 
unaffordable for him. I appreciate that this will be a disappointing outcome for both 
parties and I hope the following explains how and why Ive come to this view.
Before agreeing credit for Mr M, MBFS needed to check that he could afford to meet his 
repayments sustainably, in other words out of his usual income and savings without 
having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse 
consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit and Mr 
Ms circumstances, and MBFS needed to take proper account of the information it 
gathered. Ultimately, MBFS needed to treat Mr M fairly and take full account of his 
interests when making its lending decision.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the potential risk to 
the borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, 
Id expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to a given amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of 
the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
payments for an extended period).
Furthermore, the regulations in place at the time stated that a lender must take steps to 
ensure that the information it relies on, including information from the applicant, is 
complete and correct. They also state that is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely 
solely for its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure on a statement of 
those matters made by the customer.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ms case, I have considered 
the following questions:
did MBFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Ms loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate 
checks have shown?
overall, did MBFS make a fair lending decision?
MBFS says that Mr M had taken several vehicles on finance with it previously and had a 
good payment history. His credit file showed no adverse information and a high level of 
unused credit. For these reasons, it says, it didnt ask for proof of income. I havent seen a 
copy of  Mr Ms application form but MBFS said his occupation was listed in its records as 
retired. MBFS said that Mr M had met a monthly repayment level of £450 on a previous 
agreement, though noted it seemed hed been in employment then. The lender also said 
that Mr M had never raised affordability concerns before and overall, it had no problems 
giving him finance at that time.Ive seen a copy of the credit report MBFS relied on and consider that it doesnt show 
anything of concern, for example high levels of existing debt or poor credit management. 
MBFS mentioned that Mr Ms credit file showed a credit card with a high level of unused 
credit which it took to be a positive indication of his ability to afford more credit. I dont 
think it is automatically a positive - the presence of unused instantly available credit might 
actually raise concerns for a lender if its utilisation and repayment was likely to impact on 
the sustainability of the credit in question. However, in Mr Ms case, his credit file shows a 
zero balance for this card for the previous few years so I cant say its more likely than not 
that this alone ought to have been of such concern that MBFS should have declined to 
lend to him.
Altogether, I can understand why MBFS would have a positive view of another 
application for credit from Mr M, given their relationship history. However, this doesnt 
mean to say that it fulfilled its obligation to take reasonable and proportionate steps to 
check Mr M could sustainably meet his repayments for this agreement over the term.
As mentioned, the agreement was for four years but Mr M had the option to return the 
car and end the agreement by paying an amount equivalent to his deposit plus 38 
monthly payments. So, as a minimum, Mr M would potentially need to meet his 
repayments for just over three years.
It seems MBFS knew Mr M was retired at the time and that hed held a previous 
agreement with comparable repayments. However, that agreement was incepted in 2013 
and Mr Ms circumstances might well have changed since then. The repayments on the 
agreement he held for his existing car were considerably lower at £236.
MBFS said that Mr M had signed a declaration within the finance agreement which 
states: "You can afford to make the payments required under this agreement and know 
of no reason why your ability to afford the payments would change throughout the 
duration of this agreement." Additionally, listed on the front of the agreement was the 
payment schedule for the finance, confirming Mr M was aware of the value and duration 
of the contract.
While I can understand MBFSs perspective, Im afraid I cant agree that simply including 
this statement in the agreement discharges its obligation to Mr M to assess the risk to him 
of not meeting his repayments.
I dont know if MBFS asked Mr M about his income when he applied for credit or took 
steps to verify this information and there is no mention of gathering an understanding of 
his expenditure. I think these steps would have been reasonable and proportionate, given 
the above circumstances and the amount of credit and length of agreement Mr M was 
taking on. Altogether, I dont think MBFS gathered sufficient information to carry out an 
appropriate affordability assessment on this occasion.
However, this doesnt automatically mean Mr Ms complaint succeeds. Ive considered 
what information a proportionate check would likely have yielded. Ive looked through the 
bank statements Mr M provided and considered what hes said about the matter. And 
based on the information available to me Ive provisionally concluded that had MBFS 
enquired further into Mr Ms finances, it wasnt likely to have learnt anything which would 
or should have prompted it to decline to lend to him at that time.
Mr M says that he was retired and that hed had some part time work in the months before 
taking out the agreement. Mr Ms state pension came to about £720 a month. However, I 
dont know if this or similar work was available to him on an ongoing basis. Mr M told this Service that hed retired in 2013 so it seems he was working part-time during his 
retirement. Even assuming minimal outgoings (I understand that Mr M didnt pay a 
monthly mortgage or rent) I dont think its reasonable to conclude that the monthly 
repayments of £429 would be affordable for him over the term of the agreement on the 
basis that his state pension was his sole means.
I dont know if Mr M had any other income or pensions though I understand he had a 
property abroad, for which he was receiving rental income. Mr M says that the property 
was washing its face in that the monies he received paid for the mortgage, though I can 
see that he transferred £3,000 from his foreign account into his UK bank account in 
November 2017.
The regulations in place at the time consider that a borrowers means include savings. In 
December 2017 Mr M had a balance of almost £20,000 in his current account. These 
funds were available to him in the sense that they were immediately accessible and also 
that they were not set aside for a specific purpose.
Mr M said that he never planned to purchase the car but to return it when the agreement 
ended. This is, it seems, how hes managed his previous agreements. He explained his 
account balance as basic capital acquired through a life time mortgage taken out some 
years before which hed held for a rainy day. He also said that he didnt think about 
using some of the capital for a lump sum payment for the car and didnt know it was 
possible as it hadnt been suggested by the salesperson.
The question remains that, on learning more about Mr Ms circumstances, was it fair of 
MBFS to enter into a credit agreement with him? Did it, in the words of the regulations, 
take full account of his interests in doing so? I would say at this point that I dont feel I 
understand everything about Mr Ms financial circumstances. But, having carefully 
considered the information I do have, Im afraid I cant find that MBFS was wrong to have 
agreed credit for Mr M as I cant say what reasons it could fairly have given for declining 
him.
Mr M says that he moved to a new house in September 2018 and spent a lot on 
renovations, which used up his savings. Mr M also says that he considered changing his 
car about that time and applied for finance with another lender. This had a lower monthly 
repayment but he was declined for credit. Mr M feels this shows that his agreement with 
MBFS wasnt affordable for him as his income hadnt changed in the intervening period. 
This application was with another lender, however, and I cant say it would have had the 
same lending criteria as MBFS or that his overall financial situation was similar at that 
time. 
MBFS says that Mr M met his repayments on time until he was late with a payment in 
October 2019. Mr M says that his property abroad was in negative equity and he decided 
to relinquish it in 2019. The mortgage lender foreclosed with a relatively low net loss to 
him of a few thousand pounds in late 2019. Mr M says that the cost of this matter took him 
overdrawn on his bank account and he took out money on a credit card. Mr M says he is 
now in a position where he hasnt been able to meet the repayments on this agreement. I 
understand that hes recently asked MBFS for an early settlement figure and is in the 
process of selling his house.
I am sorry to hear that Mr M is having difficulties with his finances. Id remind MBFS of its 
ongoing obligation to treat Mr M fairly in the matter of his arrears and in light of his 
financial difficulties. This might include letting Mr M sell the car privately if he can do so for 
an amount that would clear the entire outstanding balance or, alternatively, accepting his 
voluntary termination of the agreement and putting in place a repayment plan for any amounts owing. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not planning to uphold Mr Ms complaint 
about Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited.
Ill wait a month at most to allow both parties time to comment on what Ive said 
and/or provide any new information for me to consider before making my final 
decision. A final decision would mark the end of our process.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman