DRN-3158398
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC removed funds from his account without 
notifying him. And hed like compensation for the impact caused. 
What happened
Mr H had an account with Barclays. 
On the 19 June 2020 Barclays removed £485 from Mr Hs account. Mr H logged into his 
online banking and noticed he had a negative balance so contacted the bank. Mr H was 
concerned that hed be unable to pay direct debits due on the 22 June 2020  however he 
was disappointed with the advice he received on contacting the banks customer service 
team. Mr H advises he was told by Barclays to contact the businesses directly and he feels 
theyve discriminated against him because of his mental health condition. 
On the 22 June 2020 Barclays issued a notice to close letter to Mr H giving him two months 
notice that his account would be closing on the 21 August 2020. 
On the 1 July 2020 Barclays returned Mr Hs funds. 
Mr H complained to Barclays but they didnt uphold his complaint  they advised theyd 
acted within their legal and regulatory obligations on reviewing his account, withholding his 
funds and closing his account with two months notice. 
Mr H wasnt happy with Barclays response so complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into his complaint but didnt uphold it. They thought Barclays 
were entitled to review Mr Hs account, and theyd returned his funds within a satisfactory 
timeframe. Our investigator asked Barclays for copies of the phone calls they had with Mr H 
 to assess the level of customer service provided  however the bank wasnt able to find 
any calls. Based on this our investigator explained she couldnt conclude theyd provided 
poor service to Mr H.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view. In summary he said:
Barclays cleared his overdraft as well as removing his funds.
If he hadnt checked his balance on the 19 June he wouldnt have been able to pay 
his direct debits on the 22 June.
The bank didnt inform him they were taking his money.
Its strange the bank cant find any phone recordings.
As Mr H didnt accept our investigators view its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs main complaint points are hes concerned about Barclays actions in removing the 
money from his account, before releasing it on the 1 July 2020. And secondly the customer 
service he received when calling the bank following this. 
Ive firstly considered the removal of Mr Hs funds. I understand that Mr H was very 
concerned on checking his account and finding his money had been removed. However, 
Barclays have certain legal obligations which require them to monitor and review accounts. 
Ive considered in Mr Hs case whether it was fair and reasonable for them to review his 
account, and temporarily withhold his funds, and Im satisfied it was. Mr H has raised that 
Barclays didnt notify him of the removal of his funds or the review of his account, but the 
bank isnt under any obligation to do so. Ive also thought about Mr H highlighting his 
overdraft was also removed at the time, however an overdraft is a credit facility provided by 
a bank on a temporary basis. If Mr H was in his overdraft at the time it was removed, and the 
bank asked for full payment Id expect them to treat him positively and sympathetically when 
making arrangements for the debt. However, as Mr H wasnt in his overdraft, prior to the 
£485 being removed, I cant say the bank has acted unfairly here. 
Its however important any review is completed in a timely manner. Ive considered the 
length of time Barclays withheld Mr Hs funds for  and appreciate this would have been 
worrying for him  however Im satisfied the review was completed within an appropriate 
time frame. Mr Hs funds were released to him in just over 10 days after they were restricted. 
Ive moved on to consider the level of customer service provided by Barclays. And I 
understand Mr Hs frustrations that the bank has been unable to locate the calls he made. 
Ive looked at the account notes provided by Barclays and I can see one call made to the 
bank on the 23 June 2020  within these notes theres no record of Mr Hs mental health.  
Mr H believes that Barclays have discriminated against him. I can understand why he feels 
this way but having looked at all the evidence I dont think Barclays has done so. Nor do I 
think theyve acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr H has also explained that the bank advised him to contact the merchants directly to 
inform them the direct debits wouldnt be collected  and I understand this would have been 
inconvenient for him. However, as Ive previously explained Im satisfied Barclays acted fairly 
in reviewing Mr Hs account. And therefore I cant conclude that the bank acted unfairly when 
directing Mr H to contact the merchants directly. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I wont be asking Barclays to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman