DRN-2965041
Complaint
Ms F has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) unfairly increased the limit on her 
overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Lloyds rework Ms Fs 
account to remove the effect of all the interest fees and charges added to her overdraft from 
May 2016 as it ought to have realised that she struggling to manage her overdraft. 
Lloyds accepted our adjudicators view and worked out that Ms Fs outstanding balance with 
the third-party debt purchaser it sold her account to would reduce. But Ms F disagreed. She 
thought that her outstanding debt should be written off and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Ms F is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if 
those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, Ms F has been left with an outstanding balance, with the third-party debt 
purchaser that Lloyds sold her account to, even though the credits shes made to the 
account have been factored in and shes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges 
applied. So while Ms F has been left with a balance and she might be unhappy with this, 
Lloyds has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Ms F says Lloyds should do something different here. She wants the remaining balance on 
her overdraft written off. She says Lloyds shouldnt have provided the facility in the first 
place. 
Ive thought about what Ms F has said. And what shes said is a reason for upholding her 
complaint rather than a reason for departing from our normal approach to putting things right 
in cases such as hers. All the interest, fees and charges Lloyds shouldnt have added have 
been removed from the overdraft. So what Ms F is left with to repay are the funds which she 
used and benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have left her 
with a debt that she wouldnt otherwise have been left with. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind Ms F spent them, I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to expect Ms F to repay these funds. And I dont think that Ms Fs unhappiness 
at having a balance to repay, even after her complaint has been upheld, is in itself a 
compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Ms F is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Ms F to decide whether she 
wishes to accept Lloyds offer.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Ms F is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her case. So 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman