DRN-3365260
The complaint
Mr C and Ms Z complain that Santander UK Plc charged them an overdraft fee.
What happened
Mr C and Ms Z say that their account was credited with £8,400 before a payment of £10,000 
was made out of it. But say Santander charged them an overdraft fee of £0.28 as it said the 
transactions took place in the opposite order. Mr C say he was caused stress and 
inconvenience by this mistake and questions how his account could have been overdrawn 
by so much when the agreed limit is £300. He would like £250 compensation for what took 
place.
Santander says it hasnt made a mistake but has refunded the £0.28 fee. It says its records 
confirm the payment out of the account took place on 5 January 2021 and the payment into 
the account was credited on 6 January 2021.
Mr C and Ms Z brought their complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The 
investigator looked at Santanders records and thought the payment out took place the day 
before the payment in and so it was entitled to charge the interest. The investigator accepted 
the account statement didnt provide that level of detail.
Mr C and Ms Z dont accept that view and say Santanders systems must be at fault. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I accept Mr C and Ms Zs account statement doesnt have the exact times of the transactions 
and doesnt appear to show that the account was ever overdrawn. But I have looked 
carefully at Santanders records and am satisfied that the payment out was made on 5 
January 2021 and the payment into the account was credited the following day on 6 January 
2021. So, Im satisfied that for a short period of time the account was overdrawn, and it 
follows that I dont think Santander made a mistake by charging interest in those 
circumstances.
I appreciate Mr C says he didnt have such a large overdraft facility and I agree with him But 
Im satisfied that it was up to Santander to decide if it wished to honour the payment out of 
the account and allow the account to enter an unarranged overdraft.
I can see that Santander fairly explained what took place to Mr C and Ms Z and think that it 
acted fairly by refunding what I think was an extremely small interest charge of £0.28. I dont 
think it clear why Mr C says what took place caused such stress that he should be awarded 
£250 compensation. And I have not seen any evidence that Santanders system made a 
mistake as he suggests.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman