DRN-2765488
The complaint
Ms Ms complained that, despite making overpayments to her credit card account she had 
with Santander UK Plc, the balance wasnt reduced as she expected.  And Santander 
continued to send her persistent debt letters, which she found threatening and stressful.
What happened
Ms M had a credit card account with Santander for a number of years.   By 2018, Santander 
had identified her as being in persistent debt because shed paid more in interest, fees, and 
charges over an 18 month period than she had to reduce the card balance.  So they began 
to write to Ms M about how to reduce what she owed.
Ms M had a direct debit in place to make sure her minimum payments were made on time.  
But, in response to Santanders letters, Ms M began to make additional payments by direct 
transfer to try and reduce what she owed.
The payments didnt reduce her balance by as much as Ms M expected.  She says she 
contacted Santander over about two years to find out why that was.  But they couldnt tell 
her.  And it was only in March 2020 that someone at Santander realised that the payments 
shed made had reduced the direct debit taken from her account, rather than reducing what 
she owed.
Ms M was unhappy that it took Santander so long to recognise the issue and complained 
about this  and about the persistent debt letters shed continued to receive, which she said 
were threatening and caused her anxiety.  She said they should be directed to people who 
werent trying to address their debt as she was. 
Santander investigated Ms Ms complaint but didnt uphold it.  They apologised for any 
stress their letters had caused her.  But they said they were required by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to send them to all customers who were in persistent debt.  As Ms 
M had found them threatening, Santander said theyd review the letters content.
Santander said theyd reviewed the payments Ms M had made and could see the additional 
payments she was making were causing an adjustment to the amount of her direct debit 
because of the time of the month Ms M was making them.  
Ms M wasnt satisfied with Santanders response and brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded Santander didnt need to do anything more to 
resolve it.  She said they had to send Ms M letters about her debt as the FCA required them 
to do that.
And the investigator said that the persistent debt letters sent to Ms M and her monthly 
statements both warned her that, if she made additional payments more than five days 
before her direct debit was due, those payments would reduce the direct debit amount taken, 
rather than reducing what she owed.
Ms M didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Ms Ms concern.  She did as she was asked by Santander and made additional 
payments  only to find out they werent reducing her debt.  She told the investigator she 
wanted them applied to reduce what she owed.  I can see why shed say that.  But I can only 
say Santander should do more to resolve her complaint if I think they did something wrong.
As our investigator explained, all lenders are required by the FCA to monitor their customers 
repayments on a monthly basis.  And, if the customer has paid more in interest, fees, and 
charges over the preceding 18 months than they have to reduce what they owe, the FCA 
says those customers should be treated as being in persistent debt.  
That means the lender has to write to the customer about options, including increasing their 
monthly payments and making additional payments so their debt is paid off more quickly. 
They also have to explain the potential consequences of not doing so.  And they have to 
repeat this if the customer remains in persistent debt after 27 and 36 months.
Ive looked at the letters and Im satisfied Santanders provided the information the FCA says 
they had to.  So, while Im sorry they upset Ms M, I cant say the letters shouldnt have been 
sent.
And I can see the letters did prompt Ms M to try and reduce her debt by making additional 
payments.  That wasnt successful.  So Ive thought carefully about whether thats because 
Santander did something wrong.
As our investigator explained, both the persistent debt letters Ms M received and her 
monthly statements say that additional payments made within five days of the direct debit 
due date will reduce the amount taken by direct debit from Ms Ms account, rather than being 
an additional payment.  I can see from looking at several months worth of statements thats 
what happened.  The direct debits credited to the account are for less than the minimum 
payment, with the balance being made up of extra credits from Ms M.
I think the letters and statements make it clear this will happen.  Ms M told the investigator it 
was unreasonable to assume the public will read everything.  I dont agree thats the case.  I 
think businesses are entitled to rely on the fact customers will read the information they send 
to help them manage their accounts.
I understand Ms M tried to contact Santander when the amount she owed didnt drop as she 
expected.  In that case, Id expect Santander to be able to talk to her about her account.  But 
Ms M says she got no useful information for about two years.
While I dont doubt what Ms M says, shes not provided any evidence to support it.  So I 
asked our investigator to contact Santander and get call recordings for this period.  
Santander have searched their records using the number we have for Ms M and two others.  
None have produced any records for me to consider.
In the absence of those records, I can only rely on the written evidence mentioned above to 
make my decision.  That shows Santander gave Ms M the information theyre required to 
about her debt and guidance on how she could reduce it.  Without anything to contradict 
that, I dont think they need to do any more to resolve Ms Ms complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman