DRN-3869702
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc made unreasonable 
requests for information as part of a business profile review.
What happened
C is represented by its director. She explains that she told NatWest in October 2021 that C 
wouldnt be able to provide all the information it had asked for as part of the review. She 
says that in error a beneficial owner of ten percent of the shares of C remained in place and 
was no longer contactable. So, it wouldnt be possible to verify that persons identity. She is 
unhappy with the general service and lack of understanding of members of staff at NatWest 
shes spoken with about the requirements. The account is now restricted meaning that C 
cant meet payments, and this wasnt a reasonable response under the terms and conditions 
of the account.
NatWest said it hadnt made a mistake. It said of the business profile review that:
As a regulated financial institution, we have an obligation to maintain and update our 
customer records periodically. Following a review, we have identified that there are gaps in 
the information held about certain individuals and businesses. In order to remediate our 
records, we need to obtain the missing information from customers and then update our 
records accordingly. We are therefore contacting those customers to carry this out.
It didnt agree that its contact with C about this as a reminder of the requirement had been 
unreasonable. And it had told C that not providing the information may result in the account 
being restricted. It apologised for not calling C on 15 December 2021 as promised but said 
that it had called on 11 January 2022 and that the director hadnt wanted to discuss things 
further. NatWest said that members of its complaints team may not have all the information 
to hand when asked and it accepted that this could have been better explained at the time. 
But that the requirements had been set out for C including issues with the information and 
that these hadnt been met. And so, the account had been restricted.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that it hadnt been 
in dispute that information relating to a shareholder was outstanding. And although C 
disagreed with the requirement he thought NatWest was entitled to request it to meet its 
obligations. Resolving the issue about the shareholder was fairly down to C to do. And given 
the information was outstanding NatWest had acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account and restricted access. He didnt think that NatWest should compensate C for the 
consequences as it hadnt made a mistake.
NatWest had agreed to consider new complaint points that C had raised. The first was about 
why it hadnt offered to close the account for C and so allow it to have access to the funds. 
He noted that this was something that had always been open to C to request and he 
provided details from NatWest about how to do this. But he didnt think that this would 
necessarily have been an appropriate way for it to suggest to resolve things.
C had also challenged two unpaid fees of £12 applied to the account after it had been 
restricted and which related to direct debits which had been returned. NatWest had agreed 
to refund these charges. He also noted that it had separately paid the director of C £200 in 
compensation for service issues personally experienced and which arent part of this 
complaint from C as a separate legal entity. Finally, he said that a complaint about historic 
banking charges would be considered as a new complaint and he made arrangements for 
this to be set up separately.
C didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. The director 
remained of the view that NatWest hadnt acted reasonably or followed the law and that it 
had acted in a bullying way. She said she had knowledge that a different financial business 
tailored similar questions better and NatWest should have done so too. There hadnt been a 
basis to apply the unpaid fees. The director said C wouldnt be closing the account as it 
would need to resolve the issue with the shareholder and then things would be satisfactory 
with the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute resolution and we arent a court or the regulator. I am 
going to focus on the issues I think are key here in assessing the complaint. I note from what 
C has provided that there remains a beneficial owner of ten percent of the shares that it 
intended to have been changed some time ago. And that this was presenting difficulties for 
C and that efforts to do so without loss for C hadnt proved possible. I also note what C says 
about the scale and nature of its activities, the limited possible role of the missing beneficial 
owner, that the director is responsible for day to day operation of the account and that no 
problem had been identified over a number of years.
Im satisfied that NatWest has considered what Cs said to it about these issues. I quoted 
above from its response to C and this sets out that the scope for a review is potentially wide. 
It is not necessarily only limited to the anti-money laundering legislation that C has for 
example specifically referred to. And its fairly a matter for NatWest to decide how to conduct 
a review and what information it reasonably requires to meet regulatory requirements and so 
to know its customer. So, I know the director of C is going to be disappointed when I say I 
wont be going behind that further. C hasnt persuaded me that any of the requirements are 
unreasonable from NatWest or that they should be waived only because C cant meet them. 
In making this finding as I say I consider NatWest has commercial discretion as to how it 
operates its business.
I appreciate that the director says NatWest has prolonged the agony of the process. But I 
dont see its been other than consistent in whats fundamentally required, and it has written 
to C about this. I can appreciate that some of the calls the director says shes had with 
NatWest havent seemed productive but as she says C has been clear since October 2021 
that it couldnt provide information about one particular shareholder. And I dont see NatWest 
needs to explain further to C why it wants the information or disclose any specific risk 
assessment about C as has been asked. I also dont see that this requirement being a 
relatively recent one in the history of Cs involvement with NatWest to be relevant. I note as 
our investigator set out above the separate payment to the director for service issues in 
phone calls and which shes accepted.
Thered been no clear suggestion Ive seen that C hadnt wanted to keep its account until 
after the complaint had been referred to this service. I take the view that if NatWest had 
suggested this to C or given notice then this would most likely have aggravated things. But in 
any event C is now less clear that it no longer wants the account. So, I dont uphold this complaint point.
Im satisfied that given that C hadnt met the requirements as part of its review that NatWest 
had a basis to restrict the account. Its referred to acting in line with Section 5.3 of its terms 
and conditions. And I note that it had previously told C that this could happen in these 
circumstances. So, I dont consider NatWest to be responsible for the consequences.
The issue of the fees after the account was restricted is also a new one which NatWest 
needed fairly to have time to address. Its decided to refund the fees of £24. I consider that 
was the appropriate decision here. While it referred to Section 10.4 of the terms and 
conditions in applying unpaid fees, I agree with C that this primarily seems to relate to 
situations where there are insufficient funds. While a letter of 30 September 2022 from 
NatWest to C about one of the fees said it could be applied if we decide in our discretion not 
to make the payment it then went on to say that C should ensure that there are sufficient 
funds in the account. I think to restrict the account and then charge C for attempted regular 
payments wasnt reasonable here. But again, as the account was restricted C couldnt 
expect such payments to be made. As I say this was a new complaint point and I think 
NatWest has already fairly addressed this by making the refund.
I understand the frustration of the director about the position of C generally with respect to 
the shareholder in question. And that this has clearly been exacerbated by the requirements 
of NatWest and that C doesnt think it can alter the shareholding without loss and ongoing 
issues. But Ive needed to think specifically about what NatWest has done and the reasons 
why. And while I know the director of C strongly disagrees with that and how its gone about 
things, I dont have a reasonable basis to say that in terms of the fundamental point and 
information requirement its acted unfairly for the reasons Ive given. I know the director of C 
will be disappointed that I wont be asking it to do anything further. If C doesnt accept my 
decision it remains free to pursue this in court subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint on the basis that National Westminster 
Bank Plc need not take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman