DRN-3932146
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complained about Hiscox Insurance Company Limiteds handling of the 
household insurance claim at their tenanted property. For the avoidance of doubt, reference 
to Hiscox will include their agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K discovered water pooling on the kitchen floor in May 2022. They had 
appliance and home emergency cover so tried them first. The washing machine was ruled 
out as a cause, and it was considered there may be an escape of water from beneath the 
floor.
Mr and Mrs K then made a claim on their policy so the leak could be traced and repaired. 
Despite the earlier conclusion Hiscox asked for the washing machine to be run and found an 
intermittent fault with it. They also identified some external areas of concern and a failed seal 
around the sink.
Some back and forth followed, and another contractor was engaged before the underfloor 
leak was located and eventually fixed. During the repairs, Mr and Mrs K felt Hiscox had left 
the property in an unsafe condition and that they changed the scope of the rectification work.
Mr and Mrs K also felt the claim couldve been handled quicker if heed had been taken of the 
initial conclusions from their appliance cover provider and those who attended under the 
home emergency cover. Hiscox did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaints.
An investigator here looked into the matter and recommended that Hiscox arrange 
installation of a LeakBot and pay Mr and Mrs K £200 compensation. He said the LeakBot 
had been installed prior to reinstatement and so it should have been reinstalled as part of 
those works. And he felt compensation was warranted because the leak ought to have been 
detected sooner than it was, which caused unnecessary trouble and upset.
Mr and Mrs K thanked the investigator, but Hiscox didnt agree. They said there was no 
LeakBot installed prior to the leak, so it was determined that that was no requirement to 
install it as part of the claim. They also felt the claim had been handled adequately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wish to be clear that I am only considering the aspects which related to Mr and Mrs Ks 
claim for an escape of water in May 2022. I understand there has been a leak since, around 
January 2023, which may be the subject of another complaint  that is not considered under 
this case.
There doesnt seem to be a huge amount to decide in this particular matter, bearing in mind 
the claim was dealt with some time ago. But Mr and Mrs K feel the claim was handled 
poorly, whereas Hiscox disagrees. I consider that some of the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr and Mrs K couldve been avoided, so it is reasonable to require compensation 
for that. And I agree £200 is fair in the circumstances.
In particular, Mr and Mrs K say there was strain on the relationship with their tenant due to 
the scope of work being narrowed  having previously been agreed with the tenant in 
attendance. Further, it is understood the flooring wasnt left in a safe condition at one point 
and, while rectified quickly, that rectification shouldnt have been necessary.
It also seems likely that the underfloor leak could have been located and fixed more quickly 
than it was. It had been suspected from the outset, so the investigations at the start of the 
claim ought to have focussed on that, rather than exploring issues which had already been 
ruled out  even if other problems were identified.
Turning to the issue with the LeakBot, I note that Hiscox say they didnt agree to install it 
because it wasnt installed prior to the leak  and therefore wouldnt form part of the 
rectification work. But, the evidence provided shows that it was installed prior to the works 
being carried out, so it ought to have been considered as part of the rectification work.
Further, Mr and Mrs K have provided a statement from their tenant which explains that it had 
been agreed to be reinstalled as part of the work. So, on balance, I think its more likely than 
not that this shouldve taken place. I cannot, however, comment on whether or not that 
wouldve had any impact on subsequent losses.
Putting things right
I require Hiscox to pay Mr and Mrs K £200 compensation for the claim handling issues 
outlined above. I also require Hiscox to reinstall the LeakBot. Mr and Mrs K confirm it was 
agreed to be installed on the internal stopcock in the cupboard under the stairs.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman