DRN-3891793
The complaint
Ms T complains Zurich Assurance Ltd delayed a life insurance claim made following her 
husbands death. 
What happened
As both parties are familiar with what happened Ill only summarise events below. 
Ms T and her now late husband, Mr T, held joint level protection and decreasing mortgage 
policies with Zurich. Both provided life cover, and Zurich began to assess a claim under this 
provision when Mr T passed away in December 2021. 
Zurich received an interim death certificate for Mr T in January 2022 but said it couldnt 
determine the claim at that point. It said it needed the coroners inquest due to take place to 
be completed, so it could determine the cause of death didnt affect the claim being settled in 
full. 
By April 2022 a decision still hadnt been reached by Zurich and Ms T complained about the 
time it was taking. Zurich explained its intention was to settle claims in a prompt and efficient 
manner, but reiterated its reasons for not yet having decided matters. It did make an interim 
payment to Ms T in June 2022 because she was beginning to experience financial difficulty. 
But as it still hadnt determined the claim by August 2022 Ms T brought her complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They felt there wasnt sufficient evidence to show why 
the claim couldnt have been determined in view of the relevant policy terms and exclusions 
whilst the inquest remained ongoing. So, they recommended Zurich paid the remainder of 
the claim as a result, plus 8% simple interest from 4 February 2022 to the date of settlement.
Ms T accepted that recommendation, but Zurich did not. It said itd been trying to gather all 
the relevant information to determine the claim and needed to ensure there was no 
criminality or third party involvement. It said neither of those things could be concluded 
without the inquest being completed, or the coroners report, and so as no agreement was 
reached the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Prior to a decision being reached Zurich said it had received the coroners report and settled 
the claim. Ms T said the amounts it had paid her were less than she expected though, and 
she noted the interest included with the settlement wasnt in line with our investigators 
recommendation. 
Zurich told our investigator that during its review it noticed the dates of birth for Ms T and Mr 
T had been recorded incorrectly. It said the settlement figures since paid had reflected the 
correct sums assured in view of that, some interest had been included too, and it could not 
have determined the claim any sooner. So, I now need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to read about Mr Ts death; my condolences go to Ms T and her family. 
Ms T is unhappy with the amount of settlement since received. I understand the confusion 
with, and impact of, the dates of birth are already subject to separate complaint. So it 
wouldnt be appropriate of me to address the settlement amount here. I will still address the 
delay elements however, and for the reasons Ill now explain will be upholding this 
complaint. 
Zurich has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly. The life cover available 
under the two joint policies was detailed in their respective terms and conditions. They both 
explained the following:
Claiming for the life cover
The person dealing with the claim will need to complete a form we provide. We may need 
the death certificate, proof of identity and, where applicable, reasonable evidence that the 
person dealing with the claim is entitled to claim (for example, a grant of probate showing 
that he or she is the executor of your estate). They must pay any costs incurred in providing 
these. Where it is reasonable to do so, we can also ask for medical evidence and 
information regarding the cause and/or circumstances of death. Well tell the person dealing 
with your affairs what we need when they make a claim.
The terms and conditions also set out the circumstances in which a claim would not be paid, 
and again, both said:
When we wont pay
We wont pay a life cover claim if:
you havent made all payments that were due
you commit suicide within 12 months of the date the plan started or is reinstated. 
Instead, well refund the payments youve made since the plan started or was 
reinstated
the cause of the claim arises from the circumstances stated in any specific 
exclusions on your plan schedule.
Zurich has explained why it didnt believe it was in a position to determine this claim any 
sooner than it did. I thank it for setting that out and appreciate the reasons put forward 
(needing the inquest to be completed and cause of death from the coroner, wanting to rule 
out any third party involvement, and wanting to rule out any criminal activity). But Im not 
persuaded Zurich has established how those things would have applied to the above 
circumstances in which a claim wouldnt be paid. 
For example, this service hasnt been advised of any payments not made towards either 
policy. Both policies had been in place for more than 12 months too. And neither schedule 
detailed any specific exclusions. So, like the investigator before me, Im not persuaded that 
any of the circumstances cited in the above terms would have applied here. 
Zurich is entitled to have the time to validate and determine claims of course, but I cant fairly 
conclude that the time taken to do so here was reasonable. Zurich was provided with an interim death certificate for Mr T on 17 January 2022, and that set out the precise cause of 
his death. Zurich was also told of the inquest on 26 January 2022. And given Im unsure how 
any of the subsequent reasons it put forward for not determining the claim would have 
impacted the above terms, I too think Zurich should have been in a position to determine this 
claim from early February 2022.
As a result, Ms T was without this settlement for much longer than I think she needed to be, 
and I agree that interest should be awarded to it.
Zurich has already included some interest in the settlement it paid under both policies. This 
totalled just over £83. Given the above findings I dont think that accurately reflected the 
amount of time Ms T was without this settlement. So, I think Zurich needs to recalculate the 
interest aspect of it in the way I will now detail below. 
Putting things right
To put things right Zurich should:
pay interest on the total settlement, from 4 February 2022 to the date of settlement, 
at a rate of 8% simple per annum 
deduct from the above amount any interest it has already paid 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Zurich Assurance Ltd should put things right 
in the way I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman