DRN-2919735
The complaint
Mr G complains Brentacre Insurance Services Ltd didnt pass on information to his insurer, 
leading to his motor insurance policy being cancelled.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr G asked Brentacre to arrange a motor insurance policy for his car. He 
was asked for further information by his insurer, including a MOT. He was able to provide 
everything bar the MOT, as initially there was something he needed to get fixed on his car. 
After getting this fixed there was then a further delay as a relative of the garage owner where 
his car was due to be MOTd sadly passed away. He said this led to delays, and he asked 
Brentacre to make his insurer aware of this. He then received the letter saying his policy had 
been cancelled, which happened the same day he got the MOT done. He complained to our 
service, saying he felt Brentacre hadnt passed on information to his insurer in a timely 
manner.
Brentacre said Mr G approached them on 7 September 2020 to arrange insurance for his car 
to start on 18 September. They said they were asked for some further information from the 
anti-fraud department of Mr Gs insurer on 9 September which was received and passed on. 
Then on 22 October 2020 Mr Gs insurer asked for the V5 registration document, and the 
MOT. Brentacre shared their email exchanges with Mr Gs insurer with Mr G, and said theyd 
acted quickly, decisively, and professionally with Mr Gs best interests at all times. They said 
they couldnt see any delays and had actually chased up Mr Gs insurer on several 
occasions when they werent replying. Because of that, they didnt think they were 
responsible for Mr Gs policy being cancelled.
One of our investigators considered everything and found Brentacre had communicated with 
Mr Gs insurer in a timely fashion, so didnt think theyd done anything wrong. He also looked 
at the premium and how itd been returned  and found this had also been done correctly. 
So, overall, he didnt think Brentacre needed to do anything further.
Mr G didnt accept this  he said he got his MOT the same day his policy was cancelled and 
really, they should have waited longer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs complaint brought to our service was about whether Brentacre had communicated 
properly with his insurer to pass on the relevant information about his MOT. So, for me to 
uphold his complaint, Id have to be satisfied they failed to do this.
Ive looked at the information thats been provided. It shows that whenever Mr G, or his 
insurer, asked Brentacre to take action they did so promptly. 
On 22 October 2020 when Mr Gs insurer asked for the V5 and MOT, I can see Brentacre 
contacted Mr G, received the update about the MOT, and passed that back the same day. 
This is replicated in all contacts Brentacre received  they acted promptly and efficiently at 
all times.
So, although its very unfortunate Mr Gs policy was cancelled, I cant say thats as a result of 
anything Brentacre did. And it seems to me that Mr G perhaps does accept this  as he says 
they should have waited before cancelling his policy. But, although Brentacre may have 
communicated this, the decision to cancel his policy was taken by his insurers anti-fraud 
department, for reasons I can see theyve not shared with Brentacre. I can see Mr G was 
made aware it was his insurers decision to cancel the policy, not Brentacres as well.
Ive also seen that our investigator looked into how the premium refund was calculated. Mr G 
hasnt disputed this, and the evidence provided shows Brentacre have acted fairly in how 
theyve calculated the premium refund following the cancellation as well.
Overall then, Ive seen nothing to suggest Brentacre caused Mr Gs policy to be cancelled, or 
that they need to take any further action.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman