DRN-2305045
The complaint
Mr D says Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) irresponsibly 
lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan MoneyBoat provided to Mr D in January 2018. 
The loan was for £400 and was to be repaid in six monthly instalments, the highest being 
£119.68. Mr D repaid his loan. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ds complaint and thought the loan shouldnt have been given. 
MoneyBoat disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
MoneyBoat said that its affordability checks had been proportionate for Mr Ds first loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
MoneyBoat asked Mr D for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr D said his monthly income was £1,650. He said his living expenses were 
£470 and he had other credit commitments of £400. 
As our adjudicator explained, MoneyBoats credit check showed that Mr D had other 
outstanding short-term loans with other lenders at the time he applied for the loan. Mr Ds 
monthly repayments were in excess of £1,500 but hed told MoneyBoat that his credit 
commitments were only £400 a month. 
MoneyBoat said that its affordability checks had been proportionate for this first loan. But I 
think it had carried out a credit check on Mr D and so it should have reasonably considered 
the results of the evidence available. Indeed, MoneyBoat told Mr D, in its response to his 
complaint, that it had used the results of the credit check to satisfy it that he would be able to 
sustainably meet his repayments. 
MoneyBoat also queries the accuracy of the information about other loans on the credit 
check. Ive looked at the report and I can see that there were three outstanding loans with 
other lenders at the time Mr D applied for his loan from MoneyBoat. The total of the regular 
repayments exceeded £1,500 a month, which was more than Mr Ds disposable income. I 
cant see how MoneyBoat decided that these amounts were inaccurate. 
I think MoneyBoat should have reasonably realised from its credit check that Mr D didnt 
have sufficient disposable income to repay these loans and afford his other living expenses. 
So I think MoneyBoat was wrong to have approved its loan to Mr D. 
So Im upholding the complaint about Mr Ds loan and I think MoneyBoat should put things 
right.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr D, I think MoneyBoat should do the following:
refund all interest and charges Mr D paid on his loan;pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ds credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint. I require 
Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) to carry out the redress 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman