DRN-3838214
The complaint
Miss K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly handled her accounts and prevented her 
from taking out further borrowing after she asked for help with managing her money.
What happened
In May 2021, Miss K called Lloyds to ask for help with managing her money. She said she 
wasnt having trouble paying her bills, but often found herself in her overdraft or spending 
most of her disposable income by the end of the month. Lloyds asked Miss K if she had any 
vulnerabilities such as mental health issues that might impact how she managed her money. 
Miss K shared details about her past challenges with her mental health, ongoing memory 
problems and dyslexia.
Lloyds offered to help by suspending interest and charges across Miss Ks overdraft, loan, 
and credit card accounts for 30 days. Miss K was told that she also wouldnt be able to use 
her credit card during this time. Lloyds suggested Miss K visit her local branch to review her 
accounts. Lloyds assured Miss K that these steps wouldnt affect her credit file  and Miss K 
accepted the arrangement.
Shortly afterwards Miss Ks credit card limit was reduced and her requests for further 
borrowing were declined.
When Miss K went to her local branch, she says she was told her account was marked as 
being of poor creditworthiness. Miss K felt Lloyds hadnt fully explained the consequences of 
the 30-day hold and must be basing its decisions on false information. Miss K spoke to 
Lloyds about this on several occasions and was given information she felt was wrong or 
confusing, so a complaint was raised.
Lloyds said it offered the 30-day hold to give Miss K time to consider how better to manage 
her money. Lloyds said this hadnt affected Miss Ks credit file. It had placed an internal 
marker on Miss Ks account to help its agents identify that additional support may be 
needed, or that further borrowing may not be appropriate. Lloyds said it was a business 
decision to decline Miss Ks lending applications and didnt agree this was entirely because 
of the marker. However, Lloyds agreed it could have better tailored its support, so it offered 
Miss K £100 to put things right. Unhappy with this, Miss K referred the matter to our service.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 November 2022 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Miss Ks complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, Ive only looked at events that happened up until the date of Lloyds final 
response letter issued on 31 August 2021.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Miss Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds says that when Miss K first contacted it to ask for help with managing her money 
more effectively, it froze interest and charges on her accounts to give her time to assess how 
she might better manage the accounts herself and Miss K agreed to this. However, having 
listened to the call, I think Miss K made it clear that she wasnt in financial difficulty. She 
hadnt fallen behind with her repayments and there was nothing to suggest she would have 
struggled to continue to meet them. She was often paying more than her minimum 
contractual repayments. Miss K made it clear she was only struggling to manage the money 
that was left over after paying her monthly bills. 
I appreciate that Lloyds intention was to help Miss K. However, the support Lloyds chose to 
provide seemed better suited to a customer in financial hardship, rather than Miss K who 
was struggling to manage her discretionary spending. This resulted in some unintended 
consequences, resulting in a lot of confusion and frustration for Miss K. I also think Lloyds 
communication with Miss K should have been clearer. 
Correspondence from Lloyds
Miss K has raised concerns that Lloyds recorded incorrect information about her which she 
says is fraudulent. Having reviewed all the information available to me, Im not persuaded 
this is the case. However, I do understand why Miss K is under the impression that it did. 
I can see Lloyds sent Miss K several letters when it applied the 30-day hold on her account 
and when it removed it. These look like standard letters that didnt fit Miss Ks situation. For 
example, on 28 May 2021 Miss K was sent a letter saying: Weve frozen interest on your 
overdraft for the time being. As youre in financial difficulty, weve stopped charging interest 
on your arranged overdraft for now. At the top of the letter it says the balance is £-
1,121.95 and the amount due is £0.00.
I can see why this letter may have led Miss K to believe that Lloyds was saying she owed 
over a thousand pounds on her overdraft. But I think the negative balance actually meant her 
current account was over a thousand pounds in credit at the time the letter was sent. Her 
bank statement shows she had a balance of £1,121.95 on that date.
Letters dated 6 August and 20 August 2021 informing her that her arranged overdraft 
interest rate was returning to normal say: To help you repay the unarranged overdraft on 
your account, we temporarily stopped charging interest on your arranged overdraft. Again, 
this letter didnt fit Miss Ks circumstances because she wasnt in an unarranged overdraft 
when the hold was put on the account. 
So, I think its understandable that Miss K was confused by these letters and Lloyds could 
have done more to explain to her what to expect.
Communication over the phone
Miss K has also complained about difficulties she experienced when speaking to Lloyds over 
the phone. She was concerned to find that her account had been moved to Lloyds 
collections department when she phoned a couple of weeks after the hold was put on her 
account. Lloyds says this department has the ability to apply the 30-day hold, which I can 
understand. But I think it should have done more to explain this to Miss K, who was 
understandably alarmed to be told that her accounts were in collections. 
From what Miss K has said and what Lloyds has noted there also seems to have been some 
confusion about why Miss Ks account was with the collections team. This meant that Miss K 
often had to repeat what shed previously said about her circumstances.Late payment on credit card
In phone conversations, Lloyds told Miss K that shed missed a payment on her credit card, 
but she couldnt remember this happening and it didnt appear on her credit file. Ive 
reviewed Miss Ks account history and it looks like no payment was made to her credit card 
in January 2021. Lloyds system notes suggest the direct debit set up to pay her credit card 
didnt go through because she was very close to her overdraft limit. I found another direct 
debit was also returned around that time. Lloyds has provided a letter dated 22 January 
2021 informing Miss K of the missed payment, but I cant see that it recorded this with the 
credit reference agencies. On balance, I think Miss K did miss this payment. By sending the 
letter to Miss K, I think Lloyds did enough to notify her, but I think Lloyds could have done 
more to explain what had happened after she queried this over the phone.
Internal marker
In its final response to Miss Ks complaint Lloyds said it had applied an internal marker to 
help it identify when additional support may be required or when further lending may not be 
suitable. It said it would remove the marker once her accounts continued to be managed 
well. 
Lloyds says it removed the marker the same day the final response was sent. However, it 
hasnt been able to persuasively explain why it was added in the first place. While I 
understand why it may have been appropriate for Lloyds to add an internal marker to show 
Miss K had requested help managing her money, I think Lloyds should have explained this 
more clearly to Miss K to better manage her expectations when it came to further borrowing.
Miss K believes the only reason she wasnt able to increase her overdraft limit and top up 
her loan was because of the hold Lloyds applied to her account. Lloyds says no applications 
are guaranteed and a number of factors are considered. Lloyds has also said that this 
particular marker prevents overdraft limit increases, so I think its likely to have affected the 
outcome of Miss Ks overdraft applications. But I cant say whether those applications would 
have been accepted without the marker, for the same reason Lloyds has given  that a 
number of other factors are taken into account when a business decides whether or not to 
lend. Miss K says she didnt go ahead with her loan application because she was worried it 
would also be declined. But, again, I cant say whether that application would have been 
accepted, for the same reason.
Credit card limit reduction
Miss K has said shes unhappy with Lloyds decision to reduce her credit card limit. She says 
Lloyds didnt make it clear that this could happen. Businesses are generally allowed to lower 
credit limits and there can be several reasons for this. In this case, Lloyds has said that it 
told Miss K that it might review her limit, and it reduced the limit in order to abide by its 
obligations as a responsible lender. The terms of Miss Ks account also allowed Lloyds to do 
this. Having listened to the May 2021 call, Im satisfied Lloyds told Miss K that the hold might 
trigger a review of her limit. So, on balance, I think Lloyds acted reasonably by reducing the 
limit. 
Conclusion
 
Overall, I think Lloyds wanted to help Miss K but didnt properly tailor or explain its support. 
This led to a number of actions and conversations that caused Miss K confusion and 
frustration over a sustained period of time. I think this particularly affected Miss K because of 
her memory problems, which Lloyds was aware of. Miss K had also made Lloyds aware that 
shed experienced mental health issues in the past and her finances were a big part of these. She says she broke into tears on several occasions whilst on the phone to Lloyds. So, 
based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to direct Lloyds to pay Miss K £300 in total to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced. This includes the 
£100 Lloyds has already offered her in relation to this complaint.
I set out what I intended to direct Lloyds to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Miss K and Lloyds both agreed with the findings Id reached in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agree with the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change them. 
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Miss K a total of £300 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ks complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to 
put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman