DRN-3431747
The complaint
Mr P complains that AFH Independent Financial Services Limited (AFH) provided him with 
unsuitable advice about the transfer of some pension benefits to a new self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) in May 2014.
What happened
Mr P has been assisted in making his complaint by a firm of solicitors. But, for ease, in this 
decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and from, Mr P 
himself.
Mr P met with AFH in May 2014. The records from the time suggest that the meeting was 
intended to review Mr Ps provision for his retirement. At that time Mr P was aged 48 and 
living with his partner and their teenage daughter. He had what appears to be a deferred 
occupational pension from a previous employer, and further pension savings held within a 
stakeholder scheme. The advice he received from AFH only related to his pension savings 
held in the stakeholder plan.
AFH recommended that Mr P move his pension savings from the stakeholder plan into a 
new SIPP. It said that the stakeholder plan didnt offer a sufficient range of investment funds 
to allow a suitably diverse portfolio to be constructed. And it noted that it didnt offer the 
flexible retirement benefits Mr P would expect to need at retirement. 
AFH did note in its suitability report that the costs of using the SIPP arrangement, including 
its ongoing advice fee, would be greater than Mr P was already paying. But it says that those 
additional charges could have been recouped by better investment performance. AFH 
measured Mr Ps attitude to risk as being 3, on a scale of 1 to 5. Mr P accepted AFHs 
recommendation and moved his pension savings to the new SIPP. I understand that around 
two years later Mr P decided to transfer his pension savings once again  but AFH was not 
involved in that transfer.
Mr Ps complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think the 
recommendation AFH had given to Mr P had been suitable. He didnt see any reasoning to 
suggest why the investment funds offered by the stakeholder plan were insufficient for Mr P. 
And given the extended period left until Mr Ps retirement he thought any decisions about 
flexibility would have been better taken nearer the time. So he thought that, had AFH 
provided Mr P with suitable advice, hed have left his pension savings within the stakeholder 
plan. So our investigator asked AFH to pay Mr P some compensation.
AFH didnt agree with that assessment. It said that its fact find identified that Mr P was 
prepared to take on extra charges for the potential of a greater return. It said that he had a 
detailed understanding of the risks involved in the transfer as a result of his job. It said that 
its financial planning report clearly set out the costs involved in the transfer and the 
additional investment returns that would be required. And AFH concluded that any losses 
Mr P now faces are as a direct result of his decision to further transfer his pension savings 
without the advice of AFH.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr P accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr P and by AFH. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The applicable rules, regulations, and requirements 
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time AFH advised Mr P were set 
out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like AFH, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements of COBS 9.2.2R, 
AFH needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met 
Mr Ps objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the 
requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. 
Mr P has said that the information that AFH gathered showed a significant inaccuracy. AFH 
recorded that Mr P was self-employed as a currency trader. And in its responses to our 
investigators assessment it has used that information to support a conclusion that Mr P 
would have been well aware of the risks he was taking by agreeing to transfer in order to 
potentially achieve greater investment returns.
But Mr P says that the information about his employment was incorrect. He says that whilst 
he had previously undertaken some currency trading activity, his main employment was as 
the owner of a gift and sweet shop. And he says that later, after suffering from ill-health, he 
took a role as a caretaker, that he still holds today.
In some circumstances the difference between those two accounts might be significant and 
warrant greater investigation. However here, for the reasons I will now go on to set out, 
I dont think I need to explore in greater detail what Mr Ps employment circumstances were 
at the time the advice was given.Mr P was seeking advice, and a recommendation, from AFH. It was AFH that was the expert 
when looking at the pros and cons of the transfer, and how Mr P could best use his pension 
savings to provide for him when he retired. Whilst it needed to ensure that it gave full and 
detailed information to Mr P to support its recommendation, it was primarily responsible for 
ensuring that the advice it gave was suitable for Mr Ps circumstances. So whilst Mr P may, 
or may not, have had some financial experience he was entitled to rely on the advice that 
AFH gave to him when deciding how to proceed.
AFH advised Mr P to move his pension savings into a new SIPP. It said that his existing 
stakeholder plan could not provide the range of investments that would be needed to 
construct a suitable diverse portfolio. But I havent seen anything that sets out in any level of 
detail why AFH thought that was the case. Its notes from the time suggest that the 
stakeholder plan offered up to 23 different investment funds that Mr P could use  and that 
at the time of the advice he was using ten of them. It doesnt seem to me that there was 
anything unusual about Mr Ps circumstances that he might have needed more bespoke 
investment funds, or significant additional diversity.
By agreeing to transfer his pension savings, Mr P needed to pay a fee of 2% of their value to 
AFH. I understand that fee was only due if he agreed to the transfer, so there was a clear 
conflict of interest in the advice that AFH gave. Without recommending the transfer took 
place, AFH would not receive a fee for its advice.
AFHs analysis showed that the charges Mr P would need to pay following the transfer would 
be much higher than those he was paying on his stakeholder plan. On his current plan AFH 
identified that Mr P was paying an annual management charge of 1%. If he agreed to the 
transfer to the SIPP Mr P would need to pay an average fund management charge of 0.84% 
plus a charge of 0.4% to the SIPP administrator. And AFH would add its own on-going 
management charge (in addition to the 2% initial advice charge) of 0.75% per annum. 
Overall AFH calculated that Mr Ps pension investments would need to return an additional 
1.37% per annum to recoup the additional charges.
I think it is reasonable to conclude that the information AFH provided did make these 
charges differences clear. But I dont think that is the end of the matter. AFH was providing 
Mr P with advice, and needed to ensure the approach it recommended would be in his best 
interests. I havent seen anything that persuades me AFH had any evidence-based 
expectation that the transfer to the SIPP would result in Mr P being better off. It is clear that 
the charges would be higher. I dont think there were any reasonable grounds to conclude 
that the alternative investment approach it was recommending would produce sufficient 
excess returns to justify those additional charges.
AFH also noted that the stakeholder pension didnt offer the flexible retirement benefits Mr P 
would expect to need at retirement. Again, I havent seen any contemporaneous evidence to 
support that conclusion. Mr P was aged 48 at the time. I doubt that he had a clear 
understanding of when he would retire, let alone what form he might want his retirement 
benefits to take. I agree with our investigator that any decisions intended to provide the basis 
on which Mr P might take his retirement benefits would have been better taken nearer to the 
time of his retirement. At that point Mr P would be able to better articulate his needs in 
retirement, and the regulatory landscape would be set. I dont think that there was any need 
to transfer Mr Ps pension savings, for this reason, from the stakeholder scheme at that time.
Overall I dont think it was appropriate for AFH to advise Mr P to transfer his pension savings 
into the SIPP. I havent seen anything to persuade me that he needed the additional 
flexibility and investment funds that the SIPP would offer to him. And Im not persuaded that 
any investment performance improvements would have been sufficient to outweigh the significant additional charges Mr P would need to pay. So I think that Mr Ps complaint 
should be upheld and AFH needs to put things right.
As part of its submissions to us AFH has said that Mr Ps losses have arisen from his 
decision to make a further transfer of his pension savings from the SIPP it recommended. 
I dont agree with that conclusion  it was AFHs advice that led to Mr P moving his pension 
savings to the SIPP and it is at that point that his losses arose. But I accept that AFH 
shouldnt continue to carry responsibility for Mr Ps pension savings once he had made a 
further decision on their investment without the involvement of AFH. So my redress below 
will only cover the period between the transfer into the SIPP in June 2014, and the transfer 
out of the pension savings in March 2016.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr P should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr P would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot 
be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. 
I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and 
given Mr P's circumstances and objectives when he was advised to make the transfer.
What must AFH do?
To compensate Mr P fairly, AFH must:
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
AFH should add interest if necessary as set out below:
AFH should pay into Mr P's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If AFH is unable to pay the total amount into Mr P's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr P wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr P's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr P would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.Should this compensation not be paid with 28 days of AFH being informed of Mr Ps 
acceptance of my final decision, simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum should be 
added to the compensation due from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If AFH deducts income tax from the interest 
it should tell Mr P how much has been taken off. AFH should give Mr P a tax deduction 
certificate in respect of interest if Mr P asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus BenchmarkFrom 
(start date)To 
(end date)Additional 
investment returns
Transact 
SIPPTransferred 
outNotional 
value from 
previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of 
transfer outIn line with the 
growth on the 
consumers current 
pension from 
3 March 2016 to 
the date of this 
final decision
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr P's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. AFH should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the Transact SIPP should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if AFH totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the 
end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, AFH will need to determine a 
fair value for Mr P's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair 
value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr P's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that AFH Independent Financial Services Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above. AFH Independent Financial Services 
Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr P in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman