DRN-3672782
The complaint
Miss M complains that after she made overpayments to her mortgage in 2020 that her
contractual monthly payments (CMP) were reduced by Yorkshire Building Society in its
annual review in 2021. Miss M says that she has been penalised covertly. Her
understanding was that during the fixed term period her CMPs would remain the same. Miss
M wants the term to be reduced so that she can make the higher payments that she hoped
to make.
What happened
Miss M took out a mortgage with Yorkshire in 2020. Miss M has a mortgage product which
allows her to make overpayments to reduce the outstanding balance by up to 10% per year.
Although its a fixed interest rate product for a fixed term, the CMPs are reviewed in January
each year to take effect in March. In 2020 Miss Ms CMP was £399.33 per month. She also
made overpayments. In the January 2021 review Yorkshire advised Miss M that going
forward her payments would be reduced to £359.16. Miss M complained saying that that this
wasnt her understanding of how the mortgage product worked.
Yorkshire says that it tried to contact Miss M and sent a final response letter, but Miss M
says that she didnt receive it. Yorkshire in its letter set out that it was an annual review
company and that Miss M should contact the company at each account review to ensure that
the payment arrangement continues to meet their requirements.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She felt that when Miss
M contacted Yorkshire in January 2021 that it failed to explain her options to her including
that she could maintain her existing CMP if she chose to reduce her mortgage term. Our
investigator felt that Yorkshire should rework Miss Ms mortgage as if her overpayments
were used to decrease the term of the mortgage rather than her CMP taking into
consideration Miss Ms payments from 2020 together with a payment for distress and
inconvenience of £150.
Yorkshire disagreed saying in summary that Miss M misunderstood how her mortgage
worked and didnt say that she wanted to reduce the mortgage term. Yorkshire also objected 
to taking the overpayments made in 2020 into consideration in a complaint that related to 
January 2021 and that Yorkshire is physically unable to temporarily change a mortgage term 
as its subject to an income and expenditure assessment and an advice process
My provisional findings
As my view differed from that of our investigator, I issued a Provisional Decision as follows:
Miss Ms expectations for her mortgage product was that she would be able to continue
making the same monthly payments as she had done before and not be reduced because of
the overpayments she had made. She was therefore shocked and annoyed when this
happened and felt that by reducing the CMPs that she was being penalised by Yorkshire as
it reduced her ability to make overpayments. But Yorkshire says that her expectations of how
the mortgage worked wasnt actually how it worked and although this was a fixed interest
rate mortgage product, the payments wouldnt be fixed but subject to an annual review when
the payments would change depending on the remaining outstanding balance.
I can see Yorkshires point. Thats the mortgage Miss M took out even if she expected
something different. But then when Miss M got notification of the new CMP following the
monthly review, she contacted Yorkshire to express her dissatisfaction. I listened to that call
and I noted that the Yorkshire adviser whilst acknowledging her complaint and pointing out
that Yorkshire operated by way of annual review, didnt seek to deal with the source of her
dissatisfaction or direct her to others in the Society who could assist.
Our investigator understood from talking to Miss M that she wanted to maintain the same
CMP to allow her more room to make overpayments with the object of shortening the
mortgage term. Yorkshires Terms and Conditions suggest two ways of dealing with this.
Firstly, by contacting Yorkshire to change the term and as its a change in the contractual
term, it would be done on an advised basis with an affordability check. Or, alternatively, to
register a static payment which again requires contact with Yorkshire at Annual Review.
Our investigators view was influenced by the fact that Miss M clearly explained what she
wanted to achieve and so Yorkshire should have been able to elicit the same information as
to what her objectives were. Our investigator suggested that Yorkshire should rework Miss
Ms mortgage as if her overpayments were used to decrease the term of the mortgage rather
than her contractual monthly payments, taking Miss Ms overpayments from 2020 into
consideration.
I agree with our investigator that Yorkshire should have recognised what Miss M was trying
to achieve and facilitate her to do that but within the terms of how the product that Miss M
purchased operated. So, I agree that the complaint should be upheld and that an award of
£150 seems appropriate for Miss Ms distress and inconvenience.
Turning to the appropriate way to deal with the issue now, the problem is that Yorkshire
missed this opportunity in 2021 to advise Miss M and I have to decide what was likely to
have happened if that occurred. I believe that Miss M is likely to have wanted to maintain the
payments that she was making and to foreshorten the mortgage term based on that.
Yorkshire says that this can be done on an advised basis and that affordability checks may
be required (see page 25 of terms and conditions)
But weve gone past the date when that advice and affordability assessment should have
been done. The reason for the affordability assessment is to determine whether Miss M
could afford the £399.33 monthly payments going forward. As our investigator indicated Miss
M passed an affordability assessment just a year previously in 2020 and could afford the
payment of £399.33 and nothing had changed since. The problem is that if the term is
reduced and interest rates go up as they are beginning to do, that there is the potential for
Miss M to have to make payments in the future that may be unaffordable and I believe that in
order to make that decision she should get advice and an assessment as to its affordability
going forward.
So, whilst I am sympathetic to Miss M and I intend to uphold this complaint, I dont want her
to miss out on the opportunity to get advice and want to avoid putting her in a potentially
worse position than she would be in without that advice. This is a point that Yorkshire raised
in response to our investigators view. So, Im going to suggest the following way to resolve
the matter which differs from that proposed by our investigator but seems a fair resolution:
1. If Miss M wants to shorten the term of her mortgage, she should make application toYorkshire in accordance with Yorkshires terms and conditions. I would ask Yorkshire to
make an adviser available to Miss M and let our investigator know who Miss M is to
contact.
2. If, following this advice, Miss M wants to proceed with shortening the mortgage term and
Yorkshire considers she is eligible, Yorkshire should apply to the shortening of the term
any overpayments that Miss M made from January 2021 until now. Unlike our
investigator, I dont believe that its appropriate that the overpayments before 2021
should be used as Yorkshire had done nothing wrong before then but were simply
allocating the payments to the mortgage balance in accordance with the terms of the
mortgage.
3. If, following this process, either Miss M doesnt want to proceed or she is ineligible and
the term is not shortened, any overpayments Miss M has made to this date should be
applied to the reduction of the mortgage balance. If these overpayments have exceeded
the allowable limit under the terms of the mortgage and would have led to an early
repayment charge (ERC) I would expect Yorkshire not to raise such a charge. This is to
avoid any unfairness because of the application having to be made now rather than in
January 2021. Of course, any overpayments in the future beyond those allowed by the
terms of the mortgage would attract such ERCs.
4. Yorkshire should pay Miss M £150 for her distress and inconvenience.
I then issued this provisional decision and invited comments from Miss M and Yorkshire 
before coming to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Miss M told me that she didnt want compensation but 
was grateful for the offer of £150. As Miss M had not exceeded the 10% overpayment she 
felt that no action was needed but would like to discuss her mortgage lifespan at no cost to 
her. Yorkshire was concerned that part of my provisional decision didnt reflect properly what 
the contact notes said and asked me to confirm if I believed that Miss M was reasonably 
aware as to how the overpayments worked before 2021.
After considering the further submissions from Miss M and Yorkshire and reviewing the 
complaint I believe that my provisional decision represents a fair outcome to this complaint. 
The section of my provisional decision that Yorkshire asked me to review appears in the 
background section of the complaint in which I was setting out Yorkshires objections to our 
investigators views. Im content to remove it but it doesnt lead me to a different conclusion 
as to why I should uphold this complaint. Yorkshire has asked me to comment on the state 
of Miss Ms understanding of how overpayments worked before 2021 but this complaint 
deals with the issues she encountered in 2021 and I have not investigated her state of 
knowledge before that date as I believe that I can come to a fair decision without further 
investigation about that. For the above reasons I uphold this complaint.  
Putting things right
1. If Miss M wants to shorten the term of her mortgage, she should make application to
Yorkshire in accordance with Yorkshires terms and conditions. I would ask Yorkshire to
make an adviser available to Miss M and let our investigator know who Miss M is to
contact.2. If, following this advice, Miss M wants to proceed with shortening the mortgage term and
Yorkshire considers she is eligible, Yorkshire should apply to the shortening of the term
any overpayments that Miss M made from January 2021 until now. 
3. If, following this process, either Miss M doesnt want to proceed or she is ineligible and
the term is not shortened, any overpayments Miss M has made to this date should be
applied to the reduction of the mortgage balance. If these overpayments have exceeded
the allowable limit under the terms of the mortgage and would have led to an early
repayment charge (ERC) I would expect Yorkshire not to raise such a charge. This is to
avoid any unfairness because of the application having to be made now rather than in
January 2021. Of course, any overpayments in the future beyond those allowed by the
terms of the mortgage would attract such ERCs.
4. Yorkshire should pay Miss M £150 for her distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Yorkshire Building Society to take the action referred to 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman