DRN-4008167
The complaint
Mr and Ms B complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly refused 
to provide funding under their legal expenses insurance policy. 
Whilst this policy is in joint names, Ill mainly refer to Ms B as this is her claim.
What happened
In April 2022, Ms B made a claim to RSAs claims handlers  who Ill refer to as A. Her 
claim form said that she had an ongoing case in the Employment Tribunal (ET) which was 
listed for a ten-day hearing later that year. But that shed been notified of a judicial mediation 
preliminary hearing listed for May for which she needed to submit requested evidence. She 
asked for cover under the policy for legal advice, help in preparation, and representation at 
the mediation hearing.
Six working days later, and three working days before the mediation hearing, A informed 
Ms B that shed need to contact RSAs previous claims handlers  who Ill refer to as D. A 
explained they took over as claims handlers for new business policies and renewals from 
1 November 2018 and as Ms Bs claim arose from a series of events dating back to 2015, it 
would fall within the period when D was dealing with claims.
Ms B says that due to the short time frames involved, she didnt have the opportunity to 
dispute As response. She attended the mediation hearing, which was successful, and a 
settlement was reached. After this, she raised a complaint to A on the basis that her claim 
related to mediation for her 2021 ET claim and didnt include any events prior to November 
2018, so they were wrong to refer her to D instead of providing cover.
A rejected the complaint on the basis that D were already dealing with claims against the 
same employer for the same series of events, and this claim appeared to be a continuation. 
So it was more appropriate for Ms B to refer this claim to D as the series of events giving rise 
to the claim occurred whilst they were the claims handlers. 
Ms B brought her complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. He was 
satisfied Ms Bs claim arose from a series of events dating back to Ds period of cover and 
that it was appropriate for A to refer her to them for this claim. As Ms B didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that A took over as RSAs claims handlers for new business policies and 
renewals on or after 1 November 2018. As Ms Bs policy renews in August of each year, this 
means A became the claims handlers for her policy from the renewal of August 2019 
onwards.
Looking at Ms Bs claim, I can see that shes had several disputes with this employer dating 
back to 2015 when she issued ET proceedings for discrimination and equal pay. In 2021, Ms 
B made claims for harassment and then later, for unfair dismissal, amongst other heads of 
claim. She says she was seeking cover from A for the mediation hearing only which arose 
solely from her 2021 ET claim for unfair dismissal. 
But having reviewed the file, I can see that Ms Bs claim for unfair dismissal arises from a 
series of events dating back to 2018 when she objected to a company policy and refused to 
comply. She raised an alleged protected disclosure as a result in 2020, which she believes 
are grounds for her dismissal. So I dont think it was unreasonable for A to conclude that the 
series of events giving rise to the 2021 claim  and the mediation hearing  began prior to 
their period of cover.
Ultimately, Ms B has renewed her policy with RSA each year and she shouldnt be 
disadvantaged by a change in claims handlers.  
But Ms B made a claim to D for her 2021 claims, and whilst the outcomes of those claims 
are not the subject of this complaint, Im aware that D accepted they fell within their period of 
cover and considered them under the policy terms and conditions. As such, when Ms B 
required funding for the mediation hearing for these claims  which itself is not a new claim 
but rather a continuation of the ongoing court action  its not clear why she approached A 
instead of reverting to D. 
So I dont think Ms B has been disadvantaged by RSAs change of claims handler. Im 
satisfied she was aware that D were taking responsibility for the 2021 claims under their 
period of insurance and its not clear why she considered a hearing to be a new claim. 
I think it wouldve been better customer service if A had forwarded Ms Bs claim onto D for 
her. But even if they had, I dont think it wouldve changed anything. I say this because given 
the short timescales involved, its likely Ms B wouldve needed to deal with the mediation 
herself. And she didnt accept that D were the correct claims handlers in any event.
Based on the information Ive seen, Im not persuaded that A  on behalf of RSA  did 
anything wrong or unfair when handling Ms Bs claim for funding of the hearing and that it 
was reasonable for A to conclude that the claim was more appropriately referred to D. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman