DRN-2194412
The complaint
Ms B complains about the way in which Capquest Debt Recovery Limited (which Ill call 
CDR) has chased her for payment of a debt bought from Halifax. 
What happened
In or about June 2013 Halifax, part of Lloyds Banking Group, sold to Capquest Investments 
Limited (CIL) a debt which it said Ms B owed. CIL told Ms B that it had bought the debt and 
that CDR had been appointed to manage it. The total balance sold by Halifax was nearly 
£8,300.
Ms B says she had asked Halifax to write off the debt in 2013, but it hadnt done so. Her 
representative had explained even before that that she was unable to deal with the debt. 
CDR says it sent letters chasing the debt for some years, but it doesnt appear that Ms B 
received them. She wasnt aware until about May 2019 that she was being pursued for the 
debt. 
In July 2019 CIL began court proceedings for the recovery of the debt, since neither it nor 
CDR had received any contact from Ms B in response to correspondence about it. Ms B filed 
a defence to the court action, but also complained to this service about how shed been 
treated. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but didnt think Ms B had been 
treated unfairly. He noted that Halifax wouldnt have passed on any details about the 
difficulties Ms B was experiencing when it sold the debt and that it had been some years 
before she had got in touch. 
Whilst Ms B had complained about letters chasing the debt after Ms B had complained, the 
investigator noted that only one had been sent  and that was necessary to comply with 
regulatory requirements. Overall, the investigator didnt consider that CDR had acted 
unreasonably in the way it had chased Ms B for repayment of the debt but noted that now 
Ms B had explained her situation in more detail, it should be possible to consider appropriate 
options. Ms B didnt accept that she had been treated fairly and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, 
and for similar reasons. 
I should explain that Ive considered here only the actions of CDR in pursuing payment of the 
debt, not the actions of CIL as assignee of it. Indeed, I have no power to consider CILs 
actions here, since it didnt lend the money to Ms B and appointed CDR to try to recover it on 
its behalf. 
As the investigator noted, CDR doesnt appear to have been told by Halifax what Ms Bs 
situation was in 2013 and so couldnt be expected to respond to it. But in any event, it 
contacted Ms B in an attempt to discuss appropriate arrangements but received no 
meaningful response. 
Ms B and her representative have explained her financial and health situations, and I dont 
need to repeat them here. She has my sympathy, however, and I would expect her to be 
treated positively and sympathetically. But I also share the investigators view that CDR 
hasnt acted unreasonably and so I wont be recommending any further action on its part.         
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Capquest Debt Recovery Limited to take any further 
steps to resolve Ms Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman