DRN-2709687
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs P complain about how Kensington Mortgage Company Limited treated them 
when they applied for a payment holiday. 
What happened
In March 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced measures aimed to help 
mortgage borrowers during the Coronavirus pandemic. One of these measures was to be 
able to take a mortgage payment holiday, initially for up to three months, without it impacting 
the borrowers credit history. 
Mr and Mrs P say they wrote to Kensington in March to ask for a payment holiday in March 
2020. They say they didnt know anything was wrong until they were contacted by 
Kensington in May 2020 when they were told that they were in two months arrears. Mr and 
Mrs P made a payment for March and Kensington backdated the payment holiday as if it had 
started in April. 
In the coming weeks Mr and Mrs P say they realised things wouldnt be as bad for them as 
they had first thought, so they decided to bring their payments up to date as if they had 
never had a payment holiday. However, they say their credit file is showing a missed 
mortgage payment. So, they complained to Kensington.
Kensington didnt uphold their complaint. It said they didnt speak to Mr and Mrs P until May 
2020 by which time two payments had been missed. And whilst it had agreed to backdate 
the payment holiday to April, it couldnt do this back to March. It said it had no record of Mr 
and Mrs P writing to them to request a payment holiday in March 2020.
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy and referred the complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it and thought Kensington should have backdated the payment holiday to March 
2020. Kensington didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. So its 
been passed to me to consider and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The FCA issued its guidance to mortgage lenders in response to the Coronavirus pandemic. 
This had clearly had a quick and substantial impact on the economy with the UK going into 
lockdown towards the end of March 2020. I understand Mr and Mrs P wanted to apply for the 
payment holiday as they thought their finances may be significantly affected. And this is 
something they were entitled to ask Kensington for and something it shouldve agreed to.
Its unclear when exactly Mr and Mrs P wrote to Kensington to request the payment holiday. 
And Kensington says it has no record of receiving a written request from Mr and Mrs P. Mr 
and Mrs P say they sent it and assumed everything was ok as they didnt hear anything 
back. Whilst it mayve been better if Mr and Mrs P had followed up their request after getting 
no response, these were unusual and stressful times for many people. I suspect Mr and Mrs 
P, like many others, wouldve had a number of other worries at this time as well. 
When Mr and Mrs P did speak with Kensington in May, it said it would back date the 
payment holiday for one month, but not for two. Its also told us that had it spoken with Mr 
and Mrs P in April, it wouldve backdated the payment holiday as if it had started from March. 
It hasnt clearly explained its reasons for this though. Whilst Kensington did write to Mr and 
Mrs P when their direct debit failed in March, it didnt explain that their mortgage account 
was now in arrears. So, I can see why they mayve thought they were in a payment holiday 
arrangement. Kensington didnt make Mr and Mrs P aware that they were in arrears until 
May. At this point Mr P made the full payment for March. Following this, once they realised 
they werent going to be as financially affected as they first thought, they brought all of their 
payments up to date. And theyve continued to maintain their monthly mortgage payments 
ever since.
As Ive said, these were exceptional times, and I think Kensington shouldve shown more 
flexibility and empathy to Mr and Mrs P. Its clear there was some confusion on Mr and Mrs 
Ps part, and I agree they couldve done more to contact Kensington. But at the same time, 
they wouldve been entitled to a payment holiday had they called and requested one in 
March. They say they wrote to Kensington and I have no reason to disbelieve this. Post was 
substantially affected at this point in the pandemic and this may explain why Kensington 
didnt receive their letter. But I dont think Mr and Mrs P should be penalised for this. So, I 
think its fair and reasonable in these individual circumstances for Kensington to treat their 
account as if they had been given a payment holiday from March 2020. 
Putting things right
Kensington should treat Mr and Mrs Ps account as if a payment holiday had been applied 
for and granted in March 2020 (even though theyve since brought it up to date) which will 
mean updating their credit file so that it shows as it wouldve done had a payment holiday 
been in place from March 2020.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct 
Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman