DRN-4433235
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the advice he received from Origen Financial Services Limited 
to transfer his defined benefit (DB) pension.
What happened
Mr M was a member of a former employers DB pension scheme. In 2017 the scheme sent 
him a personal statement which said:
if he retired on 31 October 2017 he could
oreceive an annual pension of £9,197 or
otake £32,774 as a lump sum tax-free cash payment and receive an annual 
pension of £7,415
if he wanted to transfer the pension it had a transfer value of £242,079.
The scheme outlined various options if Mr M transferred the pension and said it would pay 
for any advice Mr M needed.
On 22 January 2018 Origens advisor called Mr M and discussed the schemes offer and 
Mr Ms objectives and financial position. Although he said he was in two minds, Mr M said 
that after talking to different people he had two main thoughts:
1. his initial thought was to work until he was 66 and then take an income from the DB 
pension of about £10,000 a year; and in the meantime he would drawdown a regular 
amount from a defined contribution (DC) pension he held
2. but he then wondered about combining the two pensions, taking a lump sum payment of 
about £60,000 and having an annual pension from now of about £10,000.
During the call Mr M confirmed:
he was looking to take benefits from his pension now as a lump sum and an annuity
he was more interested in annual income of £10,000 rather than a massive lump sum
his target combined (ie with his wifes) net annual retirement income at 65 was £18,000
he wasnt a risk taker.
The advisor summarised the situation as Mr M:
wanting a secure income for the rest of his life as soon as possible
taking a lump sum tax-free cash payment for some home improvements, a new car and 
some holidays
and then having a combined ongoing income in addition to State pension for the rest of 
his and his wifes lives.
Origen also obtained a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report. Amongst other things, this 
said the DB scheme would pay Mr M:
Age pension taken Full pension Reduced pension with tax-free 
cash taken
61 £10,158 £7,637 and £45,095 cash
65
(the normal retirement age)£14,445 £10,217 and £68,112 cash
On 30 January 2018 Origen sent Mr M its recommendation report. This confirmed Mr Ms 
objectives as outlined above and his targeted net household retirement income as £18,000. 
Origen recommended that Mr M transfer the DB pension, take £60,520 as tax-free cash and 
then buy an annuity paying him £8,571 per year for the rest of his life. Alongside the State 
pension Mr and Mrs M would receive, this would give a household retirement income of just 
over £25,000.
The advisor spoke with Mr M the next day. Mr M said he was pleased the recommendation 
increased the amount of tax-free cash he could take, although he wasnt so happy with the 
annuity as he wanted £10,000 a year. He nevertheless felt that having the extra lump sum 
cash payment up front made up for the lower annuity over the years. He therefore told the 
advisor he wanted to proceed with the transfer.
In 2023 Mr M complained to Origen about the advice hed received as he felt it might have 
been unsuitable. He said:
he didnt think the guaranteed, indexed linked payments of the DB pension had been 
properly explained
he was confused by the paperwork (eg the TVAS) hed been sent
the lump sum payment wasnt urgent and he would have been happy to wait five years 
and get a higher tax-free cash payment and higher benefits from the defined benefit 
pension.
Origen looked into the matter but it felt its advice was correct and in line with regulatory 
guidance.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld as she felt the recommendation to 
transfer the DB pension was unsuitable. She didnt think Origen had shown that transferring 
was in Mr Ms best interests eg he had no urgent need for the tax-free cash and he could 
have achieved his desired retirement income from the DB pension.
Origen disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. It said part of its 
overall advice process was to consider Mr Ms needs and objectives. And Mr M said hed 
ideally want to combine his DB pension with the DC one to get around £60,000 in tax-free 
cash for home improvements and a pension of £10,000 a year. Origen said its 
recommendation provided Mr M with an additional £27,746 tax-free cash and a secure 
annual income of £8,571. It also said that as an annuity provides a guaranteed income its 
suitable for consumers with a low attitude to risk and capacity for loss. Overall, Origen 
remained of the view that the advice was suitable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view there are two separate elements to the complaint. The first concerns the advice 
to transfer the DB pension. The second concerns the advice to buy a level annuity (as 
opposed to one that will increase in line with inflation) following the transfer.Advice to transfer
There were various rules and regulations which applied at the time of the advice. I havent 
listed all of them below but the ones I have provide useful context for my assessment of 
Origen's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
the provisions in COBS 9  which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability.
Further, the Financial Conduct Authority, states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Origen should have 
only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that transferring was in Mr Ms best 
interests. Having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was.
An issue I usually consider in complaints like this is whether a consumer is likely to be better 
off in retirement if they transferred their DB pension and left the funds invested until their 
likely retirement date. A consumers attitude to risk and their capacity to absorb any loss of 
their pension is a factor in deciding this. However, I dont think this issue is particularly 
important in this case because Mr M transferred the DB pension and bought an annuity 
straightaway. So I dont need to compare, for example, how much the new pension would 
need to grow by to match the benefit the DB pension would pay at age 65. I think whats 
more important is a comparison between what the DB pension would pay at the date of 
transfer and what Mr M would receive by transferring and buying the annuity.
In that regard the advisor highlighted in the recommendation report that by transferring and 
buying the annuity Mr M would receive £27,746 more tax-free cash and around £1,100 more 
annual pension compared to what the DB pension would pay at the same time. However, 
what he failed to highlight was that by transferring and buying the annuity Mr M would 
receive around £7,500 less tax-free cash and around £1,600 less annual pension compared 
to what the DB pension would pay him at age 65 (which was only a few years away). He 
also failed to highlight that the gap between the annual pensions would get wider for the 
remainder of Mr Ms life.
It doesnt surprise me that Mr M might have found this extra income attractive  particularly 
given what he told the advisor about home improvements, a new car and some holidays. But 
the advisors role wasnt just to recommend a course of action that allowed Mr M to do what 
he wanted to do  it was to recommend what would be in his best interests. And advice isnt 
deemed suitable just because it allows a consumer to do something they want  because 
what a consumer wants to do might be completely unsuitable or unaffordable.
In my view, the two main factors behind the advisors recommendation were that Mr M would 
have immediate cash available and that he would have his desired retirement income at age 
66. However, using the figures available, I think Mr M could have easily achieved his desired 
retirement income by remaining in the DB scheme  £10,217 from the DB pension and 
£16,640 from the combined State pensions. And, of course, all of that income would have 
increased every year to offset the effects of inflation.It wasnt established whether Mr M merely wanted the tax-free cash or needed it. Most, if not 
all, of the discussion in this respect was based on what Mr M wanted to do. But I think the 
advisor needed to dive deeper into this in order to understand the situation fully and to make 
a recommendation that was in Mr Ms best interests. But he didnt do so  there was no 
discussion, for example, about the precise nature of the improvements, whether they were a 
necessity, how urgent they were, whether they could wait or whether Mr M could use other 
funds available (eg his other pension) for whatever work was needed there and then.
The advisor made reference to Mr M saying that he might die in five years and therefore him 
wanting access to his pension benefits now. Reference was made in the recommendation 
report to a health scare two years earlier, but as far as I can tell that was in respect of a 
friend dying of cancer and Mr M then changing aspects of his lifestyle. I havent seen any 
reference to it being Mr M who suffered the scare. In fact, his health was described as 
good in the initial telephone conversation and recommendation report. And the advisor 
referred in the telephone conversation to Mr Ms life expectancy to be around 85. So while 
Mr M dying within five years was obviously a possibility (as it is for anyone) it was probable 
given his life expectancy that he wouldnt. So the advisor should have discouraged Mr M 
from making any decision based on him thinking he might only live for a further five years.
Im also not persuaded that Origen gave Mr M sufficient information that was clear, fair and 
not misleading. Ive already mentioned above that the advisor highlighted how much Mr M 
would be better off if he transferred and bought the annuity but he didnt equally highlight 
how much he would be worse off by. I think another example is in respect of the crossover 
point (the point at which the annual DB pension would be more than the annuity) and 
breakeven point (the point at which the total amount Mr M would have received from the DB 
pension exceeded the total amount he received from the annuity). The advisor did say in the 
recommendation report that these points were six and 12 years respectively. But I think this 
should have been put into context by emphasising that Mr Ms life expectancy was expected 
to be 85 years  which is many years after both the crossover and breakeven points.
I accept what Origen has said about an annuity providing a guaranteed income and 
therefore being suitable for someone with a low attitude to risk and being unable to afford to 
lose their pension. However, the same can equally be said about a DB pension. And the DB 
pension has the added benefit of the income increasing every year to offset the effect of 
inflation.
Overall, for the reasons outlined above, I dont think Origen has clearly demonstrated that 
transferring was in Mr Ms best interests. It hasnt shown that Mr M had an immediate need 
for the tax-free cash at the time of the advice or, if there was a need, that it couldnt have 
been obtained by other means. And Mr M could have obtained his desired retirement income 
by remaining in the DB pension. I therefore conclude that Origen should have advised Mr M 
to remain in the DB pension. I think the advice it gave was essentially based on what Mr M 
wanted rather than on what was in his best interests.
Ive considered whether Mr M would have transferred the DB pension anyway, against 
Origens advice had it provided him with sufficiently clear information and advised him as I 
think it should have. I think its unlikely he would have insisted on transferring out of the DB 
pension if Origen had advised him not to. I say this because most consumers are likely to 
follow professional advice given to them. And Mr M was an inexperienced investor with a 
very cautious attitude to risk. So if Origen had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme  including a clear comparison between his income at 65 
(increasing for the remainder of his life) and the annuity income  explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests I think he most likely would have accepted that advice.
Advice to buy a level annuityAs Ive concluded that the advice to transfer the DB pension was unsuitable, Ive not gone 
on to consider this issue because the redress I propose below is designed to place Mr M 
back into the position hed be in now if he hadnt transferred the DB pension.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Origen to put Mr M, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would have most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. I cant 
turn back the clock and I cant unwind the annuity Mr M bought (hes now stuck with that), 
and I cant place him back into the DB pension scheme.
So Origen must undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating redress 
for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set 
out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr M plans to retire at age 66. So, compensation should be based on him taking 
benefits at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Origen should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that
ohis redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
oa straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum
if Mr M accepts Origens offer to calculate how much of the redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, given 
the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Origen may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £190,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £190,000, I may recommend that thebusiness pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Origen Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £190,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £190,000, I also recommend that 
Origen Financial Services Limited pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Origen Financial 
Services Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M 
can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may therefore want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman