DRN-3548255
The complaint
Mr C is a sole trader. He is unhappy with the service he received from The Co-operative 
Bank Plc (Co-op) surrounding an application he made for a business bank account.
What happened
Mr C wanted to apply to Co-op for a Bounce Back Loan for his business. However, one of 
Co-ops requirements for a Bounce Back Loan application was that the applicant business 
must have a Business Bank Account (BBA) with them. Mr C didnt have a BBA with Co-op 
and so applied to them to open one. However, the application process took a long time and 
eventually resulted with Co-op declining his application. Mr C wasnt happy about what had 
happened, and he also wasnt happy with other aspects of the service hed received from 
Co-op during the application process, so he raised a complaint.
Co-op looked at Mr Cs complaint. They confirmed that the BBA application had been 
declined in line with their process, but they acknowledged that Mr C had been provided 
inconsistent information during the application process. Co-op apologised to Mr C for this 
and made a payment of £50 to him as compensation for any trouble or upset he may have 
incurred.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Co-ops response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that Co-ops response to Mr 
Cs complaint already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had happened, 
and so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr C remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C submitted his BBA application on 8 October 2020, and so I can understand why, 
having not heard anything from Co-op by December 2020, how Mr C might have been keen 
to understand whether progress with his application was being made.
However, its evident that when Mr C made his BBA application he was informed by Co-op at 
that time that a high volume of similar applications at that time meant that the application 
assessment process would take at least 12 weeks  which for an application made on 8 
October meant that the application was unlikely to be resolved before the end of the year.
In this instance, Mr Cs application was declined by Co-op on 29 December 2020. This was 
in line with the minimum 12-week timeframe given to Mr C by Co-op at the beginning of the 
application process. And so, given that Co-op completed their assessment of Mr Cs 
application in line with the timeframe given to Mr C by them, I find it difficult to conclude that 
Co-op acted unfairly towards Mr C in regard to the time that the application process took.
Mr C is also unhappy that he received notice from Co-op towards the end of December that 
a new process was being put in place to speed up applications, which Mr C felt was unfair 
for customers such as himself whod had to wait a long time for their applications to be 
resolved. I can appreciate Mr Cs position here, but I can only commend Co-op for taking 
steps to improve the application process for its customers so that wait times were reduced. 
And while I acknowledge that, when considered from Mr Cs perspective, the timing of the 
improvement was unlucky, I dont feel that it was unfair.
Mr C is also unhappy that Co-op declined his application for a BBA, which in turn meant that 
he was unable to apply for a Bounce Bank Loan with them. Again, I can appreciate Mr Cs 
frustration here, but the nature of an application is such that it can be successful or not. And 
in this instance, Im satisfied from the information that Co-op have provided that the 
application didnt meet the criteria required by Co-op in order for it to be approved by them. 
Im also satisfied that Co-op assessed Mr Cs application in the same manner as it assessed 
all new BBA applications at that time, and so consequently Im also satisfied that the result of 
that assessment  that the application was declined  was fairly arrived at by Co-op and that 
Mr C hasnt been treated unfairly by Co-op by their deciding not to approve his application.
I also dont feel that Co-op declining Mr Cs BBA application meant that Co-op were unfairly 
restricting Mr Cs access to the Bounce Back Loan scheme as Mr C has contended. This is 
because Co-op were entitled to require a Bounce Back Loan applicant to have a BBA with 
them and were also entitled to assess new BBA applications according to their own criteria. 
Mr C also retained the option to apply for a Bounce Back Loan with another credit provider if 
he wanted to do so.
Mr C also stated that he wasnt able to apply for a BBA online as he wanted to, and instead 
had to visit a branch to apply there. Its unclear why Mr C wasnt able to apply online, and 
Co-op have confirmed that there werent any issues with their own systems that would have 
prevented Mr C from doing so and that they received applications from other applicants 
online during that time. As such, while I can appreciate how it might have been inconvenient 
for Mr C to have had to have visited a branch in order to make his BBA application, I dont 
feel that Co-op can be reasonably held accountable for that inconvenience. 
Finally, in their response to Mr Cs complaint, Co-op acknowledged that Mr C had received 
some inconsistent information from their agents, including that one of their agents had 
suggested to Mr C that his BBA application was likely to be approved. Co-op apologised to 
Mr C for this and made a payment of £50 to him as compensation for any trouble and upset 
he may have incurred.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. However, 
given all the circumstances here, the £50 compensation that Co-op have already paid to Mr 
C does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what I might have 
instructed Co-op to pay, had they not already done so.
All of which means that I feel that the response that Co-op have already issued to Mr C, 
including the offer of £50 compensation, already represents a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this complaint. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Co-op to take any further action at this time.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr C was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman