DRN-4004521
The complaint
Mr E complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AI) unfairly avoided his home 
insurance policy. (Treated it like it never existed).
What happened
Mr E took out a home insurance policy with AI through a price comparison site. 
On 16 December 2022, whilst Mr E was away on business, he was informed there had been 
a water leak at his house. He contacted AI and made a claim on his home insurance policy. 
AI arranged to attend. 
When AI looked into his claim it said hed not disclosed the house was unoccupied and 
unfurnished. And it considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which 
entitled it to avoid his policy and decline his claim. It said it would pay back the premium hed 
already paid.
Mr E brought his complaint to us, and our investigator thought it should not be upheld. They 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation but didnt think this was deliberate or 
reckless. They believed it was careless. They thought AI were entitled to avoid Mr Es policy 
from the start and decline his claim. They said AI should return the premium hed paid to 
him.
Mr E doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
said the property had not been unoccupied for more than 30 days, so he had complied with 
the policy bought. He said if he had been asked further questions at the start of the policy he 
would have answered them accurately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AI thinks Mr E failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he took 
out the policy. It said the fact that he knew he would not be occupying  the property from the 
start of the policy required declaration to it, in line with the questions asked when the 
application for home insurance was initially completed. 
Ive looked at the questions asked and answered by Mr E. I saw he was asked who is the 
property occupied by? He answered by himself as sole occupier  He was also asked when is 
it normally occupied? He answered both day and night. 
Based on these answers, alongside answers to other questions, Mr E was offered the policy 
with AI which he accepted. Documentation about the policy was then sent to Mr E. I looked 
at this documentation and it confirms the policy cover and informed him to review the policy 
documentation.
 
AI said if it had been aware that the house would not have been occupied it would not have 
offered cover. AI provided evidence to verify this.
This means Im satisfied Mr Es misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
AI has said Mr Es misrepresentation was careless and not deliberate or wilful.
Mr E said as part of the terms of the policy the property can be unoccupied for up to 30 days. 
He said as the incident happened on 16 December 2022 this was within 30 days of the start 
of the policy and also within 30-days of the property being unoccupied after the previous  
tenants left.
Mr E was offered the quotation after completing the online application on a price comparison 
site. He was then asked further questions and said the house would be occupied by himself. 
At this point he would not have been aware of the full terms and conditions of the policy 
which included the 30-day unoccupied term. He cannot rely on this condition as he stated 
the property was to be occupied by himself when he made his application. The 30-days 
unoccupied condition applies to changes in circumstances. It cannot to be used to cover 
circumstances that existed when taking out the policy.
In addition an occupied property is defined as permanently lived in by yourself or another 
resident and furnished with enough furnishings for normal living purposes. This cannot be 
said for Mr Es property as it was not furnished at all times.
I agree that Mr Es misrepresentation was careless. As Mr E was not occupying the property 
when the application for home insurance was initially made, and he knew he would not be 
occupying it at the start of the cover, he should have answered the property was 
unoccupied. I understand his intention was to occupy the property at a later date which is 
why I can agree this was a careless and not intentional misrepresentation. Mr E could have 
asked AI if he was unsure about how to answer the question about occupancy. 
 
As Im satisfied Mr Es misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions AI can take in accordance with CIDRA. In this case it would not offer cover. And it 
can avoid the policy from the point of misrepresentation. 
In this case AI 
Can avoid the policy from the start date. 
Can treat the policy as though it never existed from the point of avoidance and not deal 
with any claims.
Must return any premiums paid.AI have followed this, and I agree with the actions it has taken as they are in line with the 
remedies detailed in CIDRA
Therefore, Im satisfied AI was entitled to avoid Mr Es policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, AI does not have to deal with 
Mr Es claim following the escape of water . And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established 
approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing AI to rely on it to avoid Mr Es policy 
produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman