DRN-4228807
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds actions led to a delay in the 
transfer of his defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to his existing 
Aviva stakeholder pension. Mr S believes he has lost out as a result of the delay.
What happened
Mr S was considering transferring the benefits from his OPS to his existing Aviva pension. 
He instructed a firm of financial advisers (the IFA) to assist him. In December 2020 the OPS 
provided a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) quote for £536,885. At that time, the 
CETV had an expiry date of 2 March 2021.
On 8 January 2021 the IFA wrote to Aviva asking for certain details of Mr S Aviva pension. 
Aviva didn't immediately reply and, on 29 January 2021, the IFA requested the information 
again. It said Mr S CETV was only guaranteed until 2 March 2021.
Aviva replied in February 2021, it then swapped further correspondence and information with 
the IFA until 25 February 2021.
On 1 March 2021 the IFA sent forms the OPS required Aviva to complete to allow the 
transfer to go ahead. The IFA ticked a box on the form to say Mr S OPS fund did not include 
a guaranteed minimum pension (GMP)1. The forms also advised Aviva that the OPS scheme 
had not been GMP equalised. Aviva returned some of the required information the next day. 
At the IFAs prompting Aviva then sent it further information. The IFA forwarded that to the 
OPS. The OPS has recorded that, at that time, it had enough information to secure the 
CETV pending its statutory expiry date on 2 June 2021. 
On 16 March 2021 the OPS identified that Aviva hadn't sent it everything it needed. So it 
asked for the outstanding information. On 23 April 2021 the OPS received the outstanding 
information but it noted that some of it was clearly inaccurate, for example it included an 
Aviva letter which referenced funds having been transferred away from Aviva in error, when 
no such event had taken place. The OPS sent an email to Aviva to query this.
On 19 May 2021 the OPS called Aviva to ask for a response to its previous email. Aviva said 
it hadn't received it as it had been sent to an incorrect email address. The OPS re-sent its 
email. It said the CETV guarantee would expire on 2 June 2021 and asked Aviva to reply by 
26 May 2021. The IFA followed this up also asking Aviva to reply by 26 May 2021. 
Mr S rang Aviva on 24 May 2021. He said the IFA had sent him an email saying that Aviva 
was causing delays. He added that if Aviva didnt provide the required information by the 
deadline the CETV could be revalued and he could lose out. Aviva said it would raise a 
1 GMP is a pension entitlement some DB scheme members have which affects state pension. A 
members entitlement to GMP will affect any CETV the scheme offers. Following a court case in 2018 
and another in 2020, some DB schemes were required to adjust the amounts of GMP paid to certain 
scheme members. The process is known as equalisation. Where a DB scheme has not yet 
equalised its GMP then it might be required, at a later date, to pay an additional transfer sum to 
members who had previously transferred out of the scheme. 
complaint. It sent an update to the IFA that day. It acknowledged that it hadn't previously 
provided up to date information and had given some misleading answers. It apologised for 
the delays it caused. It provided up to date evidence and amended its cover to remove any 
reference to a refund owing to Aviva. 
The IFA passed Avivas information on to the OPS. The OPS noted that Aviva had said in its 
most recent letter something it hadn't mentioned previously, which was that it wouldn't 
accept transfers in from a scheme where the GMP was unequalised. As the OPS scheme 
hadn't equalised its GMP, it asked the IFA to raise this with Aviva. The IFA did so on 
28 May 2021.
On 1 June 2021 both the IFA and the OPS contacted Aviva saying that information was 
outstanding and that the deadline to complete the transfer was the next day, 2 June 2021. 
On 3 June 2021 the OPS emailed the IFA copying the message to Aviva. The OPS 
confirmed that it hadn't heard from Aviva and as such the deadline had passed without it 
making the transfer. It said that if Mr S still wanted to go ahead with the transfer he would 
have to pay £100 for the CETV to be recalculated. Subsequently, after Mr S paid the £100 
fee, the OPS recalculated the CETV at £514,807. The IFA told Aviva that, as the CETV had 
fallen because of Avivas errors, Mr S would be seeking compensation. 
On 28 June 2021 Aviva emailed the IFA explaining a form of disclaimer Mr S would need to 
agree to, which protected Aviva against certain liabilities, in order for it to accept the transfer 
from a DB scheme with unequalised GMP. The IFA confirmed Mr S was happy to accept 
Avivas wording on 1 July 2021.
By 14 July 2021 the OPS had received all the relevant forms to make the transfer and Aviva 
confirmed it could receive it. But, as the OPS hadn't seen Avivas unequalised GMP 
disclaimer previously, it wanted to look into that. 
On 19 July 2021, Aviva replied to Mr S complaint. It referred to the issues Mr S complained 
about as beginning on 24 May 2021. It said that as the transfer hadn't yet completed it 
couldn't know whether Mr S had suffered a loss. It said once completed it would consider 
compensation. After Mr S contacted it again Aviva gave him an update. It said it was looking 
at all the events since the beginning of its involvement. But it couldnt do so until the transfer 
had completed. That was because it would need to compare the actual transfer received 
with Mr S position if thered been no delays, although other factors could affect that. 
Aviva contacted the OPS for updates on 28 July 2021 and 5 August 2021. On both 
occasions the OPS said it was looking into Avivas issue with the GMP equalisation.
On 27 August 2021 the OPS began the transfer process. It completed that on 
17 September 2021. On 22 September Aviva wrote to Mr S to confirm the transfer was 
complete.
Aviva replied to Mr S complaint on 10 November 2021. It provided a timeline of events. It 
agreed it had caused delays, although it said it wasnt the only organisation which did so. It 
said it wasnt clear the transfer was intended for it until 29 January 2021. It said the 
documents sent to it on 1 March 2021 said there was wording about unequalised GMP. But 
the form had been completed to say that there was no GMP; so it didnt think that affected 
the position. It said that if it had dealt with the original request without delay it believed it 
would have completed that by 2 June 2021. But it said that would be based on a CETV 
revaluation calculated on 23 March 2021. It noted that it took the OPS two months to 
complete the transfer. Aviva said that it didnt know what the CETV would have been at 23 March 2021. It 
suggested Mr S request that figure from the OPS and once received said it would calculate if 
Mr S suffered a loss based on that figure. It also offered Mr S £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience the delay caused. 
Mr S continued to correspond with Aviva but as he was unhappy with its proposed resolution 
to his complaint he brought it to us.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. After issuing an initial view and inviting 
comments on it, he issued a further assessment of the complaint on 25 May 2022. He said 
he thought it should be upheld. He said Aviva should have made its position about 
unequalised GMP clear at the outset. He recommended that Aviva should calculate what 
Mr S losses might be as if the transfer had completed on 18 May 2021.
As Aviva didnt reply to our Investigators second assessment of the complaint it was passed 
to me to decide. 
After an initial file review, while I thought Aviva had caused delays, I didnt agree with our 
Investigator about exactly what had caused those delays or how Aviva should go about 
putting things right. So I emailed Aviva and Mr S setting out how I thought Aviva should put 
things right and invited comments. Mr S didnt reply, Aviva did. I've addressed its key points 
below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In arriving at my determination Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
And, while I've considered everything on file, I dont intend to address each and every point 
or issue raised. Instead I will focus my decision on what I see as being the key issues at the 
heart of the complaint and the reasons for my decision. 
Ill add that, Mr S aside, there have been three organisations involved in this transfer: Aviva, 
the IFA and the OPS. It might be argued that all of the parties to the complaint have at one 
point or another contributed to delays. But, as I'm only considering Mr S complaint against 
Aviva, in this decision I will only provide an analysis of whether or not I feel Avivas actions 
have been fair and reasonable.
 
Did Aviva cause delays?
Aviva first became involved when the IFA wrote to it, in early January 2021. Its established 
good practice that, in order to ensure a quick, clear and smooth pension transfer process 
pension providers like Aviva should reply to correspondence within ten working days. In this 
case Aviva didnt initially reply at all.
Aviva's said it wasnt clear from the IFAs correspondence if it was looking for information in 
order to transfer Mr S funds out of his Aviva scheme. It said that was because, as well as 
asking for details of the Aviva scheme, the IFA also said Aviva would need to complete discharge forms. It said those would usually apply to transfers away from the scheme. But, 
while it might have helped if the IFAs correspondence had been clearer, I don't think that 
was a reason for Aviva not to respond. There was nothing preventing it from answering the 
IFAs questions which were clear or from seeking clarification about those which weren't, 
perhaps over the phone, if it wanted to.
The IFA chased Aviva for a reply. It said Mr S was looking to transfer his DB scheme funds 
into the Aviva scheme and as such it needed the information quickly. Aviva will be aware 
that DB transfers have tight deadline dates. So, in order to ensure that the deadline had the 
best chance of being met I think it was important that Aviva provided all the required 
information promptly. However, in this instance that went beyond just answering the IFAs or 
the OPS questions. 
Aviva had decided that its pension scheme wouldnt accept transfers in from schemes with 
unequalised GMP. That was a decision Aviva was entitled to come to. As I've indicated in 
the footnote above the issue of GMP equalisation had first become an issue following a court 
case in 2018. The situation was evolving and, as I understand it, some of the impact of the 
courts decision was still being worked out. So it would have been reasonable for Aviva to 
have made it clear at the outset that it wouldn't generally accept transfers from schemes with 
unequalised GMPs. Doing so at an early stage would have allowed the IFA, the OPS and 
Aviva to arrive at a solution. And, if that couldnt happen before the expiry of the CETV 
deadline, the IFA could have proposed an alternative to the Aviva scheme for Mr S to 
transfer into. But that didnt happen.
When the IFA sent Mr S application to transfer his OPS funds to Aviva on 1 March 2021, the 
OPS papers included information under a heading of Additional Information for Receiving 
Arrangement. That said that the DB schemes GMP hadn't been equalised and may require 
an additional payment at some point in the future. It also said that if that was an issue for 
Aviva to let the OPS know. But while this was an issue for Aviva, it didnt point it out at the 
time.
Aviva, not unreasonably, has said that when the transfer application form was completed a 
box was ticked to say that the fund didnt include GMP. So it assumed that the equalisation 
issue wouldnt arise in this instance. I have some sympathy with it on that point. Its not clear 
who completed the application form, as it's been signed by Mr S. I wouldnt necessarily have 
expected Mr S to have an understanding of whether or not his pension contained GMP 
benefits as thats not necessarily something many DB scheme members are aware of. So I 
think Aviva should have clarified the point at that stage that could have prevented the issues 
that arose later.
That said I would have expected the IFA to have helped Mr S to complete the application 
form. The IFA should have known whether Mr S funds included GMP or not. But, in any 
event, Aviva is aware of the deadlines involved in DB transfers and how such discrepancies 
can prevent them going ahead. So I think it would have been reasonable to expect Aviva to 
have raised the issue at that point. It didnt do so and the parties proceeded being unaware 
of the GMP equalisation issue.
The OPS identified a number of discrepancies with the information Aviva had provided. 
Although, at that time, it wasn't aware that Aviva wouldn't accept transfers involving 
unequalised GMP. The OPS asked Aviva for the relevant information. That took some time. 
The OPS said it needed all the relevant information by 26 May 2021. Aviva did make that 
deadline, but, when it did so, it also pointed out that it didnt accept transfers from DB 
schemes with unequalised GMP. The IFA and OPS did make efforts to sort this out with 
Aviva but, that didnt happen and the CETV deadline of 2 June 2021 expired. I dont think that would have happened if Aviva had raised the unequalised GMP issue on receipt of the 
application on 1 March 2021.
Mr S confirmed he wanted to continue with the process which included the OPS calculating 
a new CETV. When it did so the figure had dropped by around £22,000.
Subsequently, there were further delays while the parties worked on how to sort things out. 
Aviva wasnt directly responsible for all of those delays. During the process it asked Mr S to 
sign a disclaimer concerning unequalised GMP, which he was happy to do. The OPS then 
decided whether they were content to go ahead on that basis. It eventually agreed that it 
was and sorted the transfer out in September 2017. 
In the meantime Mr S was understandably upset that he believed hed lost out financially 
because of the delays and errors. I've noted Aviva has acknowledged that its delays 
impacted on Mr S. It said it would establish his losses based on a CETV calculated as of 
23 March 2021. 
In order to decide if thats fair, Ive thought very carefully about what element of the delays I 
think Aviva is responsible for and how it should put things right. 
Our Investigator felt Aviva should have made the other parties aware it wouldn't accept 
transfers in from schemes with unequalised GMP from the earliest contact with the IFA. 
While I agree that it certainly would have been helpful for Aviva to have told the other parties 
it didn't accept unequalised GMP transfers at an early stage, I'm not aware of any regulation, 
guidance or established good practice that means it was required to do so. Thats especially 
the case as the IFA didnt ask it that question directly. So Aviva wasnt under any obligation 
to let the other parties know about that at an early stage. It follows that I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable to blame Aviva for all the delays that followed because of that.
The first point I think at which Aviva should have told the IFA and the OPS that it didnt 
accept transfers from unequalised GMP schemes was when it received the application form 
for the transfer. That form told Aviva the scheme was unequalised. At that time the CETV 
was due to expire the next day (2 March 2021). And if Aviva had raised that issue of 
unequalised GMP that day  as I think it should have done  the transfer would not have 
gone ahead. Thats because the IFA couldnt have recommended a transfer to a pension 
scheme which refused to receive it. So the CETV deadline would have been missed and the 
OPS would have needed to recalculate it. It follows that in those circumstances, where the 
CETV would have required recalculation, I don't think it would be fair to award redress based 
on the original CETV sum.
As I said above when Aviva proposed a resolution to Mr S complaint it recommended 
determining any loss based on a CETV recalculated on 23 March 2021. It knew the CETV 
would have required recalculation and it seems it allowed some time for the matter to be 
investigated by the IFA and the OPS to make the recalculation. I think that was reasonable. 
That said, calculating a CETV is not a simple task. It requires a skilled actuary to do it and 
the final calculation is based on numerous factors. As well as the schemes rules and its 
members details, other factors are based on information from the financial markets on the 
day of the calculation. Those include things like interest, gilt and discount rates. Some of 
which may change regularly. That is why CETVs are typically initially only guaranteed for 
three months (increasing to six months once secured) because they go up and down 
depending on fluctuations in the market. So, without skilled actuarial input, it would be very 
difficult to find out exactly what the CETV would be now if it were backdated to 
23 March 2021. And I should explain that the OPS would be under no obligation to make 
such a calculation.Instead I propose a simpler solution based on an average figure is fair. In doing so I'm aware 
that, at the time, CETVs were generally reducing. I've set out my reasoning below.
The OPS quoted the initial CETV on 2 December 2020 at a sum of £536,885.
The second CETV calculated on 18 June 2021 was £514,807. A difference of 
£22,078.
The period between the two CETVs was 198 days. So, on average, the CETV sum 
fell by (£22,078  198) £111.51 per day.
23 March 2021 was 111 days after 2 December 2020. So applying an average daily 
reduction of £111.51 would result in the CETV falling by £12,377.61 to £524,507.39 
as of 23 March 2021.
The IFA would then have had to run that figure past Mr S to ensure he was happy to 
go ahead with the transfer based on the recalculated sum. The IFA would also have 
had to ensure an alternative receiving scheme could accept it and do any other 
required due diligence at that time. I think its reasonable to allow two weeks for that 
to happen, until 6 April 2021. But, I don't think the transfer would have taken place on 
that day.
I've noted that once the OPS was in a position to arrange a transfer, which was 
27 August 2021, it actually took it until 17 September 2021 (three weeks) to pay it. So 
allowing three weeks from 6 April 2021 would mean that the alternative scheme 
could have received the funds on 27 April 2021.
I therefore think its fair for Aviva to calculate if Mr S has suffered a loss on his investments 
based on the sum of £524,507 being invested into his Aviva stakeholder pension from 
27 April 2021. 
Im aware that, if the IFA had arranged a transfer to a provider other than Aviva then the 
performance of that fund is unlikely to be identical to the performance of Mr S Aviva pension 
fund. But, I think that the IFA would have most likely recommended an alternative provider 
and fund which matched Mr S attitude to risk which was similar to his Aviva pension. So, its 
likely that an alternative fund would have performed in a broadly equivalent manner to 
Avivas. It follows that I think its reasonable for Aviva to only refer to its own scheme when 
calculating any loss. 
Additionally, as Avivas delays have been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr S 
Aviva should pay him £250 compensation to address that.
 
For completeness Ill add that Aviva said that my award didnt address the OPS delays in 
deciding whether or not to accept Avivas requirement for a disclaimer signed by Mr S. But, if 
events had transpired as I think they should then the DB funds would have been transferred 
elsewhere and the OPS wouldn't have had to consider any disclaimer. So I don't need to 
account for any delay by the OPS for that matter, as it wouldn't have arisen.
Finally, Aviva said it wasnt responsible for any delay between 16 March 2021 and 
23 April 2021, as it doesn't have a record of receiving a request for information on that date. 
But the OPS has provided evidence that it requested information from Aviva on 
16 March 2021. The things it asked for included Avivas bank details and a copy of a recent 
HMRC certificate. It seems that Aviva sent this information to the IFA on 31 March 2021. So 
I'm satisfied that the OPS did request the information and that Aviva supplied it, although 
once received, it appears that some of that information was incorrect requiring the OPS to 
chase Aviva for the correct information. However, the delays here haven't affected my 
proposals for how Aviva should calculate any loss as set out above. Putting things right
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if Avivas actions hadn't caused delays. To do that Aviva should compare the 
actual value of Mr S current pension against the fair value as set out below.
Actual value
This means the actual value of Mr S Aviva pension at the date of my final decision subject to 
any other deductions as described under the heading fair value below.
Fair value
This is what Mr S Aviva pension would have been worth at the date of my final decision if 
Aviva had concluded its work reasonably and without causing delay.
I think Mr S would have invested his CETV from 27 April 2021.
To compensate Mr S fairly, Aviva must:
Establish what Mr S Aviva pension is worth at the date of my final decision if hed 
invested the CETV of £524,507.39 - together with any AVCs or other sums 
transferred - in the Aviva pension from 27 April 2021. This is the fair value.
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Any additional sum that Mr S paid into the investment should be added to the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Aviva pension should be deducted from the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Aviva totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If there is a loss, Aviva should pay into Mr S' pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Aviva is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S' pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. So the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment 
to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so 
Mr S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S' actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that Mr S is likely 
to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would 
equal 20%. However, if Mr S would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall 
reduction of 15%.
Unless it has already done so, Aviva should pay Mr S £250 to compensate him for 
his distress and inconvenience arising from Avivas actions. The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must, where possible, be paid to Mr S within 90 days of his 
acceptance of my decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Aviva to pay Mr S2.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
should pay Mr S the compensation amount as calculated above in my directions under the 
heading "putting things right. Aviva should provide Mr S with a breakdown of its redress 
calculation in a clear and simple to follow format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
2 Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Prudential deducts income tax from the interest, 
it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. Prudential should give him a tax deduction certificate in 
respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate