DRN-4300686
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) has 
unfairly declined their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P have a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Admiral. 
They were due to travel abroad when unfortunately Mr Ps younger brother passed away in a 
different country. Mr P cancelled the flights he had booked and received a partial refund from 
the airline. He made a claim to Admiral for the remainder of his costs. 
Admiral reviewed the claim and asked Mr P to provide medical evidence of his brothers 
condition. Mr P was unable to do this as his brother lived alone in another country and he 
didnt have any connections there. The GP system is also different in that country.
Mr P complained but Admiral said it needed to establish whether his late brother had any 
pre-existing medical conditions and needed medical evidence before assessing the claim.
Unhappy, Mr P referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Admiral had treated Mr P unfairly 
as it had followed its terms and conditions. 
Mr P disagreed and in summary said the policy terms meant he needed to keep medical 
reports handy for all his family members when he books travel which is unfeasible.
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
But firstly, I would like to offer my sincere condolences for Mr Ps loss.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms, under general exclusions, say:
We will not pay any claim which is in any way caused by or resulting fromA pre-
existing medical condition of a close relativewhich they had at the start or renewal 
of your policy of when you booked a trip (whichever is later). This exclusion applies 
regardless of whether you were aware of the condition of (sic) not.
The same exclusion is contained under the cancellation section of the policy.
As the policy clearly says Admiral wont pay claims relating to pre-existing medical 
conditions of close relatives, I think it is reasonable to ask Mr P for medical evidence of his 
brothers condition to ascertain whether he had a pre-existing condition.
I appreciate Mr P is finding it difficult to source this evidence as his brother lived in another 
country but I dont think Admiral has unfairly applied this term and it has requested this 
evidence in line with usual practice for this sort of claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman