DRN-2497827
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the handling of a claim he made under his home emergency insurance 
policy. The policy is underwritten by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA), so any reference to 
IPA include its agents.
What happened
In April, Mr A noticed water was dripping from his boiler. He arranged for two engineers to 
inspect it. The second told Mr A the repair would cost £1,142. Mr A says he was told his 
policy provided for the first £1,000 towards repairs, meaning he would need to pay the 
remaining £142. However, Mr A felt it might be just as cost effective to replace the boiler and 
IPA asked him to send a quotation.
 
Mr A says he was then asked to provide his service history, but IPA then told him they 
wouldnt contribute £1,000. Instead, their contribution would be limited to £250 as the boiler 
was beyond economic repair. In response to this, Mr A says he wanted to have the boiler 
repaired instead but had been having difficulty arranging this. However, he was able to have 
the boiler repaired.
In order to put things right, Mr A thinks IPA should compensate him for the worry and stress 
he and his family have experienced. 
IPA says Mr A indicated he could have the boiler repaired for £400-£500 and, at that price, it 
would consider contributing. However, it said if the repairs cost more than that, it would 
consider the boiler beyond economic recovery and contribute £250 in line with the policy 
terms. When IPA received the invoice from Mr A it showed the repairs had cost £950, 
significantly more than Mr A had indicated. IPA subsequently offered Mr A £676, but Mr A 
feels this should be higher. 
Mr A referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into what 
happened and concluded IPAs offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. As Mr A 
didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can see this matter is important to Mr A, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator and for the same reasons. 
The policy terms and conditions provide a benefit of up to £1,000 for repairs. It says in the 
event of an emergency the policy will offer cover for:
call-out charges, labour, parts and materials up to the value of £1,000 per claim
However, the policy also contains an exclusion: 
 Key benefit exclusions
If the boiler is beyond economic repair, cover for your primary heating system will
cease until your boiler is replaced. We may contribute a maximum of £250 towards 
the cost of you replacing it with a new boiler
Its important to note Mr As policy doesnt cover for the full cost of any repairs. As a result, 
Ive considered what Mr A was entitled.
The notes provided by IPA clearly state it would consider Mr As boiler as beyond economic 
repair if the repairs exceeded £500. I think the second engineer who told Mr A hed likely 
only have to pay £142 towards the cost should have instead clarified the likely outcome was 
that Mr A would receive a contribution of £250.
I can see Mr A was in a difficult situation at the time and might have felt his options were 
limited. Hes mentioned his family were at home and distressed by the situation. However, if 
Mr A was given the correct information about the likely contribution by the engineer, I think it 
is more likely Mr A would still have proceeded with arranging the repair. 
From what Ive seen, when the possibility of carrying out a repair was discussed, IPA made it 
clear to Mr A that if repair costs exceeded £500, it would consider the boiler to be beyond 
economic repair. However, Mr A chose to move ahead with the repairs and, as such, IPA 
was only required to pay Mr A up to £250. However, it chose to make a payment of £676.
As this was more than IPA was required to pay under the policy, I consider it has acted fairly 
and reasonably in response to Mr As claim. It follows, Im not going to direct it to increase 
this or make any further payment to Mr A. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman