DRN-3185368
The complaint
Mr W complains that Allay Claims Limited are asking him to pay their success fee for a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claim he said he hadnt authorised them to make.
What happened
Mr W said he was looking in 2019 to see if hed been mis-sold any PPI. He said he didnt 
sign any documentation for Allay to investigate mis-sold PPI claims for him. And after an 
email around November 2019 he hadnt heard anything further from them. So, he was 
surprised to find in July 2021 that hed been passed to a debt collector for collection of 
Allays fee for a mis-sold PPI claim. He disputed the validity of the letter of authority (LoA) 
Allay said hed signed as he was working overseas at the time. And he also said he hadnt 
been given any opportunity to opt out of their services. He complained to Allay.
Allay said a LoA was signed in August 2019 by Mr W and theyd acted in good faith in 
submitting this to his lenders and pursuing PPI claims based on the information provided to 
them in the initial application. They said theyd updated Mr W when PPI had been found, and 
theyd provided a link for him to complete a PPI questionnaire to strengthen his claim. Allay 
said the PPI questionnaire was completed and returned to them the next day, and theyd 
passed this on to Mr Ws lender, Ill call C. In December 2019 C told them Mr Ws claim 
had been successful, and as Mr W hadnt cancelled his agreement with them, they said their 
fee was justified.
Mr W wasnt happy with Allays response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said, on balance, Mr W had authorised Allay to act on his behalf. And as his 
claim was successful their fee was justified.
Mr W didnt agree, he said the signature on the LoA wasnt his, and hed been away from 
home when Allay said the claim was submitted. He said he hadnt heard anything from Allay 
after November 2019. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Allay feel strongly that the success of Mr Ws claim was because of the submission they
made for him. Mr W is adamant that Allay didnt have a valid authorisation from him 
instructing them to act on his behalf. Mr W has said the signature on Allays LoA isnt his. But 
its not our role to validate a signature as we arent handwriting experts. 
Where there is a different version of events as is the case here, I have to base my decision
on what I think most likely happened. In making my decision I need to determine whether I 
think its more likely than not Mr W had or hadnt authorised Allay to act on his behalf. If I 
consider he has, whether Allay knew he no longer wanted them to work for him. And to see 
whether Allay has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with him.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI 
claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management 
companies, such as Allay, amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected 
high volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data 
subject request. Any further information such as that provided in a PPI questionnaire could be 
used to strengthen the claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So, for some lenders the 
submission of a LoA was accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was 
needed for them to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. This is generally referred to as the claim 
being auto converted.  Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have 
been accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
So, Ive looked at what has happened. 
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in August 2019. The 
personal details in this application correlate with personal details Mr W has given us. The 
application also needed details of Mr Ws lenders, and these details were also
provided. Allay has shown the audit trail for the on-line application and the information that 
was supplied. They said that the terms and conditions had to be agreed to for the application 
to progress. And by agreeing to the terms and conditions this would have generated the LoA 
populated with the personal details that had been supplied. Allay said the LoA couldnt be 
submitted without a signature being added. Theyve said an acknowledgement would have 
been sent to Mr W upon his submission. And Mr W has told us that hed filled in a form in 
2019 as he was looking to see if he could make a PPI claim. 
Allays terms and conditions say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will
apply.
In October 2019, I can see from Allays records that C told them Mr W had PPI on an 
account. Allay said they emailed Mr W to notify him that PPI had been found and to confirm 
his claim had been submitted in line with their terms and conditions. So, from this point Allay 
would have been providing their claims service. PPI being found didnt mean Mr Ws claim 
was successful as it needed to be considered by C whether the PPI had been mis-sold to 
him. This is why Allay asked Mr W to complete a PPI questionnaire. The notification 
provided a link to the PPI questionnaire for its completion and return. From Allays records I 
can see a completed PPI questionnaire was returned to them in November 2019 and 
forwarded to C. Mr W has confirmed he did receive an email around November 2019 from 
Allay saying that PPI had been found. 
In mid-November 2019 I can also see that Allay sent Mr W an email and text message to the 
same contact details he has given to us that confirm the PPI questionnaire has been 
submitted to his lender.
In December 2019,  C told Allay Mr Ws mis-sold PPI claim had been successful and the 
amount of compensation to be awarded. I think this shows C recognised Allay as Mr Ws 
representative. And Allays records show a letter headed We Won was sent to Mr W, the 
same month to the address Mr W has given to us, an invoice for Allays success fee was 
sent at the same time. So, Im satisfied Allay was authorised to pursue a PPI claim for Mr W.
I will now look to see whether Mr W asked Allay to stop working for him.Allays terms and conditions say:
From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 14-day cooling off period during which 
you can cancel your contract with us. If at any time during the 14-day cooling off period we 
obtain an offer of compensation for you, our normal fee will be payable.
And go on to explain how the agreement could be cancelled, verbally, by email, in writing or 
by downloading a cancellation form from Allays website.
Mr W said he wasnt given the opportunity to opt out of Allays services. But as Allay emailed 
on 24 October 2019 to tell him PPI had been found and that theyd submitted his complaint 
to C. Id consider the 14-day cooling off period to start from that date. So, Mr W would have 
had up to 7 November 2019 to cancel the agreement free of any charge. I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr W asked Allay to cancel the agreement either within or after the 14-day 
cooling off period. 
In November 2019, I can see Allay sent further emails and text messages to Mr W, to 
contact details that hes given to us. And I havent seen any evidence that Mr W asked Allay 
to stop or question them as to why they were contacting him. And by not telling Allay he 
didnt want them to act on his behalf before the end of the 14-day cooling off period, theyd 
continued to provide their claims service. 
The agreement Mr W would have had with Allay was on a No win No fee basis. This 
means Allay charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work 
they did. This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. 
Where a claim was successful, Allays fee maybe more or less than the value of the work 
they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. As I think Mr 
Ws claim was submitted by Allay just prior to the August deadline, and the claim was 
successful. I think Allay is justified in charging their fee.
I know Mr W will be disappointed with my decision especially as he doesnt feel he has 
received any redress as C used the compensation to reduce his outstanding debt with 
them. But Allays terms and conditions say:
We are entitled to receive 24% (inclusive of VAT where applicable) of redress recovered 
relating to all accounts with your lenders, no matter if received after the initial settlement, 
whether the redress was received in whole or part by way of loan/arrears reduction, refund 
of premiums, and/or in cash.
So, taking all the above into account Im not upholding his complaint. As I think it more likely 
that  Mr W had authorised Allay to act on his behalf in making a mis-sold PPI claim and the 
agreement hadnt been cancelled. As the claim was successful Allay can charge their fee.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman