DRN-1429105
The complaint
Mr H complained about the amount Admiral Insurance Company Limited offered in 
settlement of a motor insurance claim. 
What happened
Admiral offered Mr H £30,900 (less the policy excess) in settlement of his claim after his car 
was written off. It said this was based on figures quoted in three trade guides. Mr H was 
unhappy with the offer as he didn't think it reflected the market value of the car - mainly 
because optional extras hadn't been taken into account.
Our investigator didn't think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt Admiral had 
acted fairly when calculating the claim settlement. He didn't think the extras on the car 
increased its market value beyond what Admiral had offered. Mr H disagreed. He said his 
car, together with the extras, demanded more of a premium on the open market; and that the 
extras hadn't been taken into account. He also provided a value from a trade guide 
which Admiral had used, which quoted a higher figure. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral's liability to Mr H is detailed in the policy. This says the most Admiral will pay in 
settlement of a claim is the market value of the car. 'Market value' is defined in the policy as 
the cost of replacing the car with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and condition 
based on market prices at the time of the loss. In deciding this type of complaint I generally 
find the valuations given in motor trade guides to be the most persuasive for insurers to use 
in determining a car's market value. I'm unlikely to uphold a complaint where the insurer has 
provided a fair valuation in accordance with the motor trade guides.
I have checked two of the trade guides that Admiral used and another guide that we use. I 
couldn't check the third guide that Admiral used as it only went back three months, and it's 
now eight months since the accident. The figures are outlined in the following table.
 Figure Admiral used Figure I got
Guide A £30,900 £30,914
Guide B £27,760 £27,760
Guide C £26,500 -
Guide D - £33,620
 Even though I wasn't able to check the third guide that Admiral used, as the figures it quoted 
for the other two guides were in line with the figure I got, I'm prepared to accept it as 
accurate for the purpose of this decision. The valuation Mr H provided was for Guide A, and 
was £32,750. 
When three guides are used and the figure in one guide is significantly out of line with the 
other two, I usually think it's fair to discard the "out of line" figure. With that in mind, of the 
three guides Admiral used, Guide A would be disregarded - thereby leaving a valuation (and 
settlement) of around £27,000. That would make Admiral's offer of £30,900 very fair.
With the addition of the fourth guide, there's now a range of figures. But I don't think that 
makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint. When there's a range of figures I often 
look at the average as being a fair valuation. Excluding, Mr H's "guide A" valuation, the 
average of the four guides is just under £29,700. I haven't been able to work out why Mr H's 
valuation for guide A is different to the one Admiral and I found, but even if I use that the 
average of the four guides is just under £30,160. Admiral's offer compares favourably to both 
averages.
I've considered what Mr H has said about the optional extras on the car adding to its value. 
But the trade guides I looked at showed there was no discernable difference in value 
between a basic specification car and one with the extras Mr H's had. I know on the face of it 
that sounds odd. But generally I think it's unlikely that 'extras' make a material overall 
difference to a car's market value. They might make a small difference, but not necessarily 
by as much as the consumer spent on the additions. And some accessories or features 
might decrease a cars value in the eyes of some potential buyers. There are obviously 
occasions where a particular accessory or feature would likely increase a cars value. But I'm 
guided on that by the trade guides or other evidence presented. And I've seen nothing in this 
case that shows the extras on Mr H's car materially increased its market value.
So, for the reasons outlined above, I conclude that Admiral treated Mr H fairly by offering the 
amount it did in settlement of his claim.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman