DRN-1433862
 
The complaint
Miss C feels she was misled and inconvenienced by American Express Services Europe 
Limited (Amex) in respect of the card activation process having received a new card from it. 
What happened
Miss C has been an Amex customer for many years and in September 2019 Amex issued a 
new card. The covering letter and the sticker on the card said to go online or to download a 
smartphone app to activate the card. The letter sets out three steps to do this. There was no 
obvious telephone number to call to activate the card as Miss C had done previously. 
Miss C says going online is difficult for her but this appeared to be the only option to activate 
the card. When she did go online she says it was also necessary to register for Amexs 
online system to activate the card. As Miss C doesnt like using online banking she didnt 
wish to do this. She subsequently telephoned Amex and was able to activate the card over 
the phone. She says overall this caused her two weeks of delay and inconvenience.
Miss C complained to Amex, she said the letter enclosing the card was misleading as it said 
the card could be activated under step one by going online. Not that she also had to also 
register for online services, which was step two. Miss C says as well as being misleading 
this isnt treating customers fairly as not everyone has a smartphone to use apps or access 
to the internet for online banking.    
Amex looked into it. It didnt uphold the complaint but apologised for any inconvenience it 
may have caused. It said it provided online services to help people manage their accounts. It 
said that a telephone number for Miss C to contact them should have been on the letter. It 
asked Miss C to send it a copy of the letter in question for it to look into it. Being asked to 
provide a copy of the letter annoyed Miss C further.
Miss C referred her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it. He agreed 
the letter is misleading but didnt uphold the complaint as Miss C had been able to activate 
her card by calling Amex. And its telephone number was in the letter even though telephone 
activation wasnt specifically mentioned. He said some of the delay in Miss C being able to 
activate the card was because Miss C didnt phone Amex sooner.
In reply Miss C said she disagreed. She said the letter was misleading and unfair and Amex 
should change it. She also said Amexs complaint process didnt address her complaint 
properly and it shouldnt be asking her to send it copies of letters it had sent to her. 
As Miss C doesnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Having done so I do not uphold the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss C has said she isnt happy with how Amex looked at her complaint or about its process 
for issuing new cards which she thinks should be changed. Our service offers an informal 
dispute resolution service, so I cant tell a business to change a process. I cant look into 
Amexs handling of the complaint either as this isnt a regulated activity. However it isnt 
unreasonable for businesses not to have a personalised copy of template type letters used 
to issue new cards and general information. I think Amex asked for a sight of it in case there 
was an error in it having no telephone number at all.
What I can consider is whether Miss C has been treated fairly and reasonably in line with the 
law, regulation and industry practice. And whilst I understand her annoyance at the delay 
and changing procedures, I dont think Amex has treated her unfairly or unreasonably here. 
Miss C was able to activate the card when she did call Amex and the phone number of the 
Customer Services Team is clearly on the letter. 
Amex says it hasnt put a telephone activation number on the card itself or in the covering 
letter for several years. It says it has focused on developing online systems to give 
customers greater freedom in managing their accounts. And as a business, Amex is entitled 
to decide on the processes and procedures it puts in place. 
Promoting this type of process as the primary card activation method is an option used by 
 card providers and there is nothing wrong with that. And as it isnt the only activation option 
 I dont think Amex has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Amexs letter does set out a three step process to enjoying all your Card benefits . Step 
one is to activate the card online, two is to register for online services and three allows the 
PIN be viewed for new cards. Miss C complains that as step one doesnt actually activate 
the card, the letter is misleading. Step one does say this, so it might be better phrased than it 
is. But as Miss C points out in her complaint, once the activation screen is completed it is 
immediately obvious step two (registration) is needed as well.
However, I think it is reasonable that further information is required for security purposes, 
just as it is when a telephone call is made instead. 
Miss C is says the letter makes it look like there is no other option to activate the card than 
online or via the app as there is no reference to telephone activation. Again she is correct, 
but underneath the three step process the letter says:
If you have any questions, please call your 24 hour Customer Services Team on 0800 
 
I think there is enough information here, if apps or the internet arent accessible, or for 
someone who doesnt want to register for online services, for them to be prompted to call the 
Customer Services Team and query it. So I dont think it is unreasonable or unfair for Amex 
not to quote a specific telephone activation number if it choses not to.
As I dont think Amex has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its dealing with Miss C, I wont 
be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6July2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman