DRN-2411510
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Zenith Insurance plc turned down his motor insurance claim, after 
his van was stolen.
What happened
Mr A claimed on his policy after his van was stolen. Mr A said hed driven the van to his 
partners property in the evening, left the keys in the kitchen and noticed it had been stolen 
the following morning. 
Zenith appointed an investigator to look into what happened. Zenith ultimately turned down 
the claim as it said there were inconsistencies in Mr As account of what happened. It said 
the policy allowed it to decline the claim, recover any money paid out on the claim and 
cancel the policy if Mr A made any false, fraudulent or exaggerated statements. 
Mr A didnt think Zenith had acted fairly in turning down the claim and brought his complaint 
to us. 
Our investigator considered Mr As complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
Zenith had made a fair and reasonable decision due to the inconsistencies in Mr As account 
of what happened. Mr A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not for me to decide what happened to Mr As van. Instead I need to decide if Zenith has 
made a fair and reasonable decision thats in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for the same reasons. 
The terms and conditions of Mr As policy say that if he makes any false or exaggerated 
claims Zenith can refuse to pay the claim and cancel the policy.
Zenith has pointed to a number of inconsistencies in Mr As account of what happened. In 
Zeniths investigators report Mr A said he wasnt looking to sell the van. He also said it was 
in good condition and hadnt had any repairs. In that report Mr A also said the window was 
slightly open and suggested that was how the keys might have been taken. 
Zenith has provided copies of an advert showing the van for sale in Mr As name. That 
advert says theres some damage to a window and the van sometimes goes into limp mode. 
I understand Mr A said the window had been repaired, but thats inconsistent with the 
investigators report which says there had been no repairs. I think this information shows that 
Mr As statement that the van was in good condition was false. 
In addition to this, when he reported the theft Mr A said he was unsure if the kitchen window 
was open. In a telephone interview he said the window wasnt open and in the investigators 
report he said it was slightly open. There wasnt any sign of forced entry to the window. I 
think its fair for Zenith to say this information is inconsistent. 
I understand Mr A feels Zeniths investigators report is biased and he wasnt happy with the 
investigators questioning. However, Mr A has signed the statement he made, so I think its 
fair for Zenith to rely on the information contained it in. 
I can see that Zeniths investigator also tried to contact Mr As partner to verify his account of 
what happened, but she didnt provide an interview. 
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied there are enough inconsistencies in the 
information Mr A provided for Zenith to rely on the term about fraudulent claims to turn down 
Mr As claim and take the action it has. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to   
Mr A but Im not going to interfere with Zeniths decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman