DRN-3637727
The complaint
Mrs H has complained about advice received from Barclays Bank UK PLC when taking out a 
non-reviewable whole of life policy. 
What happened
In February 2006 Mrs H took out a non-reviewable whole of life policy through Barclays. 
Advice was given to Mr and Mrs H but this complaint concerns the policy Mrs H took out. 
Mrs H wanted to ensure that her family didnt have to pay her funeral costs. Accordingly she 
was advised to take out a whole of life policy with an initial sum assured of £3,300 and a 
monthly premium of £12.48. The policy included an indexation option  allowing for an 
increase in the sum assured for a corresponding increase in premium.
In 2021 Mrs H called the insurer and was told that her policy didnt have any bonus. Mrs H 
complained that the policy had been mis-sold to her. Our investigator recommended that the 
complaint be upheld. Barclays appealed. In summary it said that the policy recommended 
was suitable, that the role of the financial adviser was not to try and predict value for money 
based on assumptions about how long a customer might live and that there wasnt any 
suitable alternative. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties and 
Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think is the key 
issue here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it 
isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
As the facts of this matter arent in dispute so Ill focus on the reason for my decision. 
The adviser recommended a policy that was suitable for Mrs H in that it would provide a 
lump sum in the event of her death if she continued to pay the premiums. 
However we would expect the significant risk that it was possible that a consumer might pay 
more than the policy benefit to be highlighted. Frequently this is contained in the 
documentation  but it wasnt on this occasion. Further it doesnt appear that Mrs H was 
warned as her evidence is that she was unaware that this was a possibility - she said she 
didnt realise she could pay more than the policy benefit. 
I find that her evidence is plausible  in that she also thought the policy would provide 
bonuses. It didnt and there is no evidence she was told it would. But this leads me to 
conclude that Mrs H wasnt fully aware of the product she was buying or how it worked. 
I fully accept that the role of Barclays wasnt to predict value for money based on 
assumptions about how long a customer may live for. Indeed, Mrs H hasnt yet reached the 
tipping point  from what Ive seen she hasnt paid more in premiums than the policy 
benefit. Ive thought carefully about this and I recognise that Barclays has been on risk since 
2006. The policy wasnt wholly unsuitable, but there was a significant risk that wasnt 
highlighted. 
Barclays says there wasnt any suitable alternative, but I need to determine what would have 
happened if the risk had been drawn to Mrs Hs attention. On balance I find that had Mrs H 
been made aware that she could pay in more than the benefit she wouldnt have taken this 
policy out. It was a risk she didnt want to take.
Accordingly I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to put Mrs H in the position she would have 
been in had the policy not been sold by refunding the premiums paid with interest. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to refund 
the premiums paid by Mrs H with 8% simple interest from the date each premium was paid 
until settlement.
For completeness I would add that if Mrs H accepts this decision, it means the policy will no 
longer be in force.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman