DRN-3844518
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Coventry Building Society (CBS) automatically reinvested funds from a 
matured ISA into another ISA leading to  an early exit penalty when she transferred the 
funds. She would like to be able to close her account without penalty.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving  the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mrs Ms frustration in incurring a penalty when she transferred her ISA 
funds. I have seen the various pieces of correspondence CBS sent Mrs M. When she 
opened her account the terms stated that that unless instructed otherwise prior to 
maturity funds would be automatically reinvested at maturity into another ISA. So I 
think  Mrs M would have been aware of that when she opened her account.
In its pre maturity letter sent on 3 May 2022  CBS said if didnt hear back with further 
instructions it would re-invest all savings into a similar account (option A). As Mrs M 
didnt go back to CBS with alternative instructions within the given timescale her 
funds were automatically transferred into another ISA as per the prematurity letter. I 
dont think CBS were wrong to do this, it had given notice of what would happen if no 
instructions were received, and none were.
CBS then sent a post maturity letter dated 7 June 2022 to confirm the reinvestment 
and this letter stated that she could withdraw her funds without penalty  during the 
cooling off period. The cooling off period was detailed in a leaflet CBS included with 
its previous  correspondence. It advised of the 21-calendar day cancellation period 
after which closure would incur a charge equal to 180 days loss of interest. Although 
Mrs M says the penalty clause was hidden away it was still within the information 
sent. And I understand she did get and read the letters but didnt read  the enclosed 
leaflets. However, the letter of 7 June 2022 also said she could get in touch with CBS  
about the cooling off period. So, I do believe the information was available to her
I also appreciate Mrs Ms situation at the time and the fact she was on holiday when 
one of CBSs letters arrived. Thats unfortunate but consumers do have to take some 
responsibility for their accounts. Mrs M would have known the maturity date when 
she took out the ISA so would have been broadly aware of the timescale to decide 
what to do with the funds, and what  would happen if she didnt give instructions. If 
she wasnt clear she could have contacted CBS. As I dont feel CBS has done 
anything wrong I cant reasonably ask it to allow account closure with no penalty.
My final decision
My final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman