DRN-2835399
The complaint
 Ms S complains about newly fitted doors and windows financed by a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Hitachi Capital (UK) plc. 
 
What happened
 I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision. For clarity I 
repeat it here.
In February 2020, Ms S engaged the services of a company Ill call E to supply and fit new 
doors and windows. Almost immediately after the installation Ms S noticed problems with 
some of the doors and windows. E carried out an inspection and agreed there were issues. It 
agreed to renew the front door, replace the glass in the French doors and reseal the 
windows.
Unfortunately, due to the Covid-19 lockdown the repairs couldnt be carried out by E as 
timely as it would have hoped and when restrictions were lifted it struggled to source the 
parts in needed.
In August 2020, it agreed to provide a new front door, reseal all the windows and replace the 
glass in the French doors. Despite carrying out this work, Ms S continued to experience 
problems again with the front door and one of the windows.
There followed two independent inspections both of whom found fault with the installation of 
the front door and one of the front windows. Both were deemed to be below standard and 
having reached a deadlock with how to proceed. Ms S refusing to sign the satisfaction note 
which would release the funds to E from Hitachi and E not being able to resolve matter to Ms 
Ss satisfaction.
An investigator looked into things for Ms S. In all he issued three views, in an attempt to find 
a fair and reasonable settlement of this complaint. In his final view he said Ms S has a right 
to a new door and frame, and this should be supplied by E, at their cost. He also felt E 
should be allowed to appoint a FENSA or CERTASS certified installer to undertake the 
installation to a high industry standard and that Ms S should be entitled to a price
reduction of 5% from the invoice  amounting to a £425 discount. 
Ms S responded that E has already had two attempts at supplying and fitting a front door of 
industry standard and failed and that one of the windows is now bulging whilst other doors 
and windows are without issue. She said she has lost all confidence in E to rectify the 
situation to a satisfactory standard. She made E an offer of a full and final settlement of 
£4,250 to terminate the agreement and accept the installation without a warranty. She would 
then resolve the defects herself. This represents 50% of the £8,500 invoice.
E rejected the offer. But understood Ms S may want to walk away from the contract and the 
warranty. It said the cost of the replacement door would be £1,500  18% of the invoice  
leaving a sum of £7,000 owing. They didnt feel it was fair to reduce the invoice by 50% for 
this reason and made a counter-offer of £6,750.
Ms S didnt accept the offer made by E. She didnt agree £1,500 reduction was fair and also 
didnt feel the price reduction of 5% reflected the failure of E to supply and fit the doors and 
windows she had contracted it to undertake.
The investigator felt the offer from E represented a fairer solution to resolve the complaint. 
Ms S said she would acquire independent quotes from another company to replace the door 
and the windows and she asked for an ombudsman review.
In my provisional decision I said I could see this complaint appears to have grown in 
complexity. Ms S was understandably reluctant to allow E to attempt to complete repairs - 
given the previous history of unsatisfactory work. And, there have been various offers and 
counter offers made between the parties, which havent resulted in a resolution. Given this 
background, I explained how we approach this type of complaint. 
Ms S bases her complaint under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, 1974. This allows a 
customer to submit a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier to their 
credit provider. And applies when customers use certain types of credit to buy goods and/ or 
services. 
In this case, Ms S used a fixed-sum loan to pay for these items. I dont apply the law directly, 
so Im not deciding if Section 75 applies in this case. Rather, Im required to decide what, if 
anything, Hitachi should do to resolve this complaint. In doing that, I must decide what I think 
is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other things) any relevant law, which 
includes Section 75. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Ms S pursued a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. We are not a court and we have different rules from the court system.
I said I could see Ms S has been through a very taxing experience. She paid a considerable 
amount of money to have windows and doors to her home by a reputable company. And, if 
everything had happened as it shouldve done, she could and should have been enjoying 
her life without giving this a second thought. Instead, she has had to go back and forth trying 
to get the job done. 
There have been a number of engineers reports commissioned to look at the problems with 
the doors and windows. E disputed elements of the engineers report and concerns around 
when some of the issues occurred. Im of the view that the investigator has considered these 
at length and given three views following repeated submissions, so I dont intend to go 
through all the arguments again.
I said Im satisfied from what Ive seen, that the work carried out wasnt satisfactory - and 
would amount to a breach of contract. So, the main issue is the manner of redress. The 
usual remedy for breach of contract is to try to put the customer in the same position as if the 
breach hadnt occurred. That might involve refunding the cost or requiring items to be 
replaced or repaired. But I said I was further satisfied that E has had two attempts to rectify 
the situation and failed, causing further distress
In this case, due to the nature of the work there are serious practical difficulties in 
considering the issue of rejecting and removing the items and cancelling the agreement. The 
potential for further damage to Ms Ss property would be considerable. Apart from the 
inconvenience, thered be security risks in removing windows and an external door - unless it 
could be guaranteed replacements would be fitted immediately.I also considered the fact that some of the work carried out seems to have been to standard 
and Ms S has had no issues with the other doors and windows. So, we are talking about the 
front door and the bay window.
I can completely understand why Ms S has lost complete confidence in E to rectify the 
problems she has experienced, having already given it two attempts to do so.
Ms S has helpfully gained a quote from an alternative provider to:
 Supply and fit of UPVC composite door and side panels to match existing design -     
£1875.00 inc VAT 
 Supply and fit of UPVC bow window (full replacement) - £1450.00 inc VAT 
 Remove existing windows and doors and dispose of from site 
The total cost being £3325.00
I said I was of the view the fairest solution here, having considered the previous offers and 
counter offers, is for the invoice from E to be reduced by £3325.00, leaving a balance of 
£5175.00. This will allow Ms S to carry out the replacement of the defective doors and 
windows herself. But E should provide the ten-year warranty as agreed for all the other 
remaining doors and windows. It also somewhere between the offer Mrs S originally made 
and the counter offer from E and so seems to be a fair and reasonable settlement of this 
complaint.
I didnt agree to deduct any further monies from the invoice as I said in my view, the 
warranty should remain in place should Ms S experience any issues with the other doors 
and windows.
I went onto say I thought this matter has taken far too long to resolve. I dont underestimate 
the time and inconvenience and sheer frustration Ms S has experienced and E has had the 
opportunity to repair issues and has already failed to do so satisfactorily. As such, Ms S 
should be compensated for the long delay and failed attempts to rectify the situation.
I said, I intend to ask Hitachi Capital (UK) plc to:
Reduce the fixed-sum loan to £5175.00 
Pay £300 for distress and inconvenience
I invited both parties can make any further submissions for my consideration before I issue a 
final decision.
Both parties responded.
Ms S accepted the findings of my provisional decision as did Hitachi.
Hitachi pointed out to carry out the logistics of reducing the finance agreement it would need 
Ms S to activate her finance agreement. It would then reduce the balance in accordance with 
this decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I thank both parties for their submissions. I have looked at all the information provided by 
both parties afresh in order to reach a final decision
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Both parties have accepted the findings of my provisional decision and so it follows that I 
have reached the same conclusions for the same reasons as I did in my provisional 
decision.
The only additional matter is the requirement for Ms S to activate her finance agreement. 
This will allow Hitachi to reduce the balance to that directed.
My final decision
  For the reasons I have given, I direct Hitachi Capital (UK) plc to:
Reduce the fixed-sum loan to £5175.00 
Pay £300 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman