DRN-4223098
The complaint
Mr C complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of his buildings 
insurance claim.
All references to Admiral also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint for these reasons:
Mr C has provided a report from an expert which details movement is still taking 
place at the property. In particular, it highlighted issues regarding movement under a 
bay window at the front of the property.
Our service has previously asked Admiral to comment on this, and although it has 
since provided a further report from its own expert, it doesnt appear to have 
considered the findings in the report provided by Mr C and doesnt comment on the 
issues under the front bay where the movement has been said to be causing issues.
As the report provided by Mr C says there is ongoing movement, further investigation 
will be required to ensure the property is stable before works begin, and that these 
works are adequate in providing a lasting and effective repair In all areas covered 
under the policy.
Admiral has now had several opportunities to assess this movement. Mr C has had 
to obtain the report at his own cost, and based on what Ive seen, as I think further 
investigation is required, its reasonable for Admiral to reimburse this cost.
Mr C has put forward several items he feels should be included in Admirals offer of 
settlement. Admiral has said it will consider each of these and asked for invoices and 
photos for review. I dont think this is unreasonable. 
Admiral has now agreed to pay for Mr C to stay in alternative accommodation while 
repairs are ongoing. Our service has previously asked Admiral why its position on 
this matter changed, but it has provided no further comment. Based on the 
information available to me, Im persuaded the initial refusal to meet this cost caused 
unnecessary delays in matters progressing and wouldve been distressing for Mr C.
Admiral accepted its communication throughout the claim couldve been better. And I 
can see this has caused Mr C frustration and confused matters over a prolonged 
period. In the circumstances, I think Admiral should pay Mr C £250 compensation as 
this fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience its actions have caused.
Putting things right
To put things right Admiral should:
Arrange further investigation into the cause of continuing movement, taking into 
account and commenting on the findings in the report provided by Mr C.
Reimburse Mr C for the cost of the report of April 2023. Admiral can ask for proof of 
this expense, such as an invoice, if it requires it.
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on this amount from the date Mr C paid the 
invoice to the date it makes settlement of the report cost.
Pay Mr C a total of £250 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
To put things right I direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman