DRN-4149793
The complaint
Miss H has complained about the service she received from Scottish Widows Limited.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this 
approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I 
havent. Ive fully reviewed the complete file. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Its not disputed that Miss H wrote to Scottish Widows in July 2021 to update her 
personal circumstances change her name and update her occupation. Scottish 
Widows sent the request to its actuarial department to issue a new quote based on 
Miss Hs job and salary. Its records show a quote was sent to Miss H and reissued 
the same month. Its not clear what happened, Scottish Widows says it didnt receive 
a reply, but it would seem Miss H didnt receive this communication. From July 2022 I 
can see that Miss H wrote to Scottish Widows on several occasions but didnt receive 
a reply. Her request to increase her benefit and premium and change her name has 
now been actioned. 
I can see that the process was very frustrating for Miss H. She needed to write and 
call on more than one occasion when this shouldnt have been necessary. She would 
still like to know why her requests werent actioned sooner. Scottish Widows hasnt 
given an explanation as to why correspondence from July 2022 wasnt responded to. 
However it has offered £250 in compensation for the poor communication and poor 
customer service. I find that amount is fair compensation for the inconvenience Miss 
H suffered.
This service doesnt regulate insurers or tell them how to operate. Although Scottish 
Widows has not elaborated on how the service failings came about, it accepts that 
Miss H didnt receive the level of service that she could have expected. In 
acknowledgement of this it has offered compensation. I find that is a fair resolution, 
given that the changes have now been implemented. If Miss H requires further 
documentation from Scottish Widows regarding her policies, she should request this 
directly.
My final decision
Scottish Widows Limited has made an offer to pay £250 to settle this complaint. I find the 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
My final decision is that Scottish Widows Limited should pay Miss H £250, if it hasnt done so 
already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman