DRN-3753674
The complaint
Miss C complains that FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd trading as Fiat Financial Services 
irresponsibly granted her two finance agreements she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In August 2016, Miss C acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
FCA Automotive Services. Miss C was required to make 59 monthly repayments of around 
£193 (around £210 if payments for insurance/warranty/GAP/other are included), with a final 
optional payment of around £560 (around £609 if the additional repayment is included). The 
total repayable under the agreement for the car was around £12,952 (around £13,991 
including the insurance/warranty/GAP/other repayments). Miss C repaid the hire purchase 
agreement early in November 2018 and took out a motor loan agreement. This second 
agreement required Miss C to make 48 repayments of around £203 (around £225 if 
payments for insurance/warranty/GAP/other are included), followed by a final optional 
payment of around £2,730 (£3,034 including the additional repayment) if she wanted to own 
the car at the end of the agreement. The total amount payable under the second agreement 
was around £12,454 (around £13,842 if payments for insurance/warranty/GAP/other are 
included).
Miss C says that FCA Automotive Services didnt complete adequate affordability checks. 
She says if it had, it would have seen the agreements were affordable. FCA Automotive 
Services didnt agree. It said that Miss C signed the agreement and agreed to be bound by 
the terms. It said that Miss C was auto accepted for both agreements.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought FCA Automotive 
Services didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss C didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FCA Automotive Services will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry 
practice we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information 
about our approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
FCA Automotive Services hasnt provided a copy of the credit checks it completed but noted 
that Miss C had a clean credit check at the time of the applications for the agreements. Ive 
looked at a copy of the credit file supplied by Miss C. Given the timing of the credit report 
and when the agreements were provided I may not have a full picture of the situation but 
based on the evidence I have seen I do not find that there was anything on Miss Cs credit 
report that would have raised concerns at the times the agreement were provided.
FCA Automotive Services has said that Miss C was auto accepted for both agreements and 
has provided copies of the agreements and terms. While I note the comment that the auto 
accept shows there were no affordability issues raised, as FCA Automotive Services didnt 
ask Miss C for her income or expenses prior to lending, I dont think it was possible for FCA 
Automotive Services to make a fair assessment of her ability to afford the repayments 
without undue difficulty. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. 
I think it would have been proportionate for FCA Automotive Services to have verified 
Miss Cs income and asked her about her expenditure. 
I cant be certain what Miss C would have told FCA Automotive Services had it asked about 
her regular expenditure. I dont think FCA Automotive Services needed to request bank 
statements, but in the absence of anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the 
information contained in Miss Cs statements as an indication of what would most likely have 
been disclosed. I have considered each application separately.
Hire purchase agreement August 2016
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application in August 2016. 
These show that Miss Cs income averaged around £1,050. Her regular committed monthly 
expenditure at the time was around £550. In calculating this figure, Ive included costs such 
as housing, food, transport and other commitments. Taking these figures into account, it 
appears to show the agreement was affordable to Miss C. For this reason, Im not 
persuaded that FCA Automotive Services acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
Fixed sum loan agreement November 2018
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements prior to the application in November 2018. 
These show that Miss Cs income averaged around £1,400. Her regular committed monthly 
expenditure at the time was around £850. In calculating this figure, Ive included costs such 
as housing, food, transport and other commitments. Taking these figures into account and 
noting Miss Cs repayment history on her previous agreement, it appears to show the 
agreement was affordable to Miss C. For this reason, Im not persuaded that FCA 
Automotive Services acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
In conclusion, I do not find that had further checks taken place before the agreements were 
provided that FCA Automotive Services would have found the agreements to have been 
unaffordable for Miss C. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman