DRN-3450634
The complaint
Mr F, through his representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from Morses here is a brief loan table. 
loan date taken date repaidamount 
borrowedterm weekly rate
1 27/07/2017 23/01/2018 £400 33w £20.00
2 23/01/2018 01/05/2018 £400 33w £20.00
3 01/05/2018 Outstanding £850 52w £29.75
Morses did not uphold Mr Fs complaint and sent us information about the checks it did 
before it approved the loans.
One of our adjudicators did think that Morses ought to have carried out more checks when 
he applied to it for loan 3 but as Mr F had not sent any information about his financial 
circumstances in 2018, our adjudicator did not have enough to uphold it.
Mr F disagreed but sent no more information. The unresolved complaint was passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint and have explained why below.
The information Morses had about Mr Fs income and expenditure is duplicated here: 
loan income expenditure disposable 
income
1 £500.00 £182.00 £318.00
2 £400.00 £135.00 £265.00
3 £300.00 £133.00 £167.00
Loans 1 and 2
I have reviewed the amount Mr F was asking for, the checks Morses carried out (including 
the credit search), and the expenditure information Mr F had declared to it. When subtracted 
from his income this leads me to see why Morses thought that Mr F was able to afford loans 
1 and 2 and I refer to the table above where the disposable income for each week is listed 
there. 
I think that Morses carried out proportionate checks and considering Mr F was a new 
customer and was asking for relatively modest sums over relatively short terms (33 weeks) 
then I think that its lending decision was reasonable.
Loan 3
Mr F returned on the same day he paid off Loan 2 and wanted an £850 loan which was more 
than double what hed asked for before. Yet Morses had recorded that his income had 
reduced again and was now  for loan 3  much less than for loan 2. That meant that Mr Fs 
disposable income was reduced to around £167 a week on its own calculations. So, I do think that Morses ought to have carried out more thorough checks before lending 
loan 3. Even on its own recorded figures it was clear that Mr F was not in the same financial 
position he was in for loan 1. And it ought to have asked for more information. I dont think 
Morses did that.
I have not received anything from Mr F to further support his complaint and so I have not 
been able to review what it was that Morses may have discovered if it had carried out 
additional checks before loan 3. 
I took time to review the credit search results Morses had carried out. It did this before loan 1 
which had been July 2017. Loan 3 was being applied for in the May of the following year and 
so it was a little out of date.
I have seen that Mr F had additional debt and a recent default but I do not consider that this 
information alone would have been enough to have not lent to Mr F. I do see that his total 
monthly repayments on any fixed term accounts which were active was £186 and I have 
seen that Mr F had declared other loans cost as being around £42 a week for loan 1 which 
may well have been reference to that. But even factoring that into the figures Morses had 
when he applied for loan 3, still it would have looked affordable. 
Without more from Mr F I understand why Morses lent to him for loan 3. I do not uphold 
Mr Fs complaint. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman