DRN-2454965
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, required him to re-activate 
his ISA, and about related issues.
What happened
Mr A had an Individual Savings Account (ISA) with first direct (sic). In July 2020, when he 
tried to access his account online he found that it was restricted, and that first direct required 
him to re-activate the account  which it described as dormant  in order to resume using it. 
This had happened because he had not made any deposits into the ISA in the previous tax 
year. First direct required Mr A to fill in a paper form and post it.
Mr A objected to the use of the word dormant, as he said this should be reserved for 
accounts which have not been used for several years, not just for one year. He objected to 
having to fill in a form, saying that other banks allow their customers to re-activate an 
account over the phone. He complained that the form was sent to him by second-class post, 
and that the return envelope was also second-class, so that the reactivation procedure took 
too long. He also complained that he had been sent the wrong form, which he described as 
an account opening form instead of a re-activation form.
First direct said it had only been complying with regulations when it had required Mr A to re-
activate the account. It was unable to re-activate the account over the phone. It confirmed 
that his ISA had been re-activated. Being dissatisfied with this answer, Mr A brought this 
complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He thought it didnt matter whether the 
account was described as dormant or by some other word. He said first direct was entitled to 
require a paper form, and that he could not compel first direct to re-activate ISAs over the 
phone. He said the correct form had been provided, since the same form was used both for 
opening and for re-activating an ISA, which was clearly indicated on the form. First direct 
was entitled to use second-class post, and if the matter was urgent then Mr A could have 
saved time by downloading the form from first directs website and printing it, instead of 
waiting for it to arrive by post. It had taken eight days to re-activate the account (from 7 to 15 
July), and this was not an unreasonable timescale.
Mr A asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said first direct didnt tell him when it re-
activated the account, so he hadnt known it was available to use. He had also understood 
the word dormant to mean that he could not withdraw or deposit money, which turned out 
not to be the case  he could still have made withdrawals.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First directs ISA terms and conditions state:
If you dont pay money into your account in a whole tax year, youll need to 
reactivate your account before you can pay money into your account in following tax 
years.
It is not in dispute that this term applied, so I think first direct was entitled to require Mr A to 
re-activate the account. Whatever may be the re-activation procedure in other banks, first 
direct is entitled to decide on its own procedures, so it can ask for a paper form if it wants 
one. It is not within my remit to compel first direct to change that.
I have seen the form. It is headed Cash ISA application/reactivation for the tax year 
2020/2021, so it is clearly the right form for re-opening an ISA. Although Mr A thought it was 
the wrong form, he still filled it in anyway, signed and dated it 13 July, and sent it back, and 
the ISA was re-activated on 15 July. That is eight days after 7 July, when Mr A discovered 
the problem, and I think that is a reasonable period of time. If Mr A needed to use the 
account urgently, then he could have saved time by downloading the form from first directs 
website.1 I dont think first direct was obliged to send it to him by first class post. It is normal 
for banks to use second class post.
I dont think it matters whether the accounts status in the meantime was described as 
dormant or not. Mr A was not making a withdrawal, he wanted to make a deposit, which he 
could not have done until the account was re-activated. So I dont think he was significantly 
misled about the status of the ISA.
Finally, Mr A has not complained to first direct about it not telling him when the account was 
ready to use, so I dont have jurisdiction to consider that point here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 https://www1.firstdirect.com/content/dam/fsdt/en/documents/pdf/cash_isa_application.pdf