DRN-3142538
The complaint
Mr N says that he was informed that a final bonus may be payable on two of his pension 
plans that he held with Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix). He didnt receive a final bonus on 
these plans. And he was later informed that they would never have received a final bonus 
due to the type of plans they were.  Because of this he feels he was misled.
Mr N also complains that when he came to take the benefits from these plans the 
information he needed to decide how to do this wasnt provided in a timely manner. 
What happened
Mr N has complained about two pension policies. These were deferred annuity plans and the 
benefits they provided were in the form of annuities only. Mr N claimed the benefits of the 
plans in 2020. 
Phoenix has said that, because of the way the plans are structured, they didnt have the 
ability to benefit from a final bonus. But it says that if the plans were converted into fund 
values then a final cash option factor may be applied. And a vesting bonus annuity may also 
be applied at the final settlement, depending on the performance of the with profits fund the 
plans are linked to. However, Mr Ns plans didnt end up receiving a vesting bonus. 
Both sides have provided copies of some of the correspondence about these plans that was 
issued in the period before Mr N took the benefits. I wont go through all of this in detail as 
both sides are aware of it. But the crux of Mr Ns complaint is that this correspondence 
generally says: 
a final bonus may be applied at retirement. Please remember that the value of your final 
bonus can go down as well as up. The addition and rate of your final bonus are not 
guaranteed
It should also be noted that this correspondence also (again generally) said that no final 
bonus is likely to be paid on these plans as the guaranteed benefits they contain are already 
high. 
Phoenix has considered Mr Ns complaint about the final bonus information and it has 
upheld it. It firstly noted that the correspondence that he received didnt show that he was 
guaranteed to receive a final bonus on these two pensions. But it agreed that the 
correspondence could have been clearer, and this has caused Mr N some inconvenience. It 
has offered compensation of £160 for this. 
Our Investigator also considered this part of Mr Ns complaint. And she agreed that the 
information Phoenix had provided could have been better. But she didnt think it told Mr N 
that he would definitely receive a final bonus, or that this information had caused him a loss. 
So, she said the offer Phoenix had made was fair. 
Mr N didnt agree with what the Investigator said about this issue.  Mr Ns ongoing complaint 
is that the reference to any final bonus was misleading as these policies would not have a 
final bonus applied. 
Mr N has also complained that he received some information about the policies late. Mr N 
was contacted by Phoenix in April 2020 about taking the benefits from these plans. Mr N 
requested some further information at this point. But he didnt receive this until around five 
months later. He says that this left him with very little time to consider his options. 
As part of our investigation it was discovered that this issue had been considered by Phoenix 
previously, and Mr N had accepted compensation of £75 for this delay. So, our Investigator 
considered that this part of Mr Ns complaint was resolved. Mr N didnt disagree with this. 
But, as no agreement has been reached about Mr Ns complaint overall, it has been referred 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the Investigator. 
Ill look first at Mr Ns complaint about the information Phoenix provided when he wanted to 
take his benefits. Its reasonable to say that that Phoenix delayed providing the information 
Mr N had asked for. 
But its been established that Mr N accepted some compensation for this mistake when 
Phoenix considered it earlier. So, whilst Mr N may not entirely agree with the earlier outcome 
reached, I think its reasonable to say that this part of his complaint was resolved. Because 
of this, I wont reconsider it. 
Turning to Mr Ns complaint about the information he was given about the possibility of a 
final bonus being applied to his pension plans. In order to uphold this complaint, it needs to 
be demonstrated that the information provided gave Mr N a false impression about how his 
plan would work in the future. And, added to this, to award any compensation, it needs to 
demonstrated that he acted on this information and this caused him some kind of loss or 
harm. 
I agree that it was potentially misleading to say that these pension plans may have a final 
bonus applied to them when this wouldnt happen. But, as Ive mentioned above, the plans 
could benefit from some form of bonus or uplift at the end of them. 
And Mr N was also informed that any bonus or alteration to the plan annuity amounts, at the 
end of their life, was not guaranteed. And he was also correctly informed that any kind of 
uplift or bonus at the end of them was very unlikely. So, to indicate that this was the case, albeit using the wrong terminology, wasnt entirely 
incorrect and it didnt give Mr N a false impression of how the plans would ultimately work. 
And Mr N hasnt said that he acted on this is information in any way. So, its hard to see how 
this has caused Mr N any kind of loss or damage. 
So, whilst Im sure this was frustrating for Mr N, I think the compensation that Phoenix have 
offered in this respect is fair. 
Putting things right
Phoenix should pay Mr N £160. If Phoenix has already paid this it doesnt have to pay it 
again. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint.
If Mr N accepts this decision Phoenix Life Limited should put things right by doing what Ive 
said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman