DRN-3781697
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (TPF) rejected his claim under section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of a timeshare purchase. The purchase was 
made by Mr M and his wife but the credit card account is in his name so the complaint is 
made by him alone. For convenience I will refer to the purchases as having been made by 
Mr M alone.
What happened
In September 2009 Mr M purchased a floating weeks timeshare membership from a 
company I will call E at a cost of £3,075. He upgraded his membership in March 2011 at a 
cost of £2,100.
Mr M was initially represented by a claims management company (CMC) which made a 
complaint to TPF on his behalf in February 2017. It said that:
Mr M was pressurised into making the purchases.
He was assured that the management fees would not increase beyond inflation rates.
He was told that he could withdraw at any time at no cost.
He was told he could sell at any time.
He said the offer was only available that day.
The offer was that he could book a variety of locations and
He would have access to cheap flights.
The CMC said that he discovered he had purchased a winter months week and the flights 
were more expensive. On holiday in March 2011 he was persuaded to upgrade. It also said 
that a subsequent holiday was not satisfactory as the accommodation was unsuitable. It 
added that due to mobility issues Mr M had not made use of the timeshare in recent years.
Finally, it said the maintenance fees had increased significantly.
TPF rejected the claim and said it didnt have sufficient evidence of misrepresentation. The 
matter was referred to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators who 
didnt recommend it be upheld.
She said that the claim had been made out of time apart from that element covered by s 
140A CCA. She said that she appreciated there would have been verbal representations in 
addition to the documentation, but she could not say that TPF had been wrong to reach the 
conclusion it had.
Mr M didnt agree and said the product had been grossly misrepresented and much of that 
was verbal. He said that he had met other customers of E on his holidays who had also 
complained. He said that he had been told that the time limit did not apply as he had 
complained to E within six years of purchase.
I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
Section 75
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The is no dispute that the chain is intact and so I have to consider if there has been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation.
S 56 and 140A
Section 56 of the CCA is also relevant. In broad terms this means that any negotiations 
between Mr M and E are deemed to have been conducted by E as an agent for TPF. This 
includes any representations made by E and any other dealings between them.
The statutory agency created by section 56 of the CCA is also relevant in the context of 
section 140A as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of E will be deemed to be the 
responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding 
whether an unfair relationship exists between you and the lender.
Time Limits
Under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation cannot 
generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. A 
misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of fact or law made by one party to a 
contract which is untrue and which induces the other party into that contract. The CMC S 
has set out in some detail the various claims made to Mr M and which led him to agree to 
buy the timeshare. They were all made on or before 18 September 2009, so that is the date 
on which any cause of action arose.
The Limitation Act applies in a similar way to claims for breach of contract. On the face of it, 
the claims which the CMC have raised are claims that matters were misrepresented, rather 
than being claims for breach of contract. It is likely however that any breach that may be 
alleged occurred many years ago.
No claim was made until the CMC contacted TPF in February 2017, nearly seven years 
later. I think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim was made 
outside the time limits in the Limitation Act. It follows in my view that it was reasonable for 
TPF to decline to consider the misrepresentation and breach of contract claims under 
section 75 and the claims under section 56.I appreciate the upgrade was purchased March 2011 and Mr M has said this was new 
contract. Although I have not seen details if the documentation provided it is usual for an 
upgrade to be to an existing contract and the time would begin from the date of that 
agreement which means that the claim was made out of time. However, even if it was made 
in time I do not consider I can say that there is clear evidence of misrepresentation.
Misrepresentation
As our investigator has explained we can consider misrepresentation via s140A. In 
considering section 140A, I have had particular regard to whether the loan and sale were 
brought about by selling methods on the part of E that were unfair or misleading. I share our 
investigators view that it is unlikely a court would conclude that Es actions as an agent of 
TPF created an unfair debtor  creditor relationship.
A misrepresentation is when a false statement of fact has been made and that false 
statement of fact induced a consumer to purchase the goods or services. In order to find a 
misrepresentation has occurred, there must be proof that a false statement of fact has been 
made and it needs to be decided that that false statement induced the consumer to enter 
into the agreement.
Mr M relies on his recollection of what he and his wife were told when making the purchases. 
As our investigator has pointed out the documentary evidence does not show there was 
misrepresentation by E. I have taken note of his testimony and his statement that he is 
aware of others who share his experiences. But I do not consider that is enough.
I appreciate that claims will have been made by representatives of E which will have put the 
best possible gloss on the products. However, it is not clear that what was said amounted to 
misrepresentation. Mr M is asking TPF to make a significant payment and it only reasonable 
to expect that it is given clear evidence to allow it to do so. I do not consider I can say that 
the evidence is sufficient to require me to direct TPF to uphold his complaint.
I have also noted that it is implicit from comments made by Mr M that he had a number of 
holidays with E and only in recent years did these once to an end due to mobility issues. I 
conclude that this complaint should not be upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TPF said it had nothing further to add to my provisional decision and Mr M did not respond 
despite being sent a reminder. As such I have been given no grounds which would allow me 
to reach a different conclusion. Therefore my provisional decision stands.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman