DRN-3028558
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy Assurant General Insurance Limited turned down a claim she made after 
a mobile phone was stolen.
What happened
Miss G has cover through her bank account for her mobile phone. Assurant are the insurer 
of that policy. At the end of April 2021 Miss G made a claim as she said her phone had been 
stolen. Assurant turned down the claim because it said it was a requirement that she owned 
the item she was making a claim for. In this case it thought the phone was owned by her 
mother. However, it accepted some of its customer service could have been better and 
offered to pay Miss G £25. 
Our investigator accepted Miss Gs mother had purchased the phone and the contract was 
in her name. However, she was satisfied it belonged to Miss G; she was the user of it, she 
paid the monthly bills to the network provider, the phone was linked to her email address and 
her mother had confirmed that, while shed taken out the contract, this had been as a gift for 
Miss G. She thought Assurant should reconsider the claim against the remaining policy 
terms. 
Miss G agreed. Assurant didnt. It said the proof of purchase documentation showed that 
Miss Gs mother was the owner of the phone and it believed Miss G simply used it. In order 
to meet the policy terms the contract and phone would need to have been transferred into 
her name by her network provider and that hadnt happened. It also said if there was a debt 
on the account it would be Miss Gs mother who would be liable for that. So I need to reach 
a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Assurant has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Miss Gs policy. In relation to ownership these 
say:
We need to know that the mobile phone, SIM card and accessories you are claiming for are 
yours. Therefore you may need to provide some form of proof of ownership. You will need to 
be able to tell us the make and model of your mobile phone. We may ask to see something 
that tells us that the items you are claiming for belong to you and confirms the make, model, 
memory size and IMEI number of your mobile phone 
Proof of ownership could include a till receipt or documentation from your airtime provider. If 
you dont have any proof of ownership we may decline your claim.
As a general rule, policyholders can only insure items they own. So Im satisfied Assurant 
were entitled to ask for evidence to show Miss G owned the stolen phone. And I dont think 
theres any dispute Miss Gs mother purchased the phone. Theres some dispute over why 
that was but I accept at the immediate point of purchase it would have been her phone. I 
also appreciate that as the contract remains in her mothers name its likely she would be 
liable for any debt on that account. 
But I think the other evidence shows ownership of the phone was then transferred to Miss G. 
Its not in dispute Miss G has been paying the monthly contract and its registered to her 
address. Nor is it in dispute that shes been the user of the phone and I understand its linked 
solely to her email account. I accept its possible the phone could nevertheless have been a 
long term loan but Miss Gs mother has specifically said it was a gift and is Miss Gs 
property. 
The policy terms dont say exactly whats required to satisfy the proof of ownership 
requirement. In particular they dont, as Assurant suggest, say Miss G would need to have 
had the phone transferred into her name by her network provider.  What they ask for is 
something to show the items being claimed for belong to you. They set out some things 
which might show that, but I think its clear those are examples rather than being a 
prescriptive list. And looking at the evidence in this case I think Miss G has done enough to 
show the phone belonged to her and not her mother. So I think Assurant were wrong to turn 
down the claim. 
Assurant has also drawn attention to screenshots Miss G provided showing her phone had 
been found by the local police department and says these are unexplained. Im not clear 
whether theres an outstanding issue here as I can see Miss G has said she was advised by 
the police and her network provider these werent genuine. However, if Assurant does have 
outstanding concerns it will be able to look into these when it reconsiders the claim.  
Putting things right
Assurant will need to reconsider the claim Miss G made in line with the remaining policy 
terms. It will also need to pay Miss G the previously agreed compensation of £25 if it hasnt 
already done so.   
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Assurant General Insurance Limited will need to put 
things right by doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman