DRN-2234977
The complaint
Ms B complained about a loan given to her by the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc. She said she 
didnt understand it, and she expected to have paid off more of the debt by now. 
What happened
Ms B said she had taken a loan of £6,000 with RBS in early 2019. She said shed applied 
through the app, and the money was in her account the next day. But Ms B said she didnt 
understand it, and she expected that the overall debt wouldve come down more by now. 
Ms B has indicated that she might have liked to pay the loan off early, but the amount she 
had available to pay wasnt enough to clear the loan. She said that she felt she was being 
treated unfairly because she didnt understand the loan.
RBS said that it had given Ms B all the required information on her loan through her online 
application, and it sent us details of what she saw when she made her application. RBS said 
that Ms B hadnt made payments to her loan since the start of the year.
Ms B said that this was now affecting her credit score. She said RBS was taking action to 
enforce the debt.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that RBS gave Ms B 
all the required information about the loan when she applied, as well as an opportunity to ask 
any questions before she completed the loan application. And then she had 14 days when 
she could cancel after the loan was granted. 
Our investigator said that Ms B had already paid almost £1,000 off her loan. Although the 
balance to be paid off was still high, that was because shed only been paying for a little 
more than a year. The loan was due to run for 48 months. Our investigator didnt think RBS 
had done anything wrong. 
Our investigator said shed noted Ms B had been having difficulties making repayments. She 
suggested Ms B discuss this with RBS, and also mentioned some other possible sources of 
free advice. 
Ms B didnt agree. She said shed called RBS to ask how the loan worked and she still didnt 
understand now the whole repayment thing or how interest worked. She was very 
disappointed that we didnt think RBS had done anything wrong. She wanted her complaint 
to be considered by an ombudsman, so this complaint came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Im really sorry to hear that Ms B has been struggling recently. I hope shes been able to 
discuss the problems shes been having paying this loan with RBS, and to get some 
independent advice to help her. Our service can provide more details on sources of advice if 
she would like. 
Ive looked at her loan carefully. I dont think she has been treated unfairly in how her 
repayments were calculated, or how they were applied to the loan when she made them. 
When Ms B took out this loan, she was shown a loan agreement. That agreement said she 
would pay 48 payments of about £190 each. Those payments are the same every month, 
they dont go down over the term of the loan. I think that was clear when Ms B took the loan 
out. 
Ms B told us she expected that the interest rate would take a certain amount every month. 
She thought about 20% of each payment would go to her loan, and the rest would come off 
the overall debt, but she said apparently not. She said she was very upset to find she still 
owed over £5,000 after a year. 
I know it can be disappointing to look at how much has been repaid in the first stages of a 
loan, but that is how Id expect a loan like this to work.
When Ms B makes a monthly payment, each month some of that amount goes to cover 
interest on her borrowing, and some goes to pay off the amount which she originally 
borrowed  the capital. But the interest payment isnt the same every month. The interest 
shes charged makes up more of each payment at the start of the loan. Thats just because 
she hasnt yet paid back much of the capital. So she owes RBS more money then. 
When Ms B started to repay this loan, a little more than half of each monthly payment was 
going to pay the monthly interest. The rest was reducing the capital.
But that changes over the time shes paying back the loan. Every payment she makes pays 
back some of what shes borrowed. It reduces the capital. And with less borrowing, the 
interest payment goes down. So it makes up less of what shes paying, month by month.
All Ms Bs payments are the same size, and that means each month less of her money is 
used for the interest payment, more is used for the capital. At the start of the loan, more than 
half of her payment was interest, but after the first year, this had already changed, and more 
than half of her monthly repayment was going to pay back the capital. 
I understand Ms B was expecting this loan to work differently. She told us shed spoken to 
RBS and it hadnt been able to explain this to her. Because Ms B said she took this loan out 
online and the money just arrived in her account the next day, I think its likely that Ms B has 
spoken to RBS more recently. I would expect that if shed spoken to RBS before taking out 
the loan, and it hadnt explained things to her, she would not have gone ahead with the 
borrowing. 
As I know Ms B is having difficulties at the moment, I realise shell find my decision very 
disappointing, but I dont think that RBS made a mistake in setting up her loan, or in how its 
applied her repayments. I dont think it has been treating her any differently to any other 
borrower, and I dont think its been unfair. So Im sorry to have to tell Ms B that I dont think 
this complaint should be upheld.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman