DRN-4495531
Complaint
Mrs C has complained about a personal loan Chetwood Financial Limited (trading as Better 
Borrow) which she says was unfairly lent to her. She says the loan was never affordable 
given her existing debts and so shouldnt have been lent to.
Background
Better Borrow provided Mrs C with a loan for £10,000.00 in December 2021. This loan had 
an APR of 26.8% was due to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £285.01 followed by 1 
final monthly instalment of £284.85.
One of our investigators reviewed what Mrs C and Better Borrow had told us. She thought 
that Better Borrow hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs C unfairly when it provided this 
loan and so didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Cs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why 
in a little more detail.
Better Borrow needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is that Better Borrow needed to carry out proportionate checks to 
be able to understand whether Mrs C could afford to make her repayments before providing 
this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to provide loans to a customer 
irresponsibly.
Better Borrow says it approved Mrs Cs application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
statistical data and information on a credit search it carried out which showed Mrs Cs 
existing commitments were relatively well maintained at the time. 
In Better Borrows view all of the information it gathered showed that Mrs C could afford to 
make the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Mrs C has said she 
already had a lot of debt and so she couldnt afford this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Mrs C and Better Borrow have said. 
As Better Borrow asked Mrs C about her income and expenditure and also carried out a 
credit check, its clear that Better Borrow did obtain a reasonable amount of information 
before it decided to proceed with Mrs Cs application. 
Having looked at the credit check, its clear that Mrs C had some existing debts. However, 
while I accept that Mrs C might not agree with this, I dont think that these were excessive in 
comparison to her income. Furthermore, the information from the time shows that Mrs Cs 
selected loan purpose was debt consolidation. 
I dont know whether Mrs C did go on to consolidate her debts into just this loan. But Better 
Borrow could only make a reasonable decision based on the information it had available at 
the time. It wont have known whether Mrs C would actually pay off her existing balances  
all it could do was take reasonable steps and rely on assurances from Mrs C that this would 
be done with the funds from this loan. So Im satisfied that the proceeds of this loan could 
and should have been used to clear all of the existing balances, other than her mortgage, 
which showed on the credit search Better Borrow carried out on Mrs C. 
And as this was a first loan Better Borrow was arranging for Mrs C, there wasnt a history of        
Mrs C obtaining funds and then failing to consolidate debts elsewhere in the way she 
committed to either. So Better Borrow was reasonably entitled to believe that Mrs C would 
be left in a better position after being provided with this loan.
I accept that Mrs Cs actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information she provided, or the information Better Borrow obtained. She says that her 
income was significantly lower than what she declared and that she had also only just taken 
out a loan in the month before this one. 
But Better Borrow wouldnt have known this and I dont think that it could be expected to 
know this either. I say this because it cross-checked Mrs Cs income declaration against 
information about the funds that were going into her current account each month, which it 
obtained from a credit reference agency. This cross-checking suggested Mrs Cs declaration 
wasnt unreasonable. 
Furthermore, the credit check carried out didnt show the additional loan Mrs C is referring 
to. This is likely to be because Mrs C applied for this loan before her credit file had had a 
chance to reflect the loan that she applied for in the leadup to her application for this one.
I should also explain that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a firm did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the 
lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
have extended into Better Borrow doing anything further.
As this is the case, I dont think that Better Borrow did anything wrong when providing this 
loan to Mrs C - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. And this would even more so prove to be the case if Mrs C did go on to repay her existing debts as her recorded loan purpose said 
she would. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Better Borrow didnt treat    
Mrs C unfairly or unreasonably when lending to her. And Im not upholding Mrs Cs 
complaint. I appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Mrs C  as she clearly feels 
strongly about this matter. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman