DRN-4404944
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont refund the money he lost in a scam.
What happened
Mr Z is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mr Z throughout this decision.
Mr Z says that he saw an advertisement for a company Ill refer to as L on social media. L 
offered investment opportunities. Mr Z registered his interest and shortly afterwards received 
a call from a broker at L. The broker told Mr Z he could start by investing a small amount, 
could make money instantly and would eventually be in a position where he could pay off his 
mortgage. Mr Z was told that L was based abroad but also had an office in London. 
Mr Z was sent a link to Ls website, and he thought it looked professional. He was also able 
to find information in other languages including Mr Zs native language. The website showed 
graphs and Ls contact details. Mr Z says he also looked up L and didnt find any negative 
reviews. 
The advisor helped Mr Z to open a trading account and he was required to provide personal 
information and identification. He was also given help to open an account with Revolut and a 
cryptocurrency exchange. Mr Z was told that once his account was verified, hed be given an 
account manager. The account manager then called him, and Mr Z made his first payment of 
£195 by card. After hed made the payment, he could see it in his trading account. The 
account manager assigned to Mr Z kept in regular contact with him by phone and explained 
the trades that were being made on his behalf. 
Mr Z thinks he made around 500USD from this initial payment which encouraged him to 
deposit more, and Mr Z was told that hed receive higher profits if he did so. I have listed in 
the table below all the payments Mr Z made.
By around February 2022 Mr Z 
says he had a profit of around 
115,000USD which he wanted to 
withdraw. Mr Z was told that in 
order to do so he needed to pay 
taxes. Mr Z took out another loan 
and tried to pay £9,965 to his 
account at the cryptocurrency 
exchange but it bounced back 
because the exchange wanted 
proof of income information. Mr Z was persuaded to open an account with a different 
provider and the payment was made. Mr Z made this payment and was then asked for still 
Date Amount Recipient and method
10/12/21 £195 1 - card
24/12/21 £4,000 2 - transfer
05/01/22 £3,000 2- transfer
12/01/22 £10,000 2 - transfer
25/01/22 £16,000 2 - transfer
31/01/22 £7,000 2 - transfer
01/02/22 £9,960 3 - card
04/02/22 £11,300 3 - card
TOTAL £61,455more funds to exchange cryptocurrency to Euros. At this stage he questioned the account 
manager, who told him he was following the rules set out by the exchange. Mr Z contacted 
the exchange and was told it was likely hed been scammed. He got in touch with Revolut.
Revolut say that in mid-February 2022 it contacted Mr Z for some information. Mr Z 
responded on 17 March and said he was the victim of a scam. Revolut asked some 
questions that Mr Z didnt respond so Revolut said it couldnt complete an investigation. Mr 
Zs representative then complained in June 2022. In its response Revolut asked for more 
information but said that based on what had been provided it wasnt upholding the complaint. 
Mr Z was unhappy with Revoluts response and brought a complaint to this service. He 
asked for a full refund and for his representatives fees to be paid. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Zs complaint communicated with Revolut and as a 
result, Revolut offered to refund Mr Z half of his total loss. This offer was put to Mr Z who 
asked if Revolut would consider reducing Mr Zs share of liability to 25%. This was because 
Mr Z saw the advert on a social media site he thought had been vetted, saw good reviews of 
L, noted that the address given by Ls advisors matched what he found and didnt know of 
any other research he could complete.
The investigator then issued a view which said she didnt think Revoluts offer was fair and 
Revolut should refund the payments Mr Z made prior to February 2022 in full and 50% of 
transfers after that. They felt that there should be no deduction for the early payments for a 
number of reasons including:
- Ls website looked professional and showed information in multiple languages.
- L had multiple offices, which Mr Z checked online.
- L followed know your customer procedures (KYC) and provided paperwork.
- Although the rate of return was high Mr Z was an inexperienced investor and had 
seen online that cryptocurrency could bring high returns.
From February 2022 though, Mr Z made payments for tax to release his funds and there 
were enough red flags that he ought reasonably to have been concerned about making the 
payments. 
Mr Z accepted the investigators findings, but Revolut did not. In summary, it said:
- Mr Z should be held partly responsible for his loss from the beginning.
- Theres no evidence Mr Z checked Ls offices online and as the company didnt exist, 
hed have been unable to find such evidence.
- Mr Zs profits doubled or tripled in days meaning the deal was too good to be true. 
- Mr Z didnt complete any research before agreeing to send over £60,000 to L. 
Although he said hed checked L online, Revolut couldnt find any websites that 
mentioned L at the time Mr Z made the first payment.
- Not everything on social media is true and this is widely known.
- Following a KYC process and providing information in different languages doesnt 
mean a company is legitimate and relying on these factors doesnt mean Mr Z isnt 
partly responsible for his loss. 
- Revolut didnt understand why Mr Z wasnt being held responsible from the 
beginning.
The complaint was passed to me to consider. I issued a provisional decision on 26 
September 2023. In the What Ive provisionally decided  and why section of my 
provisional decision I said:Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. A customer will then be responsible for 
those transactions that they have authorised. 
Its not in dispute here that Mr Z authorised the payments. So while I recognise that he didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, the starting position in law is that Revolut was obliged 
to follow his instructions and process the payments. Mr Z isnt automatically entitled to a 
refund. 
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victim to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether Revolut did enough to 
try to keep Mr Zs account safe. 
The first payment Mr Z made was a card payment that wasnt unusual. I wouldnt have 
expected Revolut to have any concerns about it. The next two payments (£4,000 and 
£3,000) werent for what Id consider to be particularly large amounts. Mr Z opened the 
account specifically to make these payments, so there wasnt any previous account activity 
for Revolut to compare the payment to. In any event, Revolut provided an on-screen warning 
when Mr Z set up the new payee on 24 December 2021 which said,
Suspicious transfer detected
Our system has flagged this payment as a potential scam. Are you sure you want to 
proceed? Please note, if you proceed with authorising the payment we may not be able to 
recover your money afterwards.
Taking all this into account, I think Revolut acted reasonably in allowing these first two 
payments to be processed. 
I think the position changed when Mr Z made a payment for £10,000 on 12 January 2022 
though. This represented a significant increase from previous payments and was to an 
exchange known to provide cryptocurrency. There was also a pattern of increasing 
payments which is common to scams of this nature. Revolut say it didnt intervene after the 
first payment was made when a warning was given because its system established the 
legitimate exchange as an existing payee so it would have been difficult to identify anything 
unusual. But I think Revolut needed to go further and at the very least provide a more 
tailored warning that set out the common features of cryptocurrency scams and how to avoid 
falling victim to them  as well as giving Mr Z access to advice from a specialist.
I also note that Revolut told this service Mr Z said the reason for opening the account was to 
spend while travelling. It was clear by this stage that Mr Z wasnt using his account for the 
stated purpose and a common scam pattern was emerging with an initial small card payment 
and transactions increasing in value over time. 
I consider Mr Z would have taken additional steps before making further payments had 
appropriate intervention taken place. He has told us that he took out loans to fund this 
investment so would have been more cautious given the implications of paying these funds 
back. There were lots of red flags here too, so had Revolut brought the scam to life Im persuaded Mr Z would have recognised them. After all, he heard about the investment on 
social media, thought he was making exceptional returns, had no contract to set out what 
was agreed between him and L and L wasnt authorised. 
Given that Im satisfied the £10,000 loss could have been prevented it follows that Revolut 
has some liability for this payment and all future payments. I have gone on to consider 
whether Mr Z should be held partially responsible for his loss. After considering the position 
carefully Im persuaded that he should and will explain why. 
-Mr Z found the investment opportunity on a social networking site so should have 
approached the opportunity with a degree of caution. 
-Mr Z only accessed Ls website via a link provided by scammer. L actually had no 
online presence, and this would have been apparent if Mr Z searched for L.
-I havent found any reviews of L that Mr Z might have seen at the time he invested. 
So, whilst this means there were no negative reviews of L, I dont think Mr Z ought 
reasonably to have been reassured of Ls existence and legitimacy. I think the lack of 
any reference to L ought to have been very concerning.
-The rates of return offered and shown on Ls website were too good to be true. Given 
this, even as an inexperienced investor, I think Mr Z ought to have taken additional 
steps to ensure L was legitimate.
-Mr Z wasnt provided with terms and conditions as would be expected from a genuine 
business. The only documentation Mr Z was provided with before he made any 
transfers is an invoice dated 10 December 2021. This refers to a charge of €6,396 
that needs to be paid before 11 February 2022 to receive a payout of €60,000. This 
doesnt tie in with the other information about this scam. There are also some 
concerning factors about the invoice. It discusses the current bitcoin rate on 2 July 
2022  which is well after the date of the invoice. 
-Mr Zs representative says that Mr Z checked the address of L given on its website. 
Im uncertain what checks were completed or how this reassured Mr Z.
-The emails from L that Mr Z has provided dont show a logo, contact details or any 
form of disclaimer so dont look like they are from a genuine business. 
When considered together, these factors lead me to conclude Mr Z should share the 
responsibility for his loss.
Ive considered whether Revolut could have done more to recover Mr Zs lost funds but dont 
think it could. Chargeback wouldnt have been successful in respect of the card payments to 
the genuine exchanges. Revolut also couldnt recover the lost funds that were transferred 
from Mr Zs Revolut account as they were passed through an exchange that provided the 
service Mr Z expected. 
Overall, whilst Im really sorry to hear about this cruel scam and of the impact it has had on 
Mr Z, I cant fairly ask Revolut to do more than refund 50% of Mr Zs loss from the payment 
of £10,000 onwards, plus interest as set out below. If Revolut is still prepared to offer 50% of 
Mr Zs total loss it should let me know in its response to this provisional decision.
Mr Z and Revolut both responded to say they agree with my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional findings (as set out above) and neither has raised 
any points for me to consider I see no reason to depart from it. As I have set out my decision 
above, I wont repeat it here.  My final decision
I require Revolut Ltd to:
- Refund £27,130;
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
each transaction to the date of settlement. 
If Revolut Ltd considers it is required by HM Revenue and Customs to take income tax from 
the 8% simple interest award, it should tell Mr Z how much it has taken off. It should also 
give Mr Z a certificate showing this if asked for one, so he can reclaim tax from HM Revenue 
and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman