DRN-3315509
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy Metro Bank PLC has refunded card payments he made from his Metro 
account to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr O has told us he was searching online for investment opportunities and came across 
company C. He registered for an account and with the help of a broker, made payments 
into this account between January and June 2018. This case relates to the payments he 
made from his Metro account between January and April 2018. Mr O did receive some 
returns on his investments, but when he asked to withdraw his funds, the broker cut all forms 
of communication with him and the online platform he used was taken down.
In August 2019, Mr O raised a chargeback claim with Metro. He explained hed been the 
victim of a scam and he was unhappy Metro had allowed these payments to be made. He 
also mentioned his rights under the Consumer Credit Act.
Metro didnt uphold Mr Os claim or his subsequent complaint. It explained it couldnt pursue 
a chargeback claim as hed been scammed into investing, which isnt something that is 
covered under the Mastercard chargeback rules. And it didnt think it needed to ask Mr O 
more about the payments themselves or stopped these payments. It also said that the 
Consumer Credit Act didnt apply in this case, as Mr O had paid on a debit card, not by 
credit.
Mr O brought his complaint to our service. He wanted his money back, as he considered 
Metro shouldve used the chargeback process to recover his funds. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint on chargeback rights, but did uphold it elsewhere. Metro disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022. I said I wasnt intending to 
uphold the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
Our service has already set out to Mr O why we dont consider Metro shouldve 
recovered his funds via chargeback. Im in agreement with our investigator that as 
Mr O made the payments for an investment scam, his claim wouldnt have been 
successful. Mastercard has specifically written rules that exclude people in Mr Os 
position being able to recover their funds this way. I think its also worth noting that 
even if Mastercard did allow Mr O to carry out a chargeback under these grounds, 
which it doesnt, Mr O is seeking to receive funds back from company O and 
company Z. But saying he was defrauded by C. Ive seen no paper trail or evidence 
to date which links these firms, so it seems it still wouldve been unsuccessful.
Ive then gone on to consider Metros responsibilities and whether the payments in 
question ought to have triggered an intervention by Metro.
Mr O made two smaller payments to his C account, before sending a larger one of 
£3,609.22. Our investigator considered this third payment shouldve been stopped by 
Metro and it shouldve asked Mr O more questions about what he was doing. But I 
dont agree.
As our investigator set out, there were no warnings for Z, who Mr O paid this sum to, 
on the IOSCO or the FCA website. So I dont think there shouldve been something 
more automated on Metros system to alert it to this payment and for it to block it until 
further investigations were done. Mr O has said that Metro didnt warn him this was 
potentially a scam or fraud, but Ive not seen anything to suggest it had any indication 
that it was. Hes also said that a simple online search wouldve shown C had bad 
reviews etc, but I wouldnt have expected his bank to perform such a search. It had 
no idea who C was, he didnt pay them. And Mr O told us he did his own research to 
find an investment firm, but it seems he didnt see these warnings at the time, despite 
specifically looking into C and with his history of investing.
Going back to the payments made, while I accept the amount Mr O was investing 
had jumped when he made the £3,609.22 payment, I dont think its value was 
enough to trigger Metro to intervene.
Mr O had made two previous international payments in the weeks before making this 
payment, so I dont agree an international payment in itself was unusual. While a 
company is required to be authorised by the FCA to trade in the UK, it seems Mr O 
was aware he was paying an international company and being charged a foreign 
exchange fee to move his money to US dollars. This was the third payment hed 
made with a foreign transaction fee. But he continued, so it seems he was happy to 
pay a company based abroad. And hed moved £9,800 into his account before 
making this c.£3,600 payment. So he didnt clear his account when he made this 
payment. It isnt unusual for someone to make a large payment out of their account, 
after transferring a large sum in. So while I accept this payment was much higher 
than the first two, I dont agree Metro shouldve intervened here.
Following this payment, Mr O made two other payments less than £3,609.22, 
followed by a payment for £3,997.97. I accept this is another larger payment, but as I 
dont agree the first larger payment shouldve flagged up to Metro, I dont agree this 
payment should either. Its only for c.£400 more than the first payment, so I dont 
consider the jump between these two enough that it shouldve flagged on Metros 
systems, when the first payment wouldnt have. And after this, the final payment from 
Metro was less again. So I dont consider Metro shouldve stopped any of Mr Os 
payments.
I appreciate Mr O has been through a very difficult time and been the unfortunate 
victim of a scammer, but I dont agree Metro does need to refund any of the 
payments he made.
Metro responded to my provisional decision and said it had no further points to make. Mr O 
disagreed with the decision, but also had nothing further to provide. So the complaint has 
been returned to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has explained that he disagrees as he considers his payments shouldve triggered. Ive 
reviewed the whole case before reaching this final decision, but I still dont agree with this 
view.Metro has a duty to process the thousands of payments its consumers request to be made 
each day. And so there needs to be a good reason for it to not process a payment and 
instead contact a consumer and intervene. I cant agree that in this case that Mr Os 
payment did meet that test. I accept the third payment was higher than the previous 
payments, but I dont agree it was high enough for Metro to stop it. And for the other reasons 
set out above, Mr Os payment history and him moving money into the account, I dont think 
there was enough unusual activity in this case to trigger any intervention.
As Mr O wasnt able to provide any further evidence for me to consider, while I have 
reviewed my findings on triggers, Im still of the opinion that Metro didnt need to intervene 
when he made payments to Z for the scammer. So Im still not asking it to refund him any of 
the payments he made.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman