DRN-2200388
The complaint
Mr C says Trading 212 UK Limited (T212) breached its obligation to execute a buy trade 
order that he placed and it accepted. He seeks compensation in the form of the relevant 
shareholding at the price he says the order was accepted and ought to have been executed.
What happened
The sequence of key events  on 20 and 21 May 2020  is as follows:
The balance in Mr Cs T212 trading account was initially £3,000.
He placed a market order to buy 1,000 shares in Hotel Chocolat (HC); he says the 
order was priced at £2.745 per share and was accepted on this basis (at a total cost 
of £2,745), pending execution.
The account balance thereafter should have been £255, but it remained £3,000 
because the HC trade was yet to be executed.
He subsequently placed a market order to buy 2,500 shares in Greatland Gold 
(GG); this was priced and executed at £0.0885, resulting in a total cost of £221.25.
The account balance was then £2,778.75.
Thereafter, on 21 May, Mr C received notice that the HC order had not been 
executed and had been cancelled due to insufficient funds in the account.
T212 stands by the cancellation of the HC order and, in the main, it says:
The same sequence of events summarised above. [However, it erroneously 
calculated the total cost of the GG purchase as £212.50  instead of £221.25.]
Mr C could invest no more than 95% of the funds in his account (the 95% rule).
There was better market liquidity (and timing) for the GG order, that is why it was 
executed first; the shares required to execute the HC order only became available in 
the market the following morning.
At the time the HC order could have been executed Mr Cs account balance was 
£2,787.50 [This being another error resulting from the first noted above; the account 
balance was actually £2,778.75.]
Based on the 95% rule, he had only £2,648.12 [Another error resulting from the two 
noted above.] available to invest. 
The price for HC around the time the order could have been executed  but had to be 
cancelled  was between £2.67 and £2.75; on this basis he would have required at 
least £2,670 available to invest; this was greater than the £2,648.12 he had available 
to invest so he had insufficient available funds and the order was cancelled.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should be 
upheld. In the main, he said:
For the reasons given by T212, no wrongdoing was committed in the execution of the 
GG order before the HC order, even though the latter was placed before the former.
However, T212 was wrong to cancel the HC order.
Given that the HC order was cancelled at the price of around £2.75 Mr Cs assertion 
that the order was accepted at the price of £2.745 is plausible. If the order was 
executed at £2.75 this would have resulted in a total cost of £2,750 which was below 
the account balance at the time of £2,778.75. Mr C had enough funds to cater for the 
execution of the HC order.
At the time Mr C placed the HC order his account balance was £3,000, and based on 
the 95% rule he had £2,850 available to invest; so even at the price of £2.75 (and 
total cost of £2,750) he was not in breach of the rule; and the terms for the account 
confirm that the rule applied at the point of placing an order, not at the point of 
execution.
T212 should compensate Mr C by buying 1,000 shares of HC for him and selling 
them to him at the total cost of £2,750 (which is what they would have cost him had 
the order been executed); any difference between the total cost to T212 in buying the 
shares and the total of £2,750 to be paid by Mr C should be incurred by T212.
T212 disagreed with this outcome and asked for a review. It maintained its justification of the 
cancellation, as summarised above, and it considered that the investigators interpretation of 
its terms for the 95% rule applied is wrong. It said the rule, in practice, essentially applied at 
the point of purchasing stock (execution) and its application was not limited to the point of 
placing an order. It stressed that the HC order could not have been executed if Mr C lacked 
available funds to cover the total cost and that he lacked such available funds, as it has 
explained (summarised above). It also argued that Mr C had failed to show any mitigation on 
his part, as he could have reduced the size of his purchase on 21 May in order to place a 
new order that could have been executed based on his available funds.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Like the investigator, I too do not consider that T212 did anything wrong in executing the GG 
order before the HC order. Available evidence is that there was better liquidity in the market 
for the former, which made it faster to fill than the time it took to fill the latter. I also do not 
consider this to be the crux of Mr Cs complaint. His claim appears to be focused on the 
cancellation of the HC order, and less so on what happened to the GG order.
T212 appears to have misguided itself in disputing this complaint, given that the facts  
which it accepts  quite clearly show support for Mr Cs claim. The same applies to the terms 
and conditions for the account  they too support his claim.
The terms for the account create a definitive distinction between the placement of a trade 
order and its execution. Both are not treated as a single activity in the manner T212 appears 
to have argued. Or, in the alternative, the terms do not refer to the placement of a trade and 
the execution of a trade in an interchangeable context  which is the context that also 
appears to have been suggested in T212s argument. It is a matter of fact  and practice  
that they were/are different activities.
Term 10.14 clearly states that the 95% rule applies at the point a trade order is placed and, 
like the investigator, I have not found a term  and we have not been directed by T212 to a 
term  which says it also applied at the point a trade order is executed. I consider that the above finding supports the view taken by the investigator, and Mr Cs 
assertion that the HC order was not in breach of the 95% rule. The order was placed (and 
accepted) at the total cost of £2,745 when his account balance was £3,000; and the total 
cost was less than 95% of the account balance. For the sake of completeness, I consider it 
more likely (than not) that the order acceptance took place at the price of £2.745 as he says 
 given that it is a price within the range around the relevant period  and that the order was 
accepted  given that it would otherwise have been rejected immediately, which was not the 
case.
It is inaccurate to say Mr Cs account balance could not cater for the total cost of the HC 
order at the point of execution. That total cost was £2,750 (at most). This is conceded by 
T212. At the relevant time Mr Cs account balance was £2,778.75 - £28.15 more than he 
needed to cover the cost of the order. 
I do not accept T212s argument that the 95% rule should be applied to reduce this balance 
capacity. As I said above, that rule did not apply at the point of execution of an order. T212 
has also argued that it would be illogical to expect that an order could be executed with 
insufficient funds in an account, hence the rationale behind applying the 95% rule at the 
point of execution. The first point to note is that this argument does not apply to Mr Cs case, 
because he had sufficient funds in his account. The second point to note is that this 
argument conflicts somewhat with the terms for the account which say it was possible for 
trade orders to be executed despite insufficient funds in an account and despite the creation 
of a negative account balance thereafter.
Putting things right
Fair compensation for Mr C is to put him back into the position he would have been in if the 
HC trade order had been executed as and when it should have been executed. I do not 
dismiss T212s argument about mitigation. However, I consider it of limited, if any, relevance. 
Mr Cs complaint is not about missing a price opportunity in the trade, it is about the 
cancellation of a trade that should have been executed. If the former was the case, there 
could be an argument that he ought to have mitigated any lost price opportunity by trading at 
the next best available price, but this is not relevant to the latter  whereby he seeks to have 
the trade order executed as it should have been executed and based on T212s concession 
that it could have been executed. Overall and on balance, I do not consider that T212s 
mitigation related argument should reduce compensation to Mr C.
To compensate Mr C fairly T212 must purchase 1,000 shares of HC for him and must sell 
them to him at the price of £2.75 per share  this being the price that applied to HC when his 
order could and should have been executed on 21 May  and at the total cost of £2,750.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and I order Trading 212 UK Limited 
to compensate him as directed to do above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman