DRN-1343706
The complaint
Mrs K complains that a car she acquired with finance from Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality because of an intermittent fault which resulted in 
the car breaking down.
What happened
In September 2016 Mrs K was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS.
In May 2019 Mrs K experienced an intermittent issue with the car losing power and the 
injector waring light illuminating. She contacted the supplying dealer who inspected the car 
but didnt carry out repairs because the diagnostic test showed no fault.
Mrs K says the fault got worse and ultimately the car broke down. By the time this happened, 
the car was out of warranty.
Mrs K complained to VWFS and asked to reject the car. In response, VWFS said there was 
no evidence that the car was faulty at the point of supply.
Mrs K remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think the fault was likely to have been 
a pint of supply fault because the car was fault free until May 2019, by which time it was 32 
months old and had covered around 34,000 miles.
Mrs K didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because VWFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such 
as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid.
Under the CRA 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a presumption that it 
was present at the point of supply. And its generally up to the business to put things right. 
After 6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the 
car had a fault at the point of supply. 
Mrs K said that she first experienced the fault around May 2019. This is more than 6 months 
after the point of supply so its up to Mrs K to show that the fault was present at the point of 
supply.
In order to be persuaded that the fault was present at the point of supply in circumstances 
like this, Id expect to see conclusive evidence such as (for example) an engineers report 
stating that the fault wouldve been present or developing at the point of supply. Mrs K hasnt 
provided any evidence like this. Further, looking at the length of time Mrs K had the car and 
the mileage covered before the issue arose, I dont think its likely that the fault couldve 
been present at the point of supply because it wouldve become apparent much sooner. 
Based on what Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence to persuade me that that fault was 
present at the point of supply. Because of this, Im unable to say that the car is of 
unsatisfactory quality and I wont be asking VWFS to do anything further.
I under stand Mrs Ks frustration that the fault wasnt repaired under warranty when she first 
reported it to the dealership. This isnt something Im able to look at in the context of this 
complaint, but Mrs K may wish to pursue this via The Motor Ombudsman.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman