DRN-4142520
The complaint
Mr C complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited wrongly cancelled his motor 
insurance policy and although the policy was reinstated it couldnt reinstate the telematics 
box.
What happened
Mr C took out a policy with Admiral that included a telematics box. Around two months later 
he received an email telling him the policy had been cancelled. He contacted Admiral, who 
said the policy had been cancelled in error and reinstated it, but it wasnt possible to 
reinstate the telematics box.
Mr C complained about the policy being cancelled and the consequences of not having the 
telematics box. While this service was considering the complaint, Admiral paid Mr C 
compensation of £350 - £250 for the loss of the telematics and £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him. 
Mr C didnt think £350 was enough. Our investigator said:
Admiral acted straightaway to put things right by reinstating the policy. 
The full extent of not being able to continue with the telematics box wasnt known but 
the compensation was a fair reflection of the impact.
Admiral was willing to consider the option of providing a new telematics policy and 
seeing what the cost would be but Mr C didnt wish to continue with Admiral. If the 
cost of renewal would be higher than it would have been if the telematics data was 
still available, Admiral should pay Mr C the difference.
Admiral replied, saying although it cant reactivate the box the data that was collected is still 
available. And it said the data shows Mr C had a low score and this would form part of the 
renewal price, if a renewal is offered.
The investigator said on this basis Mr C would not have obtained a discount on renewal and 
the price was more likely to increase. So she didnt think Mr C had lost out. She asked him if 
he was willing to accept the compensation offered.
In reply to the investigator, Mr C has made a number of comments, including:
He specifically took out a policy with a telematics box in order to improve his driving, 
which would lead to lower premiums when he came to renew the policy. Others 
would testify on how careful he was when driving, in order to increase his scores.
For the two months when he had the telematics box, his driving scores were either 
good or average, but when he checked in July (shortly before the policy was 
cancelled) these scores had disappeared.
The investigator had placed too much weight on the telematics data referred to by 
Admiral over a short period  which he didnt accept was accurate. 
Hes lost the opportunity to continue improving his scores and secure a better deal at 
renewal, which could have led to a discount of up to 60%. A payment of £500 would 
be a fairer reflection of what hes lost.
The stress caused by what happened, together with lengthy delays by Admiral in 
dealing with his complaint, has affected his health and the compensation of £100 
doesnt adequately reflect the impact on him over a lengthy period.
The investigator said she had weighed up all the evidence and was more persuaded by the 
data Admiral had collected than testimony from Mr C or others on his behalf about his 
driving. She thought the compensation offered was fair.
As no agreement has been reached I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy was cancelled in error. Although that should not have happened, Admiral dealt 
with it immediately when he contacted them and reinstated the policy, but his telematics box 
couldnt be reinstated. Admiral has offered compensation for that. The issue is whether that 
offer is enough to fairly reflect the impact on Mr C. He says he took out a policy with a 
telematics box specifically so he could measure and improve his driving, based on the 
recommendations received as a result of the data collected about his driving. If his scores 
were good enough, he could have got a got a lower premium at renewal  he says up to 
60%. Thats no longer possible.
So Mr C lost the opportunity to reduce his premiums. He considers a reasonable amount of 
compensation for this would be at least £500, based on a likely reduction of up to 50%. The 
difficulty here is in knowing what would have happened if he had kept the box. Admiral says 
the scores for the two months up to July were very low. Mr C disputes that and says he had 
either average or good scores. And he says he would have improved his driving, leading to 
higher scores, in light of the data.
While Mr C says his intention was to try and reduce the premium, theres no guarantee that 
would have happened. And the information Admiral has provided about his scores show 
these were low. I appreciate they were for a limited period and Mr C disputes the data. But 
Admiral has shown thats what was recorded, so it does carry some weight. Mr C says the 
view is based on the assumption he would have driven badly for the remaining ten months of 
the policy. I dont think thats the case. Its simply that we cant say what scores he would 
have achieved or what affect they would have had on any renewal. 
In his complaint Mr C said hed lost the opportunity to benefit, as there was no way of finding 
out what he might have achieved, and I would agree with that. The most I can say is that he 
lost the opportunity to continue with the telematics box for the rest of the policy period. It 
would be distressing to find its no longer possible to know what benefit he might have 
received from having the box. With regard to the overall distress caused to Mr C, the initial 
problem was put right the same day, when his policy was reinstated. No doubt it was 
frustrating to have to spend time addressing the issues with the loss of the telematics box 
and dealing with the complaint. Admiral hasnt dealt with things as quickly as it should have, 
and Mr C has explained the affect this has had on him. Taking all these factors into account I 
consider the £350 paid to Mr C a reasonable amount to compensate him.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman