DRN-4418018
The complaint
Miss D complains that Wise Payments Limited didnt do enough to protect her from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money 
once shed reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
 
Miss D was contacted on WhatsApp by someone who Ill refer to as the scammer who 
claimed for work for a company Ill refer to as G. The scammer told Miss D about an 
opportunity to make some extra income which would require her to complete tasks via Gs 
online platform.
Miss D believed the opportunity was genuine because the platform was professional looking 
and could be accessed by an app. G also had a social media presence, and she was sent 
letters of guarantee signed by the directors of the company which satisfied her the company 
was genuine. 
The scammer told Miss D that G was looking to increase the marketing exposure of certain 
products and she would receive 1-5% commission for each task according to the value of 
the product. She was told to complete a short training course and added to a WhatsApp 
group with other workers who shared their successes. 
The scammer told her to pay for each task by making payments via a cryptocurrency 
exchange company Ill refer to as B, before transferring it to Gs platform. Between 17 
November 2022 and 24 November 2022, she made fourteen card payments to B totalling 
$2,978 and £25,134.14 from her Wise account.
Miss D generated an income and felt motivated because the scheme was straightforward. 
She paid increasing amounts so she could finish tasks and withdraw her profit, but when she 
was unable to make a withdrawal, she contacted customer service and was told theyd help 
her out with money to cover the packages. Miss D told the scammer she could pay for more 
tasks once she received her student loan. But on 11 January 2023, she was removed from 
the WhatsApp group and when she tried to make a withdrawal, her account was empty.
Miss D contacted Wise to report the scam and to complain that it should have identified the 
payments as unusual and performed additional checks, which could have uncovered the 
scam and prevented her loss. 
But Wise refused to refund any of the money. It explained that payments are generally 
considered completed once the funds are loaded to the recipient account, regardless of what 
happens from there, so there would be no prospect of a successful chargeback request. It 
explained it is a Money Remittance Service and wouldnt be involved in disputes between 
senders and recipients as it cant control or monitor activities after a transaction has left its 
system. It said it had attempted to recall the money from B on 12 February 2023, but it didnt 
receive a response and there was little else it could do to because the payments were 3DS -
approved.
Miss D wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service with the assistance of a 
representative. The representative said Miss D hadnt previously invested in cryptocurrency 
and hadnt made many payments over £1,000, so the activity was unusual. They said she 
mainly used the account while on holiday and on 22 November 2022 she paid £2,580 and 
£5,000 to B, which should have raised concerns as the payee was a cryptocurrency 
merchant. 
They said Wise should have contacted Miss D to ask questions about the payments and had 
it done so, shed have told it the payments related to a job opportunity which shed learned 
about on WhatsApp. Wise could then have identified that a scam taking place and been able 
to advise Miss D about what was happening, and she wouldnt have lost any more money.
Wise has further commented that the obligation of ensuring the legitimacy of the recipient 
was Miss Ds and she was using her account in the normal way - i.e. funding the balance 
from her bank account, and then using that money to spend with her debit card. And even 
though she was moving money from her Wise account over a short period, B was a 
legitimate merchant, so it didnt believe the payments were unusual.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He accepted the first few payments 
were to a new payee which was a cryptocurrency merchant, but he didnt think they were 
high enough to have triggered a warning from Wise. But he thought it ought to have been 
concerned when Miss D made the payment of £5,000 on 22 November 2022. And he was 
satisfied that if Wise had contacted her and questioned her about the payments, it is likely 
shed have explained why she was making the payments. It could then have provided a 
scam warning which would have changed the outcome, so it should refund the money she 
lost from that point onwards.
However, he explained that although this was a sophisticated scam, it wasnt reasonable for 
Miss D to have thought this was a legitimate job as there wasnt a plausible reason to pay 
funds to an employer or for G to have offered to make payments on her behalf, so he 
thought the settlement should be reduced by 50% for contributory negligence.
W has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. It doesnt agree it should 
have intervened on 22 November 2022 arguing that before making the payment of £5,000 
Miss D had added £5,490 to the account from another account in her name suggesting she 
was preparing to send a higher amount. And she had made previous payments to B, so the 
payment wasnt out of character.
It has further explained that its customers may need to change spending behaviour and send 
large payments to new recipients, which what its product is designed for and how its used by 
its customers. It has said balances are often used to fund outbound payments and funds are 
not always left sitting in accounts as with traditional bank accounts. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im satisfied Miss D authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of her bank account, Miss D is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Theres no dispute that this was a scam, but although she didnt intend her money to go to 
scammers, she did authorise the disputed payments. Wise is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Wise could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the 
payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, Wise had 
an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, 
so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Miss D when she tried to 
make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect 
Wise to intervene with a view to protecting Miss D from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Wises systems. Ive considered the nature of the 
payments in the context of whether they should have triggered an intervention from Wise 
and I think they should. All the payments were to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange 
company, and the initial payments were for lower amounts, so it wasnt unreasonable that 
Wise didnt intervene. But on 22 November 2022, Miss D made a payment of £5,000 which 
should reasonably have triggered an intervention. 
This is because, even though this was a legitimate cryptocurrency merchant which Miss D 
had paid several times since 17 November 2022 and there were two payments totalling 
£5,490 into the account, £5,000 is a significant amount and ought to have raised concerns, 
particularly as there wasnt a history of larger payments on the account. So, I think Wise 
missed an opportunity to intervene.
Wise should have contacted Miss D to ask her about the purpose of the payment. And as 
theres no evidence shed been coached to lie, I think its likely shed have told it that she 
was making payments in respect of a job opportunity shed learned about via WhatsApp for 
which she expected to receive commission. 
With this information, I would expect Wise to have identified that the job had the hallmarks of 
a scam and to have discussed with her the nature of the checks shed undertaken and to 
give some advice on additional due diligence. I would also expect it to have warned Miss D 
that there were several red flags present including the fact shed been contacted on social 
media and required to make payments to a company in cryptocurrency. 
I havent seen any evidence that Miss D was keen to take risks with her money and so if 
Wise had warned her that this was probably a scam, I think its likely that shed have thought 
twice about making any more payments. Because of this, I think it missed an opportunity to 
intervene in circumstances where to do so might have prevented her loss. Consequently, I 
think it should refund the money she lost from 22 November 2022 onwards.
Contributory negligenceTheres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions and 
conduct suitable due diligence and these circumstances are such that I think Miss D should 
share some responsibility for her loss. 
Miss D was contacted on social media by someone claiming to be offering an opportunity to 
make money by completing tasks in return for commission. While this isnt necessarily 
alarming and I accept this was a sophisticated scam in that G appeared to have a website 
and a trading platform which was accessible via an app, Miss D ought to have questioned 
where the scammer got her details, why she was being asked to pay money to G using 
cryptocurrency and why she wasnt given any employment documentation such as a 
contract. 
So, I think the settlement should be reduced by 50% for contributory negligence.
My final decision
My final decision is that Wise Payments Limited should: 
refund £21,057.
this settlement should be reduced by 50% to reflect contributory negligence.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
If Wise Payments Limited deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it 
should provide Miss D with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman