DRN-3957207
The complaint
Mr M is complaining that Tesco Personal Finance PLC hasnt refunded an amount he paid 
on his Tesco credit card for a motorcycle tour. 
What happened
Mr M bought a motorcycle excursion to travel around America in April 2020. The excursion 
was arranged by a third-party provider  who I shall refer to as E. He paid around £6,751.67 
for the trip. He made three payments towards this using his Tesco credit cards. 
In March 2020 E contacted Mr M to confirm that, despite the restrictions owing to Covid-19, 
the excursion was still going ahead. Mr M contacted E to explain that he was unable to travel 
to America due to travel restrictions owing to Covid-19. E responded to say it would give him 
a travel voucher. Mr M said he wasnt able to use a voucher and asked for a refund. But E 
maintained it was only able to give him a voucher. So Mr M contacted Tesco and asked it to 
refund the amount he paid.
Tesco ultimately didnt uphold Mr Ms claim. Mr M is unhappy with the way Tesco handled 
the dispute. He said it initially told him that it was for E to show the excursion went ahead, 
but later said it for Mr M to show it didnt go ahead. Mr M says he provided sufficient 
evidence to show E cancelled the excursion, so he maintained that he was entitled to a 
refund. Tesco said, even if E had cancelled the excursion, he wasnt entitled to a refund as  
he cancelled the trip before E did so. And it said the terms of the contract didnt allow for a 
refund in these circumstances.
I issued an initial provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the following:
I should first set out that I acknowledge Ive summarised Mr Ms complaint in a lot less detail 
than he has presented it. Mr M has raised a number of reasons about why hes unhappy with 
the way Tesco has handled this matter. Ive not commented on each and every point hes  
raised but, instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key points I need to think 
about. I dont mean any discourtesy about this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of 
this service. I assure Mr M, however, that I have read and considered everything hes 
provided.
Mr M is complaining about the way Tesco handled a dispute over a payment he made to a 
third party for a motorcycle excursion. Where a consumer raises a dispute about 
transactions made on a credit card, the card provider can consider the dispute under two 
guises  chargeback and Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). I would 
expect the card provider to consider both avenues. Tesco has done so in this case. Ill 
consider both separately. 
Section 75
Mr M paid for the holiday in three instalments on his Tesco credit cards. Section 75 sets out 
that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Tesco is jointly liable for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  E. Im satisfied those circumstances apply 
here.
It seems to me that Mr M asked to cancel the excursion when E said it would still go ahead. 
Im satisfied that the content of the email E sent to Mr M sets out that it still intended to 
provide the excursion at the time Mr M cancelled the booking. However, Mr M believes hes 
entitled to a full refund as he was unable to travel and because the excursion ultimately 
didnt go ahead. He also believes the contract was frustrated which meant E was required to 
refund the full cost of the trip.
I note the investigator said the PTRs applied in this case which meant Mr M was entitled to a 
refund, but I dont agree. This booking was made through an American travel provider, it was 
paid in American currency and was to wholly take place in America. So American law is the 
relevant law in this case, so I dont agree the PTRs are relevant here. 
But, even if the PTRs applied, I dont think it changes the outcome. Ultimately, while I accept 
that it seems that E ultimately didnt provide the service, I cant ignore that Mr M cancelled 
the booking before the excursion was cancelled. Tesco is only liable for a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by E. Mr M cancelled the booking, so E was no longer required to 
provide a service after this. So the fact the excursion didnt subsequently go ahead doesnt 
equate to a breach of contract. The issue for me to decide is whether it was fair for Tesco to  
say Mr M wasnt entitled to a refund. The terms of the contract regarding this are the crux of 
the matter and they say:
A reservation may be cancelled up to 45 days prior to the pick-up date with no charge. 50% 
of the total booking will be applied towards the cancellation fee if the booking is cancelled 
between 44-31 days from the pickup time. 100% of the booking will be applied towards the 
cancellation fee if the booking is cancelled within 30 days from pickup time or if the customer 
does not show up. Refunds, if applicable, will be issued in a form of store credit that can be 
redeemed within 1 year from the date it was issued.
It's critical to note that the terms of the contract specify that any refund will be given in the 
form of store credit. Ultimately, E issued Mr M store credit for 100% of the cost of the 
excursion. Strictly speaking, Mr M cancelled the booking within 30 days of the pickup time, 
so he wasnt entitled to any refund. But, ultimately, E acted in line with the terms of the 
contract in providing store credit in the form of a travel voucher. So I cant say that the failure 
to provide a refund equated to a breach of contract.
Ive also thought about Mr Ms comments in regard to the contract being frustrated. A 
contract may be considered to be frustrated where unforeseen circumstances has made it 
impossible for it to be performed. In such circumstances the usual remedy is that the parties 
are released from their contractual obligations. The Competition and Markets Authority 
(CMA) gave guidance that the impact of Covid-19 may potentially result in a contract being 
considered frustrated where the supplier isnt able to fulfil all or a significant amount of the 
contract. In such circumstances E wouldnt be obliged to fulfil Mr Ms booking, and he should 
be restored to his original financial position by having his money back.
However it doesnt automatically follow that the contract between Mr M and E would be 
deemed to have been frustrated. The CMA guidance issued in August 2020 set out that as 
lockdown laws and the nature of the legal restrictions they impose change over time, the 
consequences for individual contracts may become less clear-cut and more fact-specific. 
Ultimately only a court can decide how the law applies. Ultimately only a court could decide 
whether a contract has been frustrated or not. However, the crucial point is that it needs to 
be the supplier who is unable to provide all or part of the service, or significantly changes the 
service it was contracted to provide.At the time Mr M cancelled the booking, E had expressly set out that it was still intending to 
fulfil its contractual responsibilities to provide the excursion. I appreciate Mr M was unable to  
travel, but this didnt prevent E from being able to fulfil the contract at that time. And this is 
the crux of the matter. With this in mind, I dont think its by any means certain that a court 
would rule that Mr M was entitled to a full refund. And I think its unlikely it would do so. 
However, of particular importance in respect to a Section 75 claim is that a frustrated 
contract isnt a contract thats been breached  its a remedy in law where a contract cant be 
fulfilled. Tesco is only liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation. So the law of 
frustration doesnt give grounds for a refund under Section 75. Ultimately, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Tesco to say that E hadnt breached the terms of the contract.
Chargeback
As Mr M paid for the holiday by card, there are certain circumstances in which Tesco might 
be able to recover his money through the chargeback process. In this instance, Tesco didnt  
pursue the claim because it didnt think there were grounds to do so. Ive thought about 
whether it was fair for Tesco to conclude as such.
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a dispute 
between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. The rules under 
which the chargeback can be pursued are strict and are set out by the individual card 
scheme provider.
In this instance Mr M cancelled the booking. At that time, E had set out that the service was 
available to use, but Mr M was unable to use it due local restrictions which meant he was 
unable to travel to America. I recognise Mr M felt he had no choice but to cancel, but this 
wasnt down to anything E did wrong. And, for all the same reasons I set out above, Im not 
persuaded that a chargeback would have been successful and I dont think there was 
anything to show he was entitled to a refund of the cost of the booking after he cancelled the 
contract. So I cant say it was unreasonable for Tesco to not process the chargeback. 
Finally, I acknowledge Mr M is unhappy with the way Tesco handled his claim. I recognise 
that it may have given him misleading information at the start  i.e. that it incorrectly said it 
was for E to show the excursion went ahead. But I dont think hes lost out because of 
anything Tesco did wrong. Tesco has offered Mr M £150 in compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience its handling of the claim has caused him. I think this is fair, so I dont 
think it needs to offer anything in addition to this. 
Mr M didnt accept my provisional decision and, in brief, for the following reasons:
He said he didnt cancel the holiday. He said the holiday didnt go ahead because of the 
global travel restrictions owing to Covid-19. He set out that America issued a travel ban 
for all, but essential travel. He said he couldnt have done anything differently in the 
circumstances. He also highlighted that California  where the trip was due to start  had 
issued a stay at home order at the time E said it still intended to provide the trip.
He said hes had legal advice that the holiday wasnt cancelled, but it was frustrated. And 
he maintains that hes entitled to a refund in these circumstances.
He disagreed with my comment that American law applied. He said E had a UK website 
which set out the prices in UK currency and had a UK phone number to contact 
customer  services, which is how he bought the holiday. He also said he learnt about E 
at a UK trade fair he visited. He maintained the PTRs applied to holidays marketed and 
sold in the UK.Following this, I issued a second provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the 
following:
Of particularly relevance to the points Mr M raised is whether the PTRs apply. Im now 
persuaded they do. The PTRs set out that these Regulations make provision in respect of 
package travel contracts and linked travel arrangements sold, or offered for sale, in the 
United Kingdom. Im persuaded by what Mr M has told us that E did market and sell the trip 
in the United Kingdom  as it was marketed on a UK website, it had a UK customer services 
phoneline and was portrayed at a UK travel fair. So, taking everything into account, I think 
the PTRs are relevant in this case.
The PTRs further set out:
Termination of the package travel contract by the traveller
7) Notwithstanding paragraphs (2) to (6), in the event of unavoidable and extraordinary 
circumstances occurring at the place of destination or its immediate vicinity and which 
significantly affect
a) the performance of the package, or
b) the carriage of passengers to the destination, the traveller may terminate the package 
travel contract before the start of the package without paying any termination fee.
8) Where the package travel contract is terminated under paragraph (7), the traveller is 
entitled to a full refund of any payments made for the package but is not entitled to 
additional compensation.
This essentially means that, where Mr M looks to cancel the contract due to an unavoidable 
and extraordinary circumstance in America, the PTRs imply a term into his contract with E 
that hes entitled to a full refund of any payments made. The key point here, however, is the 
issue has to be in relation to Es ability to provide the service  not whether Mr M was able to 
attend due to restrictions in the United Kingdom.
I think its widely accepted that Covid-19 was an unavoidable and extraordinary  
circumstance. Im satisfied it was Mr M who instigated the cancelation and he did so due to 
the impact of Covid-19. But, the issue for me to decide, given the language in the PTRs, is 
whether, at the point Mr M cancelled the trip, Covid-19 was, or was clearly likely to, have a 
significant impact on Es ability to provide the trip it had contracted to provide. 
I acknowledge E wrote to Mr M to say it was still planning on providing the trip, but Ive also 
thought about whether this was accurate  or at the very least misleading. I think its 
particularly important to note that at the time E wrote to Mr M to say it was still planning on 
operating the tour and he responded to request a refund, America had issued stay at home 
orders on over 20 states  including in California where the tour was due to start. So it 
seems to me that it was already apparent the tour wasnt able to go ahead  or at the very 
least without a significant alteration to it. I think the PTRs set out that Mr M was in his rights 
to cancel the packaged holiday as a result of this and, as I said above, the PTRs further set 
out that Mr M was entitled to a refund, as he had requested.
I think, therefore, that E breached an implied term of the contract in not providing him with a 
refund when Mr M asked for it. So it follows that I think Tesco is jointly liable for this breach 
of contract and I intend require it to refund this amount.
Given this, I intend to say that I think Tesco should put Mr M in the position hed be in if E 
had provided the refund when he requested it. So, I intend to say it should reconstruct the credit card as if a refund was given on 29 March 2020  when Mr M first asked for it. If after 
doing so, Mr M is out of pocket I also intend to say it should pay 8% simple interest on this 
from the date hes out of pocket until he gets it back.
Mr M responded to my provisional decision and said the following:
He maintains he didnt cancel the holiday and believes its Tesco whos lead the 
assertion he cancelled the holiday. And he doesnt believe E treated it as a cancellation, 
as it asked him if he wanted to book the trip for a different day.
He was happy I was awarding a full refund and 8% simple interest. But he says my 
decision doesnt take into consideration the emotional distress and anxiety, self-doubt 
and worry that he and his wife have been living under for the last three years. He also 
said it doesnt compensate him for the considerable amount of time and effort hes had to 
spend to resolve this matter. 
He highlighted that Tesco took long periods of time to respond to him and he doesnt 
believe Tesco acted with reasonable care and skill in line with the Consumer Rights Act 
2015.
Tesco said it didnt have anything further to add, other than it requested that Mr M 
relinquished his travel voucher.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything else to think about, I uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision.
I acknowledge this matter has caused Mr M a lot of distress and inconvenience in resolving 
this issue. But I also have to think about whos caused the underlying issue  i.e. is it E or 
Tesco? While I acknowledge that this matter has taken a long time to resolve, this ultimately 
stems from E not providing Mr M with a refund, as opposed to anything Tesco did wrong. 
Ive thought about whether Tesco is liable for this. I dont think it is.
Im looking here at what Tesco should be responsible for. As I said, Section 75 gives Mr M a 
like claim against Tesco if there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by E. 
So, I must give consideration to what losses Mr M would likely be able to recover in court 
against E when considering what the like claim might look like. Im mindful when doing this 
that courts dont typically tend to make awards for non-financial losses such as distress and 
inconvenience for breach of contract apart from in limited circumstances (which I dont think 
would be likely to apply here). So I dont think Tesco is liable for any distress and 
inconvenience E has caused.
I acknowledge Mr M is unhappy that Tesco delayed responding to him. But these were 
unprecedented times and businesses were having to adapt to new ways of working, coupled 
with significant high levels of claims arising from Covid-19. Im not persuaded Tesco handled 
the claim in a wholly unreasonable way. So I dont think I can fairly require Tesco to 
compensate Mr M for any delays that arose at that time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to put Mr M in the position hed be in if E had provided 
the refund when he requested it. So, it should reconstruct the credit card as if a refund was given on 29 March 2020  when Mr M first asked for it. If after doing so, Mr M is out of 
pocket it should pay 8% simple interest on this from the date hes out of pocket until he gets 
it back.
If Tesco thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
simple interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman