DRN-1076497
 
The complaint
Mr R complains on behalf of a limited company, which I will call F, that The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc unreasonably refused his application for a business loan.
What happened
Mr R is one of the directors of F, and he brings this complaint on Fs behalf, with the consent 
of the other director. In August 2018 he applied to RBS for a business loan on behalf of 
another business, a partnership in which the two directors of F were the partners, to fund the 
purchase of their business premises. During correspondence in August and September, 
RBS agreed to the loan in principle, and asked a few questions about the business. But in 
February 2019, the partners incorporated F, and then Mr R asked for the loan to be made to 
F instead of to the partnership. Since F would be a new customer, and would have to have a 
new current account, RBS carried out further checks on the new company. In the course of 
doing this, Mr R told RBS that he might use a third party money transfer service in the 
course of Fs business. As a result, RBS changed its mind about lending to F, and in April it 
told Mr R that the loan had been declined.
Mr R complained to RBS, and then to our Service. RBS said its anti-money laundering 
policies meant it was not willing to open business accounts for businesses which use money 
transfer services, and without an account it couldnt lend to F. Mr R said that F didnt have to 
use a money transfer service  he had only said he was thinking of doing so  and he was 
willing to sign a written undertaking that F would not do so. He said this could all have been 
avoided if RBS had told him that this was prohibited in the first place. He complained that 
withdrawing the loan offer at the last minute had caused him significant financial loss and 
great stress, as hed had to obtain a more expensive loan from another lender. He said that 
RBS was behaving unreasonably. He also complained about how long the whole process 
had taken before the loan application was declined.
RBS said that despite Mr Rs undertaking, it was still unwilling to take the risk. Our 
investigator thought that this was a commercial decision which RBS was entitled to make. 
She said some of the delay had been caused by Mr R asking to change the identity of the 
applicant from the partnership to the company. The rest of the delay had been the result of 
RBS asking reasonable questions about the partnership. RBS had not been obliged to 
publicise its anti-money laundering measures, or its criteria for opening a business account 
or for lending. So she did not uphold this complaint.
Mr R asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said that other lenders would not have 
declined a loan application in the same circumstances. He pointed out that if he broke his 
promise not to use a money transfer service, RBS would immediately notice and would then 
be able to close Fs account and terminate the loan agreement, and so RBS could rely on 
him to keep his word. He had asked to go back to making the loan application in the name of 
the partnership instead of F, and it was unreasonable of RBS to refuse.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considerable sympathy for Mr Rs situation, which must certainly have been difficult 
and stressful. I appreciate the reasons why RBSs stance seems harsh and stubborn to him 
 he has after all proposed two different solutions to the problem, and RBS has rejected both 
of them. But ultimately it is for RBS to decide how strictly to apply its anti-money laundering 
policy, and how much risk it is prepared to accept. RBS doesnt have to do what other 
lenders would do in the same position  and if it did, it would probably charge higher interest 
rates to reflect that risk, just like the other lender Mr R turned to. So even if I did order RBS 
to lend to either of Mr Rs businesses, its still unlikely that he would get the interest rate he 
had originally expected.
However, I dont think it would be right for me to order RBS to open a business account for F 
and to lend to it  or, alternatively, to lend to Mr Rs other business instead. If I did, it would 
be RBS that would bear the risk of doing so, and for that reason the Financial Ombudsman 
Service allows substantial latitude to lenders in this sort of situation, particularly when anti-
money laundering regulations are involved. I think RBSs response was within the 
reasonable range of its commercial discretion, and so I wont interfere with its decision, or 
conclude that it made an error.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman