DRN-3715881
The complaint
K complains about the difficulties it experienced when it tried to update its direct debit details 
with New Wave Capital Limited trading as Capital On Tap (Capital On Tap).
K is represented by one of its directors, Mr K.
What happened
Mr K contacted Capital On Tap in July 2022 to update the direct debit details on Ks account 
as K had switched banks. 
Mr K was unsuccessful in passing the security process so the representative of Capital On 
Tap said they would call Mr K back within a few minutes to try again. As nobody called back, 
Mr K called Capital On Tap again. He explained that he was having difficulty updating the 
direct debit details for K both online and by phone. Capital On Taps representative 
attempted to take him through the security process however Mr K couldnt provide the 
answer to one of the questions he was asked.
It was explained to Mr K that the call couldnt progress without this information. Mr K asked 
to raise a complaint as he was unhappy with the process and he believed there was an issue 
with Capital On Taps portal and website. He also asked for a gesture of goodwill to be paid 
to him for the inconvenience the matter had caused. 
Capital On Tap responded to the complaint explaining that the request to update the details 
needed to be done over the phone, so Mr K wouldve never been able to complete it online. 
They paid £15 to K in recognition of the call that was never returned to Mr K.
Mr K was unhappy with this response, so he brought Ks complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter and explained that he didnt think Capital On Tap were at 
fault. 
He said Capital On Tap had safeguarding processes they needed to adhere to and that they 
hadnt prevented K from making the changes, but they did require K to provide the requested 
information in order to progress with the changes to the account. Our investigator didnt think 
the information requested was unreasonable and therefore said Capital On Tap hadnt 
treated K unfairly. 
Mr K asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint, so the case was passed to me to 
decide. To resolve the matter, Mr K would like Ks details updated, an apology and a gesture 
of goodwill from Capital On Tap.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while Im sorry to disappoint Mr K as I can see he feels very strongly 
about this issue, I dont think Capital On Tap have done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr K is unhappy with Capital On Taps processes - 
particularly in relation to changing Ks direct debit details. Ill start by explaining that my role 
is not to ask a business to alter its procedures or security processes but to decide whether 
they, in this instance Capital On Tap, did anything wrong or treated the complainant (K) 
unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Having listened to all of the calls between Mr K and Capital On Tap, I can see that on the 
relevant occasions Mr K has been told what he needs to provide in order for the changes to 
Ks account to be made. The requested information is part of Capital On Taps standard 
security questions for this type of change and each time the different representative of 
Capital On Tap attempts to assist Mr K by explaining exactly where he might find the 
required details to enable him to pass their security successfully. 
When Mr K complains about the relevance of providing the requested information, the 
representative explains that this is a security requirement and it is there to protect K more 
than anything else. From what I have heard, the representatives were helpful and 
understanding and did their best to explain the process and requirements to Mr K.
Ive also reviewed Capital On Taps final response to K and Ive seen that it clearly sets out 
that the change to the direct debit is not something that can be completed independently 
through the customers portal and that a phone call is always required for this type of 
change. Im satisfied that this is Capital On Taps normal process and they were not 
requesting K do anything additional or unreasonable for this change to be made.
Ive also not seen any evidence to show there was any issue with Capital On Taps website 
or portal and I understand that the reason Mr K was having issues with the portal was 
because this change required a phone call and was not possible to do online.
I understand that Mr K has found this process to be frustrating and that he would like Capital 
On Tap to change their process. However, this is not something I am able to ask them to do. 
Capital On Tap have security processes in place to ensure they protect their customers, 
themselves and to ensure they abide by their regulatory requirements. 
Having reviewed what happened in this case, Ive not found that Capital On Tap have 
treated K unfairly and I dont think it was unreasonable for them to request the information 
they did before they would make the required changes to Ks account. 
The one error that I believe Capital On Tap did make was not calling Mr K back at the 
agreed time. Capital On Tap have already made a payment to K as a gesture of goodwill for 
this error so there is no need for me to comment any further on this aspect of the complaint.
I therefore wont be asking Capital On Tap to take any further action. In order to progress the 
matter with Capital On Tap, Mr K will need to confirm the details requested by Capital On 
Tap and answer any other security questions that are requested of him as part of the 
process when he calls them to make the change to the account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Tara RichardsonOmbudsman