DRN-3125044
The complaint
Ms N is unhappy with the interest rate CarCashPoint Limited (CCP) are charging on two 
fixed sum loan agreements she took out with them.
What happened
On 16 April 2019, Ms N took out a £3,600 logbook loan (a fixed sum loan agreement 
secured against a car) with CCP. The loan was over 156 weeks, with weekly repayments of 
£69.05. On 10 September 2019, Ms N took out a second logbook loan with CCP, for £560. 
This loan was also over 156 weeks, with weekly repayments of £16.52.
In 2021, Ms N complained to CCP about the interest rates on these loans, and about how 
much she still owed. But CCP said all the terms of the loans were explained to her before 
she entered into the agreements. They also provided her with a breakdown of the 
outstanding loan amounts to show how these had been calculated.  
Ms N wasnt happy with this response, and she brought her complaint to us for investigation. 
She also said that she never applied for the second loan and thinks the paperwork mayve 
been signed fraudulently.
Our investigator said hed seen both agreements, and they both have the same signature. 
Whats more, the bank account details where the loan was to be paid is the same on both 
applications. And Ms N didnt raise any issues that shed not applied for the second loan 
when she complained to CCP about the interest rate in 2021. Given this, he said he was 
persuaded that Ms N applied for both loans. And the documentation for both loans were 
clear in what the terms of the loans were  including the interest rate.
The investigator also said that Ms N had explained she was experiencing financial 
difficulties, and this caused the car to be repossessed by CCP in June 2021. He said that, 
under the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines (CONC 7.3.4) it says that a firm 
must treat customers with financial difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. 
The investigator said hed seen that Ms N had missed a significant number of repayments, 
and CCP had granted her 10-months of payment deferrals. Theyd also asked her to provide 
copies of her bank statements, and complete an income and expenditure form, to ensure the 
loans remained affordable, without affecting her ability to pay her priority bills. But Ms N 
hadnt provided CCP with this information before the car was repossessed. 
So, taking all of this into consideration, the investigator didnt think that CCP had acted 
unfairly, and he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Ms N didnt agree with the investigator and she asked for her case to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Ms N was supplied with two fixed sum loan 
agreements by CCP. These are regulated consumer credit agreements which means were 
able to look into complaints about them.
Ive seen a copy of the first loan agreement. This clearly states the loan amount (£3,060), 
the number and amount of repayments (156 weekly repayments of £69.05), the interest rate 
(84.00% flat rate fixed per annum, 206.65% APR), and the total amount repayable 
(£10,771.80). This also gave Ms N the right to withdraw from the agreement, within the first 
14-days, for any reason. This paperwork was signed on 16 April 2019.
Ive also seen a copy of the second loan agreement. This clearly states the loan amount 
(£560), the number and amount of repayments (156 weekly repayments of £16.52), the 
interest rate (120.00% flat rate fixed per annum, 345.94% APR), and the total amount 
repayable (£2,577.12). This also gave Ms N the right to withdraw from the agreement, within 
the first 14-days, for any reason. This paperwork was signed on 10 September 2019.
Ms N doesnt dispute applying for, or signing the paperwork for, the first loan. But she says 
she didnt apply for, or sign the paperwork for, the second loan. Ms N is claiming that the 
second loan was fraudulently taken out.
Ive compared the signatures on both sets of documentation. And theyre sufficiently similar 
for me to be satisfied they were signed by the same person. All of the personal details on 
both agreements are the same, as is the details of the car being put up for security. 
Additionally, Ms N hasnt complained about receiving loans she didnt apply for. Nor, when 
she initially raised her complaint with CCP about the interest rate on the loans, did she raise 
the issue that shed not applied for the second loan.
Given the above, Im satisfied that Ms N applied for, and received the benefit of, both loans.
Im also satisfied that the terms of both loans were clear in the agreements. And, if Ms N 
wasnt happy with any of the terms (including the interest rates), then she had the choice to 
either not go through with the applications, or to cancel the loans and return the money she 
borrowed within the first 14-days. And by not doing so, its reasonable to assume that Ms N 
accepted all the terms of the loans at the time.
With regards to the interest rates themselves, its not my role to tell a financial business what 
interest rate they can charge. This is something they would do in agreement with their 
regulator  the FCA. So, while Ms N thinks the interest rates were too high, this isnt 
something Im going to specifically comment on.
Its not disputed that Ms N had financial difficulties and struggled to repay the loans to CCP. 
Under the rules set down by the FCA, a firm must treat customers in default or in arrears 
difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. 
Ive seen that CCP provided Ms N with payment deferrals in 2020. And, when she couldnt 
resume full payments after this period, they asked her for details of her income and 
expenditure so they could arrange a suitable repayment plan. But Ms N didnt provide this. Ive also seen that, during the first part of 2021, CCP told Ms N that if she didnt provide the 
information theyd asked for, or contact them about her arrears, then theyd follow their 
collection procedure. Which they eventually did when Ms N didnt respond to these requests, 
and it resulted in the repossession of the car.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that CCP treated Ms N with forbearance and due 
consideration when dealing with her arrears. And Im satisfied they acted reasonably when 
they repossessed the car after Ms N failed to arrange a suitable repayment plan with them. 
So, I wont be asking CCP to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Ms Ns complaint about CarCashPoint Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman