DRN-3804750
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) requested further 
income details in regard to paying an income protection claim.
Ms H is being represented by Mr H on this complaint. 
What happened
Ms H has an income protection policy taken out through a broker in March 1995. The policy 
is underwritten by LV.
Since 2009, LV has been paying a claim to Ms H as she was unable to work. More recently, 
LV reviewed the claim and requested further details of Ms Hs income because it had noticed 
she was a director of two companies. It wanted to ascertain what income Ms H was 
receiving from the companies as the benefit being paid may be impacted. 
Unhappy with LVs request for this information, Ms H made a complaint. She said LV had 
agreed to pay the claim from an agreement that was reached in 2009 (when it was found 
that the policy was mis-sold). Ms H said she hadnt been asked for this information since 
2009. 
LV said it wasnt responsible for any issues relating to the mis-sale, they would need to be 
directed to the broker. LV said it was entitled to carry out a review of the claim and as such 
request the financial information. Ms H disagreed and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She didnt uphold it and concluded that LVs 
requests for information werent unreasonable. She said LV could have managed Ms Hs 
expectations better by requesting this information sooner but regardless, LV has continued 
to pay the claim since 2009. She said LV is entitled to request this information and this was 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Ms H disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly.
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of the policy as this forms the basis of Ms 
Hs contract with LV. 
On page 2 of the policy booklet, under Section 5 Claims for Income Protection Benefit it 
says:
The payment of claims will be subject to:
(a) completion of a claim form supplied by the Company and a certificate from the 
registered medical practitioner in charge of the case
(b) declarations signed by the Insured and reports from the registered medical 
practitioner in charge of the case being sent to the Company at such intervals as 
required throughout the period of a claim
(c) the Insured undergoing medical examination by a Medical Officer appointed by 
the Company if required 
(d) the production of such other evidence as the Company may require.
Excepting reports required under (c) above and except as the Company may agree, 
the Policyholder will be responsible for the cost of all certificates and reports that the 
Insured is required to submit to the Company.
If the Policyholder or the Insured fails to comply with the requirements of this 
condition the Company will have the power to withhold or suspend payment of 
income protection benefit.
Under Section 7 Maximum Benefit
The maximum income protection benefit payable under this Policy is the weekly 
equivalent of the following proportion of the Insured's income prior to incapacity:
75% of the first £45,000 plus
50% of the balance 
(or such higher amounts as the Company may from time to time determine),
Less:
(a) the weekly equivalent of benefit secured by all other sickness and accident 
insurances on the life of the Insured and
(b) State benefits to which the Insured is entitled (but excluding any amounts relating 
to dependants) and
(c) the weekly equivalent of all ill-health or retirement pension benefits from any 
source and
(d) the weekly equivalent of any income arising from the Insured's ordinary 
occupation.
So, based on the above, LV is entitled to ask for financial information from Ms H bearing in 
mind that shes a director of two companies. This is so it can calculate the maximum benefit 
available to Ms H under her policy. Its not unreasonable that LV would want to see her 
financial information and its not unreasonable to ask for this information. 
I appreciate the concern Ms H and her representative have given previous claim 
assessments carried out, and that they thought the claim would always be paid. They say it 
was agreed in 2009 the claim would always be paid and LV had never asked for financial 
information before. I cant see any evidence that points to LV paying the claim for an 
indefinite period or continuing to pay the claim without asking for any information, including 
financial. Looking at the terms and conditions of the policy, even though LV hasnt previously 
asked for this information, it doesnt mean that it cant do so now. The claim has been paid 
since 2009 and its only recently that LV has requested this information. It could have asked for this sooner bearing in mind its entitled to do this at any point. I do understand Ms Hs 
concerns, but I cant ask LV not to seek further financial information to ascertain the 
maximum benefit payable under Ms Hs policy. 
I note that LV has stopped paying the benefit until such time that Ms H provides the 
requested financial information. This is not unusual in claims such as this. The crux of the 
complaint is that LV has asked for financial information and Ms H doesnt believe thats fair. 
Im afraid I dont agree as LV is entitled to do this. Albeit, LV could have done this sooner, 
but that means that this has only been to Ms Hs advantage up until now.  
Overall, taking everything into account, Im satisfied LV is requesting financial information 
thats in line with Ms Hs policy terms and conditions. Im not persuaded that LV has treated 
Ms H unfairly or unreasonably and its actions in asking for this information is in line with what 
would be expected in assessing and reviewing the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint against Liverpool Victoria 
Financial Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman