DRN-3652352
The complaint
Miss L complains that ACI-UK Limited (ACI) has caused her significant distress as they  
harassed  her to pay for a debt she did not owe. 
What happened
Miss L had her bank card stolen towards the end of 2017. Following this she said her identity 
was used and a number of fraudulent activities happened, including a pay day loan being 
taken out in her name. For the purpose of this decision, Ill call the payday lender B.
Miss L says she reported the matter to the police. She also says both the police and her 
bank told her to ignore any contact to do with the fraudulent activity.
As the loan wasnt paid back, on 27 August 2018, B sold the account on to another 
company, that Ill call P. P appointed ACI to manage the account for it. 
ACI tried to contact Miss L initially using a phone number and address that B had provided to 
P. But in October 2018 they were contacted by the resident, of the address they had written 
to, and they explained that Miss L didnt live there.
So, they began to email Miss L at her current email address, Miss L never responded to any 
of the emails, nor did she contact ACI in any other way.
In June 2022, ACI carried out a trace through an external company and became aware of 
Miss Ls current address. They wrote to her asking her to contact them.
Soon after this letter Miss L contacted this service. She said ACI had been causing her a 
significant amount of distress with their email chasing and that this had now progressed to 
writing to her home address. She was worried about how they had gotten her address. Miss 
L suffers from a number of health issues, and she says that ACIs actions have made these 
worse.
As no complaint had been made to ACI, this service contacted ACI to let them know about 
Miss Ls complaint. ACI investigated and following Miss L providing some further evidence 
they arranged for the account to be closed and the debt to be written off. 
Miss L still wanted ACIs actions to be investigated by this service. Our investigator looked 
into it but didnt feel this was a complaint that should be upheld, in summary he said:
ACI had been unaware of Miss Ls claims that the loan had been taken out 
fraudulently, as she had never told them and so they had been within their rights to 
contact her about arranging payment.
ACI hadnt been aware of any of Miss Ls health conditions and so we couldnt have 
expected them to make an allowance for them in its contact.
Once ACI had been made aware of the fraud theu had acted as we would expect 
them to and arranged for the debt to be written off and for the account to be and 
closed.
ACI are not the owner of the debt, they just administer it on behalf of P (the debt 
owner). But P wasnt the original lender, that was B and so if Miss L wants to 
complain about the account being opened fraudulently, she would need to complain 
to B. And, although B is no longer in business, the administrators are still dealing with 
complaints.
Miss L disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have to tell Miss L that I have reached the same outcome as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons, Ill explain why below. 
Before I do though Id like to let Miss L know that I understand how strongly she feels about 
this, and I am aware of the distress this situation has caused her. And would strongly 
recommend that she seeks the help she needs to deal with this disappointment.
As the original lender B is responsible for the selling of the loan and the checks that were 
carried out before granting it. B has had administrators appointed and as such is no longer 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and so this service cant look at its actions. 
However, if Miss L wants this part of her complaint investigated, she can contact the 
administrators of B, who are still accepting complaints, in the way the investigator advised 
her. My decision will only be focussing on ACIs actions from 27 August 2018 as thats the 
date B sold the loan to P and it appointed ACI.
Once P asked ACI to act for it in collecting the debt owed on the account, it had what it 
thought was a legitimate reason for contacting Miss L. At that point it had no way of knowing 
Miss L had been the victim of Fraud. Miss L never responded to ACI following any of the 
contact attempts, nor has she done anything to let them know that the account was opened 
fraudulently. I appreciate that she has said she was told by the police and her bank to ignore 
any chasers, but I dont think that its reasonable to expect ACI to know something was 
wrong with the account if she didnt tell it. Had they known, I would have expected them to 
act differently and look into matters, which Im satisfied it would have based on how it did act 
once it was told.
Even so, I have looked at if ACIs contact with Miss L was unreasonable, but I cant say that 
it was. I say that because I have seen that when ACI was appointed to manage the account 
it initially tried to contact Miss L a handful of times by text and phone. It then sent one letter 
to an address that Miss L no longer resided at before switching to email contact only from 
October 2018.
ACI has provided contact logs to show when it has tried to make contact with Miss L. I can 
see from this  they emailed her on a semi regular basis since October 2018, asking her to 
get in contact to discuss the account. Some months this has been several emails and other 
months none at all. The content of the emails was to ask Miss L to make contact with them. 
Following them conducting a trace with an external company ACI wrote to Miss L at her 
home address once. Based on what Ive seen, I dont think the emails were so frequent that I 
would consider them inappropriate or harassing. And there was only the one letter which 
prompted Miss L to contact us, once we let ACI know the situation they stopped trying to contact Miss L and dealt with the issue of the account being opened fraudulently. Because of 
this I cant fairly say ACI has done anything wrong here.
I understand Miss Ls strength of feeling about this case and know she will be disappointed 
with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with ACI  
can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman