DRN-3246337
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs Ks complaint is about the advice they received to take out a lifetime mortgage 
in 2015. They consider the mortgage was mis-sold because, in their view, their financial 
circumstances werent properly assessed, the mortgage wasnt suitable for them and they 
didnt need the money released by the mortgage.  The advice was given to them by 
Age Partnership Limited.
Mr J and Mrs K are represented in their complaint. For simplicity, I will refer to all comments 
made by the representative as having been made by Mr J and Mrs K.
What happened
In February 2015 Mr J filled in an enquiry on Age Partnerships website. Following this 
Age Partnership contacted him to gather some information about his and Mrs Ks 
circumstances and what they wanted. Mr J said that they were thinking of paying off their 
mortgage and releasing some money to buy a replacement car. At the time Mrs K was 
retired and receiving both state and a small occupational pension. Mr J was semi-retired and 
the following autumn he was due to receive an income from occupational pensions 
(including a tax-free lump sum) and his state pension. They needed slightly less than 
£20,000 to repay their existing repayment mortgage, which was payable beyond Mr Js 
retirement date the following year. The also estimated wanting £6,000 for a replacement car. 
The adviser discussed the idea of taking the amount of money that they needed for those 
purposes from the equity in their home, and having a reserve they could draw on if they 
wanted further funds. Mr J and Mrs K wanted to take the maximum they could from the 
property. They explained that there were things around the house that would need doing, 
such as a new boiler and some new windows, and the rest would be used to enhance their 
quality of life. There was a discussion about their estates and the inheritance for their 
children. They said they werent worried about that and that the children supported them 
enjoying the value of the house, given theyd worked hard for it. Age Partnership highlighted 
that the more they took out of the house the less of the property value would be left to their 
estate at the end. It was agreed that the adviser would quote for the maximum equity 
release, given Mr J and Mrs K werent worried about the size of their estate. 
Alternative options to pay for the things Mr J and Mrs K wanted were discussed. This 
included existing savings and Mr J made it clear that they could afford to pay the mortgage 
off with their savings, but said that to do that, theyd be left with nothing. They wanted to use 
their savings for living on and supporting their lifestyle. Other options, such as downsizing, 
werent of interest to Mr J and Mrs K. They said that they wanted to arrange the equity 
release at that time, so that it was all set up before Mr Js pensions started the following 
year.
Age Partnership sent Mr J and Mrs K information about the lifetime mortgage it would 
recommend to them. A couple of days later, Mr J called Age Partnership and told it that 
theyd thought about it and wanted to leave arranging the equity release until the following 
October. He had decided to use his pension lump sum to repay the mortgage. They would 
then apply for the equity release and would have the freedom to do better things with it. 
Mr J confirmed that they would definitely be going through with releasing equity from their 
home, but wanted to wait until he had retired fully. He asked that Age Partnership diarise 
contacting them in October 2016.
However, having said that they didnt want to proceed until the following October, Mr J sent 
in a further internet enquiry in April 2015. Further discussions resulted and the adviser ran 
through the information about Mr J and Mrs Ks needs and circumstances shed been given 
in the February, to ensure that nothing had changed. It hadnt. The explanation Mr J gave to 
Age Partnership for contacting it again was because hed now retired and had been thinking 
about their finances. Hed realised that by the following October theyd have used-up all of 
their savings to live on. The adviser reassessed her advice and issued Mr J and Mrs K with a 
new recommendation. Details were sent to them for consideration. 
The following week Mr J spoke to Age Partnership and again confirmed that he and Mrs K 
had decided not to go ahead with the mortgage until Mr J reached 65.
In July 2015 Mr J contacted Age Partnership again. He said that he was in a bit of a 
quandary, as although he and Mrs K had decided they were definitely going to take out a 
lifetime mortgage, they were unsure about when to do it. The same adviser who had dealt 
with them in both February and April 2015 spoke to Mr J again. There were discussions 
about the interest rates available on lifetime mortgages  that they were quite static, but it 
was thought that rates would rise in the future. It was also explained that the older Mr J was 
when the mortgage was taken out, the more that theyd be able to borrow. Mr J agreed with 
the adviser that interest rates were likely to go up in the future and he concluded that the 
increase in the amount that could be borrowed would balance out if the interest rate was 
higher the following year. After checking the information about Mr J and Mrs Ks 
circumstances hadnt changed, it was agreed that the adviser would update her 
recommendation and send them information about the mortgage for them to consider. 
The advisers recommendation report detailed that Mr J and Mrs K wanted to release equity 
to repay their mortgage, buy a new car, do some home improvements and improve their 
lifestyle, including paying for holidays. She documented that as they didnt have plans for all 
of the money right away, she has discussed with them the possibility of having a smaller 
initial amount for what they actually needed, and a facility to draw more in the future when it 
was required. However, this suggestion had been rejected as Mr J and Mrs K wanted to take 
the full amount available from the outset to allow them to plan ahead and spend whenever 
they saw fit. 
A further conversation was had in August 2015 before the mortgage application was 
submitted. Mr J and Mrs K were still not entirely certain that they wanted to go ahead at that 
time or whether to wait for another year. The adviser suggested that, as the valuation was 
free, the application be made so Mr J and Mrs K could see what the lender would actually 
offer then. She confirmed that if they didnt like what was on offer, they could pull out of the 
application. All they had to do was to let her know thats what they wanted to do.
The application was submitted in early August 2015 and the property was valued. The 
valuation came back as the house being worth less than Mr J and Mrs K had thought it was. 
As such, the lender was only willing to offer an advance of £36,800. This was later increased 
to £37,950.
Mr J and Mrs K met with a solicitor to discuss the mortgage and to ensure they understood 
the contract and the consequences of taking it out. They accepted the mortgage offer after 
that meeting. The mortgage was advanced in September 2015. When the advance was made, Mr J and Mrs Ks existing mortgage was repaid from the 
advance, along with the costs associated with the mortgage. Just over £17,000 was paid into 
Mr J and Mrs Ks joint current account. From that money, £8,000 was transferred into an 
account in Mr Js name and £6,000 into an account in Mrs Ks name. The remainder seems 
to have remained in the joint current account and been dissipated on normal outgoings. 
In 2020 Mr J and Mrs K complained about the advice they had been given in 2015. They 
said that at the time of the advice Mr J was retiring in 17 months time and would receive a 
tax-free lump sum of £23,000, which was more than enough to pay the existing mortgage 
off. They said that they didnt think their pension income was taken into account when the 
assessment of their circumstances was made. They said if theyd been told they could have 
repaid the mortgage from Mr Js pension lump sum, they wouldnt have taken out the lifetime 
mortgage.
Age Partnership responded to the complaint. It set out what had happened and what Mr J 
and Mrs K had said their priorities were during the various discussions that took place. 
Age Partnership was satisfied the advice it had given was suitable for Mr J and Mrs Ks 
needs and circumstances. 
Mr J and Mrs K werent happy with Age Partnerships response and asked us to consider 
their complaint. One of our investigators did so, but he didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. 
Mr J and Mrs K didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They reiterated the reasons they 
believed the mortgage had been mis-sold and what it considered were the poor practices of 
Age Partnership. Our investigator considered the further comments, but he didnt change his 
mind. As such, Mr J and Mrs K asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for 
decision.
Subsequently, Mr J and Mrs K were asked to provide more information about the mortgage 
advance and what it had been used for. They were also asked to provide information about 
what had happened to the pension lump sum. They provided a partial trail for the money 
from the mortgage and a full one for the money from the pension lump sum. 
The evidence shows that the existing mortgage was paid off when the lifetime mortgage was 
advanced, and Mr J and Mrs K moved £14,000 of the remaining monies into separate 
accounts in their individual names. It is unclear where the money went after that, but the 
account in Mr Js name into which £8,000 was placed no longer existed by 2020. No record 
for the account in Mrs Ks name has been provided, so it is unclear what happened to that 
money or if it was still retained in 2020 when the complaint was made. The remainder of the 
advance appears to have been left in their joint current account and dissipated on normal 
outgoings. 
£20,000 of the pension lump sum was invested into a bond in Mr Js name. This was then 
moved through other savings arrangements and in 2020 appeared to be in a cash ISA 
arrangement. £2,000 was transferred into an account in Mrs Ks name, but no further 
information was provided about what happened to it. The remainder of the pension lump 
sum remained in the joint current account and appears to have again been used for general 
expenses.
Mr J and Mrs K pointed out that the evidence they have provided about accounts with their 
current account provider showed that before the mortgage advance they had around 
£25,000 between them in savings. They have also provided evidence that in 2020 Mr J held 
just over £52,000 in an ISA, of which they evidenced that £20,000 came from the pension lump sum. It was also evidenced that Mr J held various accounts with several providers at 
different times. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J and Mrs K have said that had the possibility of paying the mortgage off using Mr Js 
pension lump sum been discussed, that is the option they would have gone for, and they 
wouldnt have taken the mortgage. Recollections at a distance in time can sometimes be 
unreliable and having listened to all of the telephone calls Mr J had with Age Partnership, I 
am satisfied that Mr J and Mrs K were aware of this option. Indeed, they informed 
Age Partnership in February 2015 that theyd decided not to go ahead with the lifetime 
mortgage at that time and were planning to pay the existing mortgage off using Mr Js 
pension lump sum. They would then look to release equity from their home. As such, I cant 
find that Mr J and Mrs K werent aware of the option to repay their mortgage using his 
pension lump sum when he reached this scheme retirement age or that they would have 
taken this option rather than arranging the mortgage.  
Having listened to the discussions between Mr J and Age Partnership, I am satisfied that he 
and Mrs K had discussed the idea of a lifetime mortgage and that they had a good 
understanding of how they worked before Mr J first contacted Age Partnership. This 
understanding was correct, and it was reinforced by the information the adviser provided to 
him both orally and in writing along with her three sets of recommendations. 
At the point of the initial discussions with Age Partnership Mr J and Mrs K had savings 
sufficient to repay their mortgage. This option was discussed, and Mr J said that they didnt 
want to use their savings for that purpose as it would leave them without available funds to 
live on until Mr Js pensions kicked in. So they needed to look at alternatives to repay it. 
Other options to the raise the money were discussed, but Mr J and Mrs K werent interested 
in any of them. They initially decided to use Mr Js pension lump sum to repay the mortgage, 
but then appear to have changed their minds about that, as they contacted Age Partnership 
again to discussed releasing equity to repay the existing mortgage.
It is also clear from the recordings of the discussions, that Mr J and Mrs K intended 
throughout to take as much money out of their home as they could. While some might go to 
pay off the mortgage, the remainder was to be used to make their life more comfortable and 
enjoyable. While Mr J and Mrs K may not have ultimately decided to use some or all of the 
funds for that purpose, that doesnt mean that the mortgage was mis-sold. A borrower is 
allowed to borrow for a purpose and then change their minds about what to use the money 
for. That doesnt make the mortgage unsuitable. Also, a mortgage broker or lender isnt able 
to force a consumer to use the money released from a lifetime mortgage for the purposes 
theyve said theyll use it.
I know that this will disappoint Mr J and Mrs K, but I am not persuaded that the mortgage 
was mis-sold to them. It appears they were fully aware of how the mortgage worked, their 
options for repaying their existing mortgage and they had reasons to raise the money they 
asked Age Partnership to arrange for them.
Not that it affects the outcome of this complaint, but I would also comment that I am also not 
persuaded, based on the information that Mr J and Mrs K have provided, that they didnt use 
the released money. The difference between the savings Mr J has evidenced in 2020 and 
their combined savings in 2015 is around £27,000. £20,000 of that came from Mr Js pension 
lump sum, leaving a difference of £7,000. Even before the mortgage was paid off, Mr J and Mrs P were saving around £100 per month, which would account for around £5,000 of that 
increase, and their disposable income increased following the existing mortgage being paid 
off by around £200 per month. So it would appear that, at least some of the money from the 
mortgage advance was spent.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr J and Mrs K to accept or reject my decision 
before 5 April 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman