DRN-3430003
The complaint
Mr W complains the advice given to him by Kingswood Law IFA Limited (KL) led to him 
investing in unsuitable investments which caused him financial loss. 
Mr W is being represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). Any references to 
Mr W will include submissions made on his behalf by the CMC.
What happened
I set out in detail the background to this complaint in my provisional decision, so I wont 
repeat that all again here. Instead, Ill summarise the background which is as follows:
In 2015 Mr W was a member of two defined benefit (DB) Occupational Pension Schemes 
(OPS or schemes) with different employers  Ill refer to these two pensions as DB 
pensions. He was looking to transfer his DB pensions into a 'small self-administered 
scheme' (SSAS).
On 8 April 2015, Mr W signed a SSAS agreement. A business Ill refer to as H was the 
scheme practitioner. And a business Ill refer to as C was the scheme administrator. Mr W 
was the member trustee of the SSAS. The person who ran H, was also an adviser with KL. 
This KL adviser (the adviser) advised Mr W about the DB pension transfers and signed the 
SSAS agreement on behalf of H.
Mr W wrote a letter which was addressed to an unregulated introducer. In his letter to the 
introducer dated 1 May 2015 (the introduction letter) Mr W set out his reasons for wanting 
to transfer from his DB pensions and ended by saying: I hope this clarifies my position as it 
is my intention to transfer the funds despite what the report will say.
The introducer wrote to KL on 11 May 2015 enclosing the introduction letter and a number 
of KL marked documents completed by Mr W. This included a Targets and Objectives & 
Financial Experience (T&O) document as well as a fact find. The fact find recorded that 
Mr W was 58 years old and was married with two children. He had suffered from cancer in 
the past but said his health was average. He owned his family home valued at £125,000 
and buy-to-let properties worth £250,000. And had total mortgage debt of £290,000. The 
T&O said that Mr Ws only investment experience had been in esoteric unregulated 
investment, such as diamonds, fine wines, art, carbon credits, gold, rare earths etc.
In a suitability report (the report) dated 1 July 2015 KLs adviser said: your pension 
benefits are a significant proportion of pension benefits and should be protected as far as 
reasonably possible. At the same time you have stated that you wish to move the pensions 
to the Occupational Pension (SSAS) to obtain full control over it so that you can invest in 
property related funds. In doing so you will be required to cease the guarantees provided by 
the Scheme, the employer and in turn the Pension Protection Fund and instead take on the 
investment risk yourself.
The adviser went on to discuss the critical yields for each DB pension. In terms of one of the 
DB pensions the analysis was based on an Intelligent Money SIPP (Self Invested Personal 
Pension) and invested in an iShares ETF (exchange-traded fund). The critical yield with no 
tax-free cash lump sum was 11.78% and with a tax-free lump sum this reduced to 9.47%. 
The second DB pension analysis was based on a Liverpool Victoria personal pension and 
invested in a Balanced Consensus fund. The critical yield was 11.16% with no tax-free lump 
sum being taken, as none could be taken for this scheme. 
The adviser said the critical yields as set out in his report, werent achievable rates of 
investment return. So, he said this was the reason he was recommending against Mr W 
transferring his DB pension benefits to a SSAS. The recommendation made by the adviser 
was as follows: My conclusion is that whilst it is possible to achieve the objectives you are 
seeking via the product solution you proposed [SSAS], to do so will present you with 
significant risk to your financial well being. You have not presented me with any reason that 
necessitates that a SSAS is critical to achieving your objectives.
Mr W went against the advice of KL and transferred both his DB pensions to the SSAS. He 
then used the transferred funds, after he took 25% tax free cash, to invest in an Unregulated 
Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS). Subsequently, the UCIS was placed into 
administration and Mr W estimates his financial loss was £148,000 as a result of his 
investment in this vehicle.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. But in my provisional decision, I considered that as 
Mr W would have transferred regardless of the advice by KL, I didnt think it was the cause of 
his loss. Mr W disagreed with my provisional findings. In summary, the CMC representing 
Mr W made the following points:
Mr W didnt receive appropriate independent advice as required under regulations. 
Given the errors made by KL during the advice process, Mr W fails to see how he 
received appropriate independent advice for the fee he paid.
If the KL adviser didnt know that Mr W was going to act against advice, why did he 
sign the declaration confirming he received advice two months after the suitability 
report was issued. Without KLs adviser signing the declaration the transfer could not 
go ahead and as KL was aware of Mr Ws intentions, it should have done more to 
comply with its regulatory requirements.
The transfer analysis is completely flawed because the critical yield figure was based 
on a comparison with a SIPP that KL knew Mr W was never going to transfer into. 
This is a clear breach of regulations.
Mr W wasnt advised about the risks of investing in an UCIS. It was imperative that 
the adviser knew of Mr Ws intended investment choice in order to advise him 
correctly. Mr W said that if hed been warned correctly he would not have gone 
ahead with the UCIS investment.
If KL had contacted Mr W directly it would have known the undue influence the 
unregulated introducer was having on him. As a result he wasnt correctly advised.
The unregulated introducer advised Mr W that the UCIS would bring significant gains, 
and that they were safe and secure investments. So if KL had told Mr W of the risks 
involved, he would have followed its advice. The very maximum he was willing to risk 
was 33% of his funds as noted in the fact find and suitability report but because KLs 
advice was inadequate, he invested all of the residual amounts of his DB pensions.
KL responded to the points the CMC had made. It didnt agree with the points made by the 
CMC but didnt provide any submissions disputing my provisional findings.
So, the matter has been passed back to me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in my provisional decision the reasons why I was not upholding this complaint. This 
reasoning now forms part of my final decision. In summary, my reasons for not upholding 
this complaint as set out in the provisional decision is as follows:
The starting point for a DB pension transfer is that it isnt suitable to transfer due to the loss 
of valuable defined benefits. And this is the recommendation that was made by KL. The 
adviser then said in his recommendation: My conclusion is that whilst it is possible to 
achieve the objectives you are seeking via the product solution you proposed [the SSAS], to 
do so will present you with significant risks to your financial well being.
In my view, whilst the adviser did set out the various options open to Mr W, which included to 
do nothing, he also presented some conflicting and contradictory advice. On the one hand, 
Mr W was told his best option was to do nothing, but on the other, if he were to choose this 
option, he wouldnt meet his objectives.
I also think its unclear why the adviser thought it was possible for Mr W to achieve his 
objectives through a SSAS unless consideration was given to his (Mr Ws) actual investment 
choices. The regulator issued an alert in 2013, which was reinforced in 2014, saying that as 
part of an advisers duty to provide suitable advice about a defined benefit transfer, they 
should take into account the proposed investments. But, as KL has pointed out, this 
guidance refers to situations where the recommendation was to transfer.
But as I said in my provisional decision as well as the regulators alerts, KL needed to take 
into account its regulatory obligations when advising Mr W. The regulators principles for 
businesses (the principles) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) provides 
direction in regard to how firms must act when advising and dealing with clients. 
The principles say firms must have due regard to the interests of its clients and treat them 
fairly. It also requires firms to pay due regard to the information needs of its clients making 
sure that information is clear, fair, and not misleading. Under principle 9 Customers: 
relationships of trust the firm must: take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its 
advice and discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely on its judgement. 
And COBS 9.2.1 says when assessing suitability the firm is obliged to take reasonable steps 
to ensure that a personal recommendation is suitable for its client, by, for example, taking 
into account factors such as their financial position and investment experience.
So, I dont think KLs regulatory obligations meant it only had to consider Mr Ws investment 
choices when the recommendation was to transfer. I think every case would need to be 
considered on its merits depending on the information needs of that particular customer.
As noted above, the analysis on which the adviser based his recommendations, were based 
on comparisons with investment products held in a SIPP and personal pension. These had 
no bearing on the actual investment choices Mr W made. In response to this KL has said: 
Where a positive transfer recommendation is provided, it would of course include figures for 
the recommended receiving scheme as part of the advice justification and relevant 
disclosure to the client, but that does not apply in this case.
I accept KLs arguments about the regulators alerts. But equally, in line with its regulatory 
duties, some of which Ive outlined above, KL needed to provide sufficiently clear and 
comprehensive information to Mr W so that he could make an informed choice about whether to follow its advice. Further, I think the involvement of the introducer, meant there 
was an increased risk of undue influence from this third party on Mr Ws decision to transfer 
and also on the investment choices he was likely to make. 
So, whilst KL maintains that because it didnt recommend the transfer, it didnt need to 
consider Mr Ws investment choices, I consider these regulations place a distinct 
responsibility upon KL to anticipate a pension transfer can subsequently create a vehicle for 
investments in unsuitable products. Also given the involvement of an unregulated introducer, 
care was needed to ensure the information Mr W was given met with his information needs 
at that time. I think if Mr Ws investment objectives had been adequately explored, this would 
have provided the KL adviser with an opportunity to comprehensively explain to Mr W why a 
UCIS was unsuitable for him.
Nonetheless, whilst I accept the UCIS wasnt discussed as part of the advice process, there 
is notable strength in evidence that shows Mr W, was determined to transfer the pension in 
any event. So, Im persuaded that he wouldve done so even with further information and/ or 
advice about the risks associated with a UCIS investment. I should also point out that the 
adviser did provide some risk warnings to Mr W investing his pension funds in high risk 
investments. This was a fairly generic warning and its hard to know if Mr W understood the 
high risk nature of an UCIS. Therefore, its difficult to see what further information Mr W 
would have needed to persuade him not to invest as he did.
Mr W has sought to argue that KLs role in setting up the SSAS and confirmation of advice to 
the OPS, facilitated the investment, so it is responsible for his losses because of this. Whilst 
KLs advice did allow Mr W to let the OPS (DB pension) administrators know advice had 
been received, he was entitled to receive this confirmation as this was a matter of fact. And 
while the KL adviser did set up the SSAS, which did indicate Mr Ws clear intention to 
transfer regardless of the advice, I dont consider this amounted to KL facilitating the 
investment choices made by Mr W.
It should also be noted that Mr Ws attention was drawn to more mainstream investments as 
part of the advice. Whilst this had the disadvantage of not including information about his 
actual investment, it did draw his attention to investments that most certainly wouldve been 
a safer option for his funds. And more in line with his attitude to risk than the UCIS he 
ultimately invested in. He was also told and, seems to have been aware that, he would be 
losing the valuable guarantees by transferring from the DB pensions. Despite this, he still 
chose to invest as he did. I think the balance of evidence shows he intended to invest in the 
UCIS regardless of how sound the advice from KL was.
Ive considered what Mr W said about being vulnerable at the time of the advice. But theres 
nothing to suggest he wasnt capable of seeking and/ or understanding the advice he was 
given. So, as I said in my provisional decision, for all the above reasons, and on balance, I 
dont think KLs advice was the cause of Mr Ws losses.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr W provided further submissions via his CMC 
which Ive summarised above. I consider Ive already addressed most of the arguments the 
CMC made but for completeness I will add the following:
I appreciate Mr W now says if KL had told him about the risks of investing in an 
UCIS, he would not have invested as he did. But the letter that was signed by him 
and sent to KL clearly said no matter what the advice, he would still go ahead with 
the transfer. I cant fairly say theres any contemporaneous evidence to support that 
Mr W would have taken a different course of action if advised any differently. He was 
told not to transfer and this was suitable advice to give him.I agree that the unregulated introducer likely had undue influence on Mr Ws decision 
making. Knowing this was a possibility I think KLs advice did fall short in terms of 
having due regard to Mr Ws specific information needs. But in order to uphold this 
complaint, Id still need to be satisfied that KL was the cause of the loss. For the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont think it was.
I note the regulations the CMC has pointed to. But Ive addressed these points in 
what Ive said above. I should also note that whilst KL didnt focus on the actual 
investment Mr W made, it did take into account factors such as his investment 
experience and financial circumstances when making its recommendations. As a 
result of this, and the fact the starting position for a DB pension transfer is that its not 
in the best interest of the client, its recommendation was not to transfer.
After receiving the advice, Mr W was entitled to receive the declaration he needed for 
his OPS provider. KL was a regulated business which had permissions to cover the 
advice it gave to Mr W. So, I dont think the adviser did anything wrong by signing the 
declaration. The timing of the declaration likely meant the adviser knew Mr W was 
going against his advice. But the advice had already been given, so I dont think the 
adviser was under any duty to provide this again. Or to refuse to sign the form. Mr W 
had received independent and regulated advice. And the declaration simply 
confirmed this was the case.
I note what the CMC has said about KL not speaking with Mr W directly. But Mr W 
doesnt deny that he was given advice by KL. Or that he didnt receive the 
recommendations or the other paperwork which formed part of KLs advice.
KL also provided further submissions but the points it made in response to Mr Ws 
submissions have been addressed above. 
So, whilst I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed with this outcome, for all the reasons set 
out above, Im not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman