DRN-2544156
The complaint
Mrs B (by way of a representative) complains Morses Club PLC (Morses Club) lent to her
irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Morses Club disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I wasnt intending to uphold 
Mrs Bs complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mrs B took two home collected loans between September 2017 and March 2018. Ive
included some of the information weve received about these loans in the table below.
Loan Number Loan Amount Date of loan Actual Repayment Date
1 £200 14/09/2017 19/02/2018
2 £300 14/03/2018 06/12/2019
The adjudicator said that Morses Club should have completed further checks before lending.
But based on the checks it did complete, he felt Morses Club ought to have known that Mrs
B wouldnt be able to repay either of the loans sustainably. So, the adjudicator said it was
wrong to have granted both home credit loans.
Morses Club disagrees with the adjudicators assessment. It said its checks went far enough
and indicated the loans would be affordable and sustainable. In summary, Morses Club has
said that:
Mrs Bs weekly income and expenditure indicated she had a disposable income for
loan 1 of £27 per week;
for loan 1 it assessed the application based on an income of £155 per week which
was verified with a wage slip - and although Mrs B declared a higher level of income,
it didnt use this as part of its assessment;
for the second loan it was able to verify all of Mrs Bs income;
the verified income for loan 2 was consistent with the unverified income for loan 1;
the verified income for loan 2 of £318 left Mrs B with disposable income of £108
which meant she could meet the same repayment as the first loan (£15);
it wasnt aware that at the point of sale that Mrs Bs ability to make repayments might
subsequently change.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Thinking about the
relevant rules and regulations Im intending to not uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ive
explained why below.
Morses Club had to assess the lending to check if Mrs B could afford to pay back the
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses Clubs checks could have taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Mrs Bs income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses Club should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs B. These factors include:
Mrs B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs B.
Morses Club was required to establish whether Mrs B could sustainably repay her home
loans  not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs B was able
to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (the industry regulatory) says in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Bs complaint.
loan 1
Loan 1 (£200) was due to be repaid through 20 weekly instalments of £15. Mrs B declared
an income of £334 per week made up of wages (£155) together with benefit payments and
other income (£179). As Morses Club could only verify the wages declared it didnt use the
benefit and other income as part of its assessment. It therefore assessed Mrs B application
on a weekly income of £155.Morses Club also asked Mrs B about her expenditure, such as her commitments for
rent/mortgage, credit cards, other credit, other loans, council tax and transport. Considering
the expenditure declared by Mrs B of £128, this left a disposable income of £12 per week
after the weekly loan payment of £15.
The adjudicator thought £12 per week was a limited amount to cover any additional or
unforeseen costs. So, he thought Morses Club ought to have realised it was unlikely Mrs B
wouldve been able to sustainably repay loan 1 or any subsequent loan.
Whilst Morses Club could only verify an income of £155 for loan 1, this isnt to say Mrs Bs
income wasnt what she declared. As Morses Club has pointed out, when loan 2 was lent the
verified income appeared to be consistent with what Mrs B declared for loan 1. I can also
see from information obtained from Mrs Bs representative as part of the complaint
submission that Mrs B recalls her income as being higher than £155 when loan 1 was lent.
So, I think its unlikely that the overall income Mrs B declared for loan 1 was inaccurate.
Ive also thought about what the adjudicator has said about the £12 buffer available to Mrs
B based on an income of £155. This was a weekly amount and each month wouldve left Mrs
B with around £50 for unexpected expenses.
But based on what Morses Club knew about Mrs Bs likely expenditure and as I think that the
income Mrs B declared was most likely accurate, I dont think Morses Club was wrong to
lend because the loan repayments over 20 weeks would likely be sustainable.
Considering the level of lending, the loan term and it being the first loan, I also think the
checks for loan 1 went far enough. Ive not seen quite enough evidence to indicate that
Morses Club ought to have built up a more detailed picture of Mrs Bs finances, such as
verifying everything it was told or completing a full review of her finances.
loan 2
Loan 2 (£300) was taken out almost a month after the repayment of loan 1. I can see that
Mrs B didnt always repay loan 1 weekly as scheduled, but she did make regular payments
each month and overall there didnt seem to be any difficulty repaying the loan.
For loan 2 Mrs B declared an income of £318 per week which I understand was verified by
Morses Club through credit reference checks. So, considering the expenditure declared by
Mrs B for this loan of £210, this left a disposable income of £108 per week after making the
weekly repayment of £15.
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable for Morses Club to lend as repayment for the loan
wouldve seemed affordable and sustainable for Mrs B.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs B was struggling financially and repaying these loans has proved
difficult. And I accept that Mrs Bs full financial circumstances may not have been reflected in
the information she provided. And it might be that Mrs Bs actual financial position may well
have been apparent if further information  such as bank statements  had been obtained.
But I dont think it had reached the point either in the lending relationship or based on what 
Morses Club knew about Mrs B, that meant it needed to verify the information Mrs B
provided  such as checking her expenditure. So, I dont think that it could or should have
known that Mrs B may have been having financial difficulties at the time it lent either loan.
There also doesnt appear to have been any information that would have alerted MorsesClub to a subsequent change in Mrs Bs financial position which might have affected her
ability to repay either loan.
It is of course possible that, had Mrs B continued to borrow from Morses Club, then it may
have needed to have carried out further, more in-depth, checks which may have involved
asking for evidence of her financial position. But considering Mrs B took two loans and these
appeared affordable, I dont think Morses Club was wrong to have provided them.
As this is the case, Im not intending to uphold Mrs Bs complaint about these loans. I
appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs B. But I hope that shell understand why Im
intending to reach these findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses Club told us it didnt have any new comments or information for me to consider. 
Mrs Bs representative also didnt provide anything new for me to consider. 
Ive therefore reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision for the same 
reasons. So I still dont think Morses Club made an error when it provided Mrs B with her 
loans. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman