DRN-4341510
The complaint
Mr H says American Express Services Europe Limited (AmEx) unfairly closed his credit card 
account and mis-advised him about re-applying.
What happened
Mr H applied for an AmEx credit card account in September 2022. AmEx then suspended 
the account pending receipt of further information from Mr H in support of the application. 
Mr H responded to its requests.
In December 2022, AmEx wrote to Mr H to confirm it was closing the account as it wasnt 
satisfied with his responses. He said he subsequently re-applied for AmEx accounts 
following advice from AmEx representatives to do so. But those applications were declined 
and, he said, this resulted in his credit score being further adversely affected. 
After Mr H complained, AmEx stood by its actions and its decision to close his account.
 
Unhappy with AmExs response, Mr H complained to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint and recommended that it shouldnt be upheld. They believed 
AmEx had acted fairly given the account terms and conditions and that it hadnt done 
anything wrong.
As Mr H was unhappy with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh and reach a decision. Among other things, Mr H said hed been adversely 
affected by what AmEx had done. 
On reviewing the complaint, I issued a provisional decision upholding it in part. I explained 
that I didnt think AmEx had unfairly closed the account given it had done so in line with the 
account terms and conditions. But, for the inaccurate and inconsistent advice AmEx gave 
Mr H, I considered it should pay him compensation of £100. 
I gave both parties the chance to respond with any further comments or information they 
wanted me to consider before I finalised my decision. 
Mr H replied that he understood his account could be closed without a reason being given. 
His point was that AmEx had given him a reason  that the information it had requested from 
him hadnt been received in time. Mr H said that wasnt true as hed provided the information 
twice and on the day it was requested.
Mr H said if his account couldnt be reinstated, he should be awarded a far higher amount of 
compensation than £100. 
AmEx didnt reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im confirming my final decision to uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain 
why.
In my provisional decision, I recognised how frustrating it must have been for Mr H to 
discover that his account had been suspended and then closed without his agreement. He 
clearly feels hes done nothing wrong, and that AmExs actions simply arent justified. 
On the other hand, Im mindful that, just as a customer can close an account with a bank 
with or without reason, there isnt anything to stop a bank from doing likewise. As long as 
that bank does so fairly and in accordance with its terms and conditions. Mr H says he 
understands this.
As stated before, Ive reviewed the applicable account and credit card terms and conditions 
and they explain AmEx will write to the consumer at least two months before closing their 
account (unless there are reasons for it to close the account immediately). They dont 
suggest that AmEx must provide a reason every time an account is closed. From 
experience, such terms are commonly found in personal banking and credit card 
agreements, and I dont think theyre inherently unfair or unreasonable. 
Based on the available information, and as accepted by Mr H, Im satisfied AmEx provided 
Mr H with two months notice before closing the account in line with the account terms and 
conditions.
As such, I dont think AmEx treated Mr H unfairly in closing the account as it did. 
I note that Mr H says AmExs closure of the account adversely affected his credit rating. 
Thats unfortunate for Mr H but, as I say, I think AmEx was entitled to take the action that it 
did. So, I dont find that its responsible for the consequences of the closure. 
Im aware that Mr H attempted to re-apply for AmEx accounts and that, he says, this was 
based on advice given by members of staff at AmEx. Ive listened to a call recording Mr H 
has provided in which he was firstly told by AmEx he could apply for a different AmEx credit 
card to the one hed originally applied for. He was then put through to another representative 
who confirmed Mr H would be able to apply for any AmEx credit card account, including the 
same type of account as that one that had just been closed.
The representative went on to say that the application would be accepted provided Mr H 
sent it the information it had requested. 
I dont think the advice Mr H received during the call was entirely accurate or consistent. And 
I believe it unfairly raised his expectations as to the potential success of any future 
applications he might make.
As a result, I still think it would be fair for AmEx to pay Mr H £100 as compensation for the 
impact of its mis-advice. The advice caused Mr H unnecessary inconvenience and 
disappointment at a time when he was already unhappy with AmExs actions. But Im still not 
asking AmEx to pay compensation in relation to Mr Hs credit rating following the re-
applications. Thats because Ive not seen any evidence to indicate his credit rating suffered 
due to AmExs actions or that, if it did, Mr H has lost out financially as a result. 
I understand Mr Hs point about the reasons AmEx gave for closing his account. And Ive 
carefully considered the evidence hes sent me in response to my provisional decision. But I 
think the amount Ive awarded is sufficient to cover the impact of any confusion caused by AmEx for that aspect. I dont believe additional compensations warranted in the 
circumstances and because AmEx was always entitled to close the account without giving 
reasons. 
As for the reinstatement of Mr Hs account hes asked for, thats a commercial decision for 
AmEx to make and isnt something I can reasonably interfere with.
Putting things right
AmEx should pay Mr H £100 as compensation for the impact of its errors and in mistakenly 
leading him to believe his re-applications for a credit card would be accepted.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint in part. I require American Express Services 
Europe Limited to put things right for Mr H as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman