DRN-3759452
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) have unfairly 
declined their buildings insurance claim.
All references to Watford also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy excludes damage resulting from defective design or faulty workmanship. 
Watford said the foundations are inadequate and the builder of the property did not 
consider ground conditions as set out in guidance from a provider of building 
warranties. Watford has therefore declined the claim by applying the above 
exclusion.
While Watford has set out what it believes to be the likely cause of the damage, this 
isnt supported by investigations identifying the cause. 
The policy doesnt set out any requirement to adhere to the standards of the building 
warranty provider of new homes and Watford hasnt provided any information to 
support the foundations failed to meet relevant building regulations. While I 
appreciate its comments about the level of investigation required, I dont think it has 
provided sufficient evidence to show foundations are defective and so it has applied 
the exclusion fairly. 
So, for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right I direct Watford to re-examine the claim under the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. If Watford feels another party should contribute towards any liable 
costs in the event of a successful claim, it should deal with this separately. It should not 
impact Mr and Mrs W, or its timely completion of the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
To put things right, I direct Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to do as Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman