DRN-4114223
The complaint
Mrs S complains about PEGMOS Limited (PEGMOS). She says PEGMOS gave her 
unsuitable advice when it recommended that she transfer out of her defined benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP). 
Mrs S is represented in this matter by a third party (the representative).
What happened
Having been offered a review of her OPS pension, Mrs S and her husband, Mr S, met with 
PEGMOS in October 2016. Notes were taken during the meeting and a fact find and risk 
profile questionnaire were completed. In summary, PEGMOS recorded the following: 
Mrs S was almost 55 years old, married and in good health. She had no financial 
dependents.
Mrs S no longer worked. Mr S, who was employed, covered their joint expenditure.
Mr S had suffered ill health two years prior, causing him and Mrs S to re-evaluate 
their lifestyle and financial plans. Specifically, Mr S health issues had concerned 
them about how long his income would be maintained. Nevertheless, their mindset 
was to live for today and they looked forward to regular holidays theyd planned.
Mr and Mrs S monthly expenditure was £861; they didnt wish to carry out a detailed 
expenditure analysis.
Mr and Mrs S owned their home, valued at approximately £275,000 with an 
outstanding mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs S held £180,000 in cash investments. They also owned three buy-to-let 
(BTL) properties, together valued at £655,000, with outstanding mortgages totalling 
£409,500. The BTL portfolio brought in rental income of £2,550 per month. The 
equity Mr and Mrs S had in these properties gave them a sense of comfort.
Mr and Mrs S planned to increase their BTL portfolio but required further advice on 
the matter.
Mrs S was considering accessing cash from her OPS pension to manage their 
existing BTL portfolio. She didnt want to receive annuity income due to its 
inflexibility.
Despite their outstanding liabilities, Mr and Mrs S didnt want to consider repaying or 
reducing them because they wanted to retain control of capital.
In terms of investment objectives, Mrs S said the target amount she wanted to 
achieve from her pension was £1,200 per month at age 55. 
Mrs S attitude to risk (ATR) was balanced.
The Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) of Mrs S OPS pension was 
£176,434.02. 
Mrs S expected to receive her state pension at age 66.
A Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report was produced in December 2016, with PEGMOS 
Suitability Report for Mrs S finalised in January 2017. In summary, PEGMOS said the 
following in its report:
It recommended that Mrs S transfer and invest in one of its balanced portfolios. In 
doing so, Mrs S would be able to flexibly access her funds in line with her 
requirements; secure more attractive death benefits; have wider fund choice and 
receive regular reviews to ensure her retirement plans remained on track.
Mrs S priority was to potentially access funds from her pension to manage her 
existing property portfolio.
Critical yield figures werent a driving force in Mrs S decision to transfer. Her main 
reasons for transferring were greater control over how and when she drew income 
and to improve on and gain flexible death benefits.
Having considered her finances and worked on cash flow modellers, all indications 
were that Mrs S would have more than enough joint income with her husband in 
retirement. This had influenced Mrs S decision to transfer.
Mrs S accepted PEGMOS advice and later transferred. 
In 2021, through her representative, Mrs S complained to PEGMOS about the advice shed 
received in 2017. PEGMOS responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it, saying the 
advice was suitable. It said its advice file evidenced that Mr and Mrs S BTL portfolio would 
meet their retirement needs, while transferring provided Mrs S with the flexibility and lump 
sum she needed over and above that provided by her other income sources. 
Unhappy with PEGMOS response, Mrs S representative referred the complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators considered the matter, concluding that the complaint should 
be upheld. In short, she didnt think transferring was in Mrs S best interests. 
Our investigators assessment was sent to PEGMOS and when it later entered voluntary 
liquidation, a copy of the assessment was forwarded to PEGMOS appointed liquidator. No 
response from either party was received, so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold Mrs S complaint. Ill explain why. 
The regulators position
At the time of PEGMOS advice, the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), set 
out the principles for assessing suitability. The relevant rules in the FCAs Handbook and 
Conduct of Business Rules (COBS) are 9.2.1 and 9.2.2. These required PEGMOS to gather 
sufficient information from Mrs S to ensure its recommendation met her objectives; that    
she could financially withstand the risks associated with these objectives and that she had 
the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
I dont think all the factors in deciding suitability were met in this case. Im not satisfied 
PEGMOS went far enough in terms of gathering and recording enough information about 
Mrs S circumstances; adequately exploring and interrogating her objectives or satisfactorily 
evaluating, explaining, and documenting the associated risks with transferring. Because of this I dont think it was reasonable for PEGMOS to conclude that transferring was a suitable 
course of action for Mrs S to take.
DB schemes like Mrs S typically have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving these up 
and subjecting future pension income to the risks associated with unpredictable investment 
returns should only be done where it can be shown its clearly in the best interests of the 
consumer. Under 19.1.6 the COBS rules at the time of the advice said:
When advising a retail client who is () a member of a defined benefits occupational 
pension scheme (), a firm should start by assuming that a transfer () will not be suitable. 
A firm should only consider a transfer () to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, () is in the retail clients best interests.
Given the regulators position, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
So, PEGMOS shouldve only considered a transfer if it could adequately demonstrate that 
there were compelling reasons why, instead of maintaining safeguarded benefits, the 
transfer was in Mrs S best interests. And having looked at the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied it was.
Mrs S position at the time of PEGMOS advice
At the time of the advice, Mrs S had accrued significant qualifying service  over 28 years  
in her former employers OPS. Other than her state pension entitlement at age 67, Mrs S 
OPS benefits were her only retirement provision. And when considered alongside her 
husbands modest PPP (valued at just over £28,000) and state pension entitlement, Mrs S 
OPS benefits represented the largest proportion of the couples entire future retirement 
income. 
In terms of other assets Mrs S could potentially rely on if her transfer didnt work out, Mr and 
Mrs S held £180,000 in cash investments, owned their own home, and had a BTL portfolio. 
PEGMOS recorded that the latter gave Mrs S comfort and ultimately persuaded her to 
transfer. But PEGMOS failed to collate and set out information about these assets, 
especially the BTL portfolio, in any meaningful way. Without this its not clear to me how 
PEGMOS could satisfy itself that the level of reassurance Mrs S got from her assets was 
realistic or ensure that she was making an informed decision to transfer. 
Notably absent details from PEGMOS advice file included the amount of equity in the BTL 
properties, tenancy types and details of outstanding mortgages, such as mortgage type, 
term, remaining balance, and existing and anticipated mortgage payments. It also neglected 
to establish exactly what Mr and Mrs S cash investments comprised of. PEGMOS suitability 
report made only the fleeting references to Mrs S assets, so it wasnt  and still isnt  
entirely clear what information PEGMOS relied on which enabled it to conclude that Mrs S 
had sufficient capacity for loss and should transfer. 
Although PEGMOS says Mrs S confirmed she could accept a 15% fall in the value of her 
pension over the course of a year, Im not sure this is entirely accurate. The only evidence 
Ive seen shows that when completing PEGMOS risk profile questionnaire Mrs S ticked her 
agreement to a statement saying that a fall of more than 15% would most concern her. I 
dont think this necessarily meant she was able to accept losses of 15%. The answer she 
gave in the questionnaire was based on how shed feel as opposed to what she could 
withstand in practice. So, I dont think it could be relied on in the way PEGMOS has sought 
to. 
As it stands, Mr and Mrs S had significant outstanding mortgages on all their BTL properties. 
And from what Ive seen, these mortgages (along with Mr and Mrs S residential mortgage) were all interest only. This meant that at the end of each mortgage term Mr and Mrs S would 
be required repay the original amount borrowed, likely as a one-off lump sum, re-mortgage 
or sell their properties. Information like this was crucial for PEGMOS and ought to have been 
a key consideration when advising Mrs S on whether to transfer. It wouldve provided a more 
accurate picture and deeper understanding of Mrs S situation, especially in terms of the 
amount of risk she could afford to take.
So, while I accept that Mrs S financial position was, by all general appearances, quite 
favourable, PEGMOS failure to establish the specifics of this position, meant that key 
information was missing. And this leads me to question the basis on which it was able to 
conclude that Mrs S financial position could be relied on to mitigate the risks associated with 
transferring and that it would provide more than enough retirement income for Mrs S and 
her husband.
Despite any feelings she may have had, the fact remains that Mrs S was dependent on 
PEGMOS expertise. She wasnt a pensions expert, able to effectively assess whether her 
financial circumstances meant it was appropriate to take additional risks with her OPS 
benefits. PEGMOS needed to accurately establish her financial position at the outset, 
including her specific retirement needs, and make a reasonable assessment of the situation. 
Had it done so, I think it wouldve been clear that, for several reasons, Mrs S transferring out 
of her OPS wasnt essential or worthwhile.
Financial Viability 
An important part of assessing the viability of a DB transfer, is a careful analysis of the 
investment returns required from any investments in the receiving scheme, to match (let 
alone exceed) the benefits being given up by transferring out of the DB scheme. And that 
needs to be done in conjunction with other important considerations, including an investors 
ATR, financial circumstances, and objectives.
PEGMOS advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past 
pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates 
when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what 
growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor when 
the advice was given in this case.
As set out in the TVAS prepared for Mrs S, the critical yield required from any new 
arrangement to match Mrs S OPS benefits at age 56 was 56% pa if she took a full pension 
and 32% pa if she took TFC and a reduced pension. At age 60, the critical yield required to 
match Mrs S benefits was 15.8% pa if she took a full pension and 11.9% pa if she took TFC 
and a reduced pension. 
This compares with the discount rate of 2.3% pa for 1 year to retirement at age 56 and 3% 
for 4 years to retirement at age 60 in this case. For further comparison, the regulator's upper 
projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection 
rate 2% pa. I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount 
rate, what PEGMOS recorded as Mrs S ATR  balanced  and the term to retirement. The 
critical yield in this case was considerably higher than both the discount rate deemed 
achievable over the same period, and the upper-band growth rate used by the regulator. So 
even if the arrangement Mrs S transferred to achieved the highest growth at that time, it was 
unlikely shed receive a materially higher pension as a result of transferring. To come 
anywhere near to achieving this, she wouldve needed to take investment risk which likely 
exceeded her ATR. I cant see that Mrs S was ever provided with a copy of the TVAS and the critical yields 
therein. In the circumstances, I wouldve expected PEGMOS to, at the very least, share the 
critical yields relevant to Mrs S situation  so, the critical yields required if benefits were 
taken at her scheme retirement age (60) and her desired retirement age (56). PEGMOS 
provided Mrs S with neither of these figures in its suitability report. Instead, for reasons 
unknown, it set out critical yield figures based on Mrs S OPS transferring to the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF)  a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. But Mrs S OPS wasnt at 
risk; it was fully funded. So, the information PEGMOS provided to Mrs S in this respect was 
meaningless at best and misleading at worst.
Without giving Mrs S key facts and relevant explanations about the critical yields involved, 
Im not satisfied that PEGMOS met its obligation to understand and pay sufficient attention to 
Mrs S circumstances; recognise her lack of investment knowledge and experience; and 
provide the information she needed to understand the risks involved and properly consider 
the potential implications of transferring to meet her objectives.
PEGMOS essentially dismissed the of critical yield figures, saying they werent the key 
driving force in Mrs S decision to transfer as she was seeking more control and flexibility, 
along with improved death benefits. Thats understandable given that PEGMOS never 
provided Mrs S with correct critical yield figures or an explanation of what they meant in real 
terms. Notwithstanding this, I accept that the critical yield isnt an entirely precise or 
personalised tool to reflect all individual circumstances and objectives. However, critical yield 
figures generated do give a good indication of the value offered by an OPS and the ability to 
secure comparable benefits on the open market. So, theyre nevertheless useful in that 
regard.
I think PEGMOS position regarding the critical yields tends to underplay their importance. 
Considering Mrs S circumstances and the level of growth required to ensure she wasnt 
financially worse off, I think it was clear that the transfer would represent a high-risk 
transaction only suitable for an experienced investor with enough additional drivers for the 
transfer to mitigate the risks involved. I dont think there were in Mrs S case. In my view 
transferring wasnt in Mrs S best interests and PEGMOS shouldnt have advised her to do 
so.
PEGMOS produced cashflow modellers which it said indicated Mrs S would have more than 
enough joint income with Mr S in retirement. But given the limited evidence showing that 
PEGMOS tried to establish what, in financial terms, Mr and Mrs S specific income needs 
and circumstances in retirement were likely to be, I have serious doubts about the value of 
these. 
PEGMOS wrote NOT DISCLOSED/REVIEWED on several sections of its fact find. In some 
instances, it crossed out entire sections or left them completely blank. This included sections 
meant to capture details of Mr and Mrs S existing income, anticipated income changes, 
future income requirements and goals. In a section for Mr and Mrs S liabilities (of which 
minimal detail was provided), PEGMOS recorded that they didnt wish to repay or reduce 
these as they wanted to retain control of capital. Theres no indication PEGMOS made any 
enquiries about this with Mr and Mrs S, least of all to establish what was meant and more 
importantly, when, and how they intended to settle these liabilities. The same is true for the 
section where its recorded that Mrs S didnt want expected income changes to be 
incorporated into the modeller. 
This was a significant omission. Although Mrs S husband was working at the time of the 
advice and meeting his and Mrs S expenses, the reality was that half of his recorded income 
was made up of bonuses and hed had recent health issues which had led him and his wife to want to take a different, more in the moment, approach to life. So, it was reasonable to 
assume that Mr S would retire at some point and in all likelihood soon. PEGMOS ought to 
have established when this might be and factored the resulting income change into its 
advice. 
Without understanding Mrs S income requirements along with details of Mr and Mrs S 
mortgages (including existing payments, anticipated increases due to fixed interest rate 
periods ending and standard variable rates kicking in, mortgage redemption dates and 
repayment strategies), I dont think that PEGMOS can be said to have met the regulators 
requirement for an adviser to know enough about its clients situation and ensure its advice 
took this sufficiently into account. 
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, financial viability isnt the only consideration when 
giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. My understanding of PEGMOS position is 
that the basis of its recommendation was the benefit transferring had for Mrs S in terms of 
other objectives being met.
Needs and objectives 
PEGMOS was required obtain sufficient information from Mrs S to understand the essential 
facts about her and have a reasonable basis for believing its recommendation would meet 
her needs and objectives. Without adequately considering both, PEGMOS couldnt 
demonstrate the suitability of its recommendation or that the transfer was in Mrs S best 
interests.
Managing property portfolio
PEGMOS recorded that accessing funds from her OPS to manage her BTL portfolio was 
one of Mrs S priorities and objectives. But Ive seen nothing demonstrating that PEGMOS 
discussed this objective with Mrs S, such that it understood what this meant in practical 
terms. Without this, PEGMOS was essentially partly basing its advice to transfer on an 
objective which wasnt fully articulated. And in doing so it ignored key considerations like 
how much money Mrs S wanted to access and when, the impact of this on her remaining 
fund and therefore the financial viability and level of risk involved in the whole transfer. 
PEGMOS shouldve been aware that significant withdrawals in early retirement could result 
in a lower sustainable income that might not meet Mr and Mrs S essential needs later in 
retirement and advised them accordingly.
Income needs and flexibility 
As Ive said above, I dont find that PEGMOS made reasonable efforts to ensure its 
recommendation met Mrs S retirement income needs. Significantly, it failed to establish 
what exactly her (and her husbands) income requirements were, either based on existing 
circumstances and known liabilities, or reasonable estimations about their needs, likely 
financial obligations in the future and general wishes. For example, PEGMOS never 
accounted for the cost of the increased amount of holidays Mr and Mrs S said they intended 
to take in retirement. 
Theres information in the advice file about the monthly rental income Mr and Mrs S were 
receiving from their BTL portfolio (£2,550) and total mortgage payments they had to make 
each month (£861). However, this was nowhere near enough information for PEGMOS to 
confidently conclude that Mr and Mrs S income needs in retirement could be more than met 
upon transfer; especially given the lack of information PEGMOS had about their other 
income sources. As Ive said, theres no record of PEGMOS establishing what Mr and     Mrs S cash investments were in, how easily accessible these were or what the funds were 
originally intended for. 
To my mind, advising a client to make an irreversible decision and transfer when this advice 
is based on an extremely limited comprehension of the clients needs and financial situation, 
reflects a high-risk strategy and a disturbing lack of regard for the client. The regulators 
position on this matter is clear  where a firm fails to collect necessary information to assess 
suitability, it shouldnt go on to make a personal recommendation to a client. 
In terms of flexibility, PEGMOS said transferring would result in Mrs S gaining access to her 
pension fund in line with her requirements. But PEGMOS didnt state what these 
requirements were or demonstrate that it had considered why the flexibility Mrs S allegedly 
required couldnt be met by her cash investments or Mr Bs pension which allowed flexi-
access drawdown before discounting them. These were logical considerations if flexibility 
really was a key objective for Mrs S which, if deemed appropriate, couldve resulted in her 
gaining flexibility while retaining the valuable benefits provided by her OPS, including a 
guaranteed income for life with increases, a 50% spouses pension and 5-year guarantee 
period. 
To sacrifice guaranteed benefits for the sake of flexibility in an arrangement unlikely to 
achieve the same value as that offered by Mrs S OPS, wouldnt in my view be a suitable 
course of action. Mrs S would effectively be swapping a higher guaranteed income for the 
sake of flexibility in withdrawing a lower overall income. Unlike drawdown, Mrs S OPS didnt 
carry the risk of being exhausted due to longevity and/or investment performance.
Theres nothing which leads me to believe that flexibility and specifically the features of 
Flexi-Access Drawdown were discussed in any great detail with Mrs S. Although PEGMOS 
advice file said Mrs S wanted to access the new style pensions offered under pension 
freedoms, this wasnt something which was explored further. I dont accept that the non-
specific information provided in the 14-page appendix of PEGMOS 28-page suitability report 
addressed this. 
Death benefits
PEGMOS recorded that Mrs S wanted to secure more attractive death benefits for her 
family. The death benefits under her OPS were briefly set out in its suitability report and 
generic information was provided about the death benefits available under a PPP. This 
appears to be the extent of PEGMOS efforts to understand and address Mrs S supposed 
need for improved death benefits. 
Its understandable that Mrs S wanted to ensure her family benefited from her pension when 
she died. However, I dont think PEGMOS has provided sufficient evidence, demonstrating 
that transferring for this reason was worthwhile; that it met its obligation to provide Mrs S 
with enough specific information about the death benefits available under her OPS; or that it 
had regard for the effect of replacing her OPS benefits with the options under a new 
arrangement.
PEGMOS didnt identify what, in real terms, more attractive death benefits looked like for 
Mrs S. Nor did it establish who specifically Mrs S was seeking to provide for upon death, the 
amount she thought theyd need and how they might prefer to receive benefits. And there 
doesnt appear to have been any consideration by PEGMOS of alternative ways Mrs S might 
meet her death benefit objective, for example by using the excess income PEGMOS claimed 
shed have in retirement to purchase life insurance.Transferring to a PPP did offer flexible death benefits  nominated beneficiaries could 
choose to convert the fund value to secure a lifetime annuity, lump sum, income drawdown 
or any combination of these. But Mrs S was in good health, there was nothing to suggest 
she couldnt expect a normal life expectancy and therefore require money from the PPP to 
meet or supplement her income needs in retirement. So, this could mean that upon death 
the size of Mrs S PPP fund remaining for her beneficiaries could be much smaller, 
particularly if investment returns were less favourable than expected.
I also think it was remiss of PEGMOS not to establish the specifics of Mr S own pension 
provision which might have reduced his dependence on Mrs S OPS. As I understand it, 
Mr S had his own pension from a previous employer, but theres no indication that PEGMOS 
considered this when advising Mrs S to transfer for death benefits.
Overall, Im not satisfied that PEGMOS put Mrs S in a position where she fully understood 
her various death benefit options, such that she could make an informed decision about 
transferring for this reason. And I dont think the alternative death benefits offered by the 
PPP justified the likely decrease in retirement benefits for Mrs S.
Summary
While having regard for Mrs S circumstances, objectives, ATR and capacity for loss, it was 
PEGMOS responsibility to evaluate the merits and shortcomings of transferring, while 
considering alternatives, to determine the best course of action for Mrs S, especially in terms 
of what would place her in the best possible position in retirement. Im not satisfied 
PEGMOS did this. And in my view, transferring at a time when Mrs S shouldve been 
reducing  not increasing  the risk she was taking, presented a level of risk that was 
unnecessary.
Although Im conscious of PEGMOS record of Mrs S objectives, Im also mindful that 
retirement planning while it may have regard for an individuals overall preferences, its 
primary focus should be a clients personal circumstances with a view to putting them in the 
best possible position at retirement, with the appropriate income provision in place long-
term. So, while I can accept that Mrs S may have expressed certain priorities, needs and 
objectives, I think a greater level of concern needed to be given to her future long-term 
position. I dont think PEGMOS recommendation did this.
PEGMOS had a significant and overriding responsibility to interrogate Mrs S objectives and 
not accept them at face value. It shouldve sought to identify the underlying reasons why   
Mrs S needed or wanted certain features from her pension, recorded her options in detail 
and determined whether Mrs S identified objectives made giving up the guaranteed benefits 
under her OPS worthwhile. Im not persuaded they were. So, Im not satisfied it was 
appropriate for these factors, which in my view werent sufficiently personal, compelling 
justifications or significant enough incentives, to form the basis for PEGMOS 
recommendation that Mrs S transfer.
PEGMOS submissions indicate that prior to its transfer advice, it had a pre-existing 
relationship with Mr and Mrs S relating to mortgage advice on their BTL properties, but this 
doesnt in my view alter the requirement for it to gather and retain necessary information to 
demonstrate that it knew Mrs S well enough and could give suitable advice about her OPS 
pension.
While information gathered from PEGMOS mortgage advice file may have been of some 
use at the time of the transfer advice, Im conscious that this wouldnt have been as broad or 
as in depth as the level of information required when advising Mrs S to give up valuable 
safeguarded benefits on which she might reasonably rely on throughout her retirement.Overall, I think the quality of the information PEGMOS gathered and its approach to the 
advice it gave Mrs S resulted in material information gaps and ultimately unsuitable advice. It 
also belied what PEGMOS suitability report seemed to acknowledge  namely, that pension 
transfers are subjective and complex matters.
Ultimately, I think PEGMOS shouldve advised Mrs S to remain in her OPS.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mrs S whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
She would like her complaint to be settled in line with new guidance/rules. I consider it fair 
that PEGMOS Limited calculates Mrs S redress in line with new guidance and rules when 
they come into effect.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for PEGMOS Limited to put Mrs S, as far as 
possible, into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she 
would have remained in the occupational scheme. I consider Mrs S would have most likely 
remained in her OPS and not drawn benefits until her normal retirement age of 60. So, the 
calculations should be based on Mr S staying in her OPS until age 60.
The basic objective of the amendments to the redress methodology still remains to put a 
consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had advised 
them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and policy 
statement, Im satisfied that the changes still reflect a fair way to compensate Mrs S.
PEGMOS Limited must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology 
as soon as any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay 
any due compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs S pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs S within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and PEGMOS 
Limited has received notification of Mrs S acceptance of my decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any 
changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes PEGMOS Limited to pay Mrs S.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If PEGMOS Limited deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mrs S how much has been taken off. PEGMOS Limited should 
give Mrs S a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs S asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require PEGMOS Limited to 
pay Mrs S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
PEGMOS Limited to pay Mrs S any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. 
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require PEGMOS 
Limited to pay Mrs S any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
PEGMOS Limited pays Mrs S the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs S.
If Mrs S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on PEGMOS Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman