DRN-2475623
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited didnt return her iPad, after it 
repaired the item following a claim on her gadget insurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs V had previously made a claim on her gadget insurance policy for an issue with her 
iPad, and Assurant completed repairs. 
However, Mrs V was still experiencing issues with her iPad, so Assurant took possession of 
the item again and completed further repairs. Assurant arranged for the iPad to be returned 
to Mrs V via a third party delivery company. However, Mrs V says it wasnt received. 
Assurant told Mrs V it wouldnt provide a replacement iPad due to evidence her repaired 
iPad had been safely delivered. Assurant points towards the following:
- GPS records show the driver visited the correct location.
- The delivery driver gave a description of Mrs V.
- The delivery driver had obtained a signature.
One of our investigators thought the complaint should be upheld. She said Assurant should 
pay Mrs V the amount the iPad was covered for under her policy and compensate her £75. 
Because Assurant disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept the delivery driver visited the correct location. However, the address in question is a 
relatively large block of apartments. So, Im not persuaded the GPS coordinates show that 
Mrs V received the item.
Mrs V says she knows the driver, as many parcels have been delivered by him previously. 
So, whilst the driver gave a relatively broad description which matches Mrs V, Im not 
persuaded this shows the item was delivered to her.
Assurant says, if the driver knew Mrs V, its likely he would have recognised her name and 
known which apartment to go to. I understand the point it makes, but Im not persuaded a 
mistake couldnt have been made when in a rush delivering items.
The signature provided doesnt remotely resemble the signature on Mrs Vs drivers licence 
and passport. I accept delivery signatures arent always accurate, but the signature is very 
different here.
The delivery company says its successfully delivered items to Mrs V before. I dont doubt 
thats the case. But nothing has been provided that shows the signatures obtained on the 
previous deliveries, match the signature for the iPad delivery.
I havent seen or been told anything that leads me to doubt Mrs V. Ive found her testimony 
to be consistent and persuasive. On balance, I accept what she says. Because Im not 
persuaded Assurant safely returned her iPad, I uphold this complaint.
To put matters right, Assurant should provide Mrs V with a replacement iPad on a like-for-
like basis. However, if she can demonstrate shes already replaced it, Assurant should 
reimburse her (up to the value of a like-for-like model). I also agree Assurant should 
compensate Mrs V £75, for not putting matters right sooner.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is Assurant General Insurance Limited should:
- provide Mrs V with a replacement iPad on a like-for-like basis, or if shes already 
replaced it, reimburse her costs up to the value of a like-for-like model; and
- compensate Mrs V £75
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman