DRN-2769019
The complaint
Mr P complains about the service he received from National Savings and Investments 
(NS&I) when he transferred funds to an income bonds account.
What happened
What Mr P says
Mr P says that in July 2020 he set up an income bonds account with NS&I. He wanted to 
transfer funds from his bank account to the new account but found the information NS&I 
provided on its website about how to do so to be poorly presented. All the information wasnt 
in one place and Mr P had to collate it from different pages. Mr P says he was then unable to 
make the transfer as  he later discovered - the payee name provided by NS&I on its 
website (NS&I) was incorrect and his bank wouldnt allow him to make the transfer. Mr P 
visited a local branch and was told to leave a space instead of the & but he was still unable 
to make the transfer. 
Mr P called NS&I, but the staff member he spoke to wasnt helpful and suggested the 
problem was with Mr Ps computer and he should reboot it. After extensive research Mr P 
says he established that the correct account name was NS I INCOME BONDS and he was 
able to make the transfer.
When Mr P made a complaint to NS&I he didnt receive a response within eight weeks. Mr P 
believes that the response he later received, which explained that NS&I doesnt use 
confirmation of payee and to approach his bank, is incorrect. He says NS&I uses 
confirmation of payee for inbound payments. He also doesnt accept NS&Is assertion that its 
response was delayed by the pandemic and thinks that it should have had arrangements in 
place for its staff to work from home so that customer service wasnt impacted. 
NS&I accepted the advice given to Mr P when he called about the problems he was 
experiencing transferring funds wasnt correct and shouldnt have been given. In recognition 
of this NS&I credited Mr Ps account with £25. Mr P thinks he should receive considerably 
more than this. He estimates he has spent a day and a half dealing with the issue and 
complaint and that applying the hourly rate he used to charge this would equate to £360. 
What NS&I say
NS&I explained that some of the larger banks have introduced a confirmation of payee 
service, but it is a provider of savings accounts and isnt able to participate at the moment. It 
said it couldnt comment on why Mr Ps bank wouldnt allow his payment to go through and 
suggested that Mr P contact his own bank. It also said the Covid pandemic and social 
distancing guidelines meant it took longer to answer his call. But it accepted its staff member 
had given incorrect advice, apologised and paid Mr P £25 compensation. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Ps complaint thought NS&I acted reasonably and didnt 
make any further award. She referred to the fact that this service considers individual 
complaints and whether a financial business has made a mistake  and, if so, how it should 
be put right. A number of Mr Ps complaint points relate to internal processes and 
procedures that this service cant comment on. The investigator referred Mr P to the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in respect of these points. 
The investigator noted NS&I doesnt have confirmation of payee in place and so cant be 
held responsible for the problems Mr P encountered when making the payment. She also 
said winnings in a prize draw werent guaranteed and that although there was a delay of a 
few days in NS&I providing a final response she didnt think it would be fair to ask NS&I to 
compensate Mr P. Finally, the investigator said the compensation already paid to Mr P was 
fair.
Mr P didnt accept what the investigator said. In summary, he said:
-  The FCA doesnt deal with individual complaints and would refer him back to this 
service. 
- The investigator misunderstood his point in respect of confirmation of payee. He 
copied the payee name from NS&Is website and NS&I did have inbound 
confirmation of payee in place because it responded to his bank by rejecting the 
account name provided. When he found and used the correct details NS&I 
responded by confirming the details were correct. Mr P also provided screenshots 
from a different bank when he used his own name as the payee and the NS&I sort-
code. He received a message saying, Were checking the account and name details 
with NS&amp;I before showing a no match. Mr P asked that I take in to account the 
time spent providing this information. 
- NS&I provided a final response nine days outside of eight weeks, not four days as 
the investigator said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to understand that the ombudsman service isnt the industry regulator. That
means we dont set the rules for financial businesses or police the industry to make sure 
rules are followed. And we dont have the power to fine or punish businesses. These
are all issues that are dealt with by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). But 
Mr P is correct, the FCA looks at wide-ranging issues impacting many consumers rather 
than individual complaints. Mr P may complain to the FCA, but he wont receive an individual 
response.
My role is to consider individual disputes and reach an outcome I think is fair and reasonable 
in the particular circumstances. So I cant make a finding on how NS&I has decided to 
display information on its website, for example. And its not our role to review or investigate 
this in any detail. 
Mr Ps main complaint point relates to the payee name provided by NS&I and whether this 
was correct. First of all, I should say that NS&I doesnt use confirmation of payee. It has 
explained that its process for receiving faster payments is fully automated and the driving 
factor for applying funds to the correct account is a customers product account number 
which is quoted as a reference. As it doesnt use confirmation of payee the information 
provided in the payee field doesnt impact the transaction. It may be that Mr P didnt use the 
correct income bond account number as the reference, but I have no way to check this.
NS&I accepts that a customer may get a message to say the account cant be checked, or 
something similar, but says this doesnt affect the transaction.  Since Mr P tried to make the 
transfer NS&I has updated its website to say,When you set up your payment, you may receive a message saying 'This account can't be 
checked' or something similar. This doesn't mean the details you are using are wrong but 
please check them carefully.
I appreciate that it would have been helpful if NS&Is website had said this at the time Mr P 
made the transfer. But Im persuaded that NS&I didnt provide incorrect information to Mr P 
and that it doesnt use confirmation of payee. His own bank may not have allowed the 
transaction to be made, but thats not something NS&I can influence. 
When Mr P called NS&I for advice about the problems he was experiencing he was given 
incorrect advice. NS&I has apologised for this and paid Mr P £25 compensation. I appreciate 
how frustrating the call must have been for Mr P but think NS&Is resolution is fair and 
reasonable. 
I turn now to NS&Is delay in providing its final response letter to Mr P. The complaint 
handling rules businesses must adhere to are set out in the FCA handbook and are part of 
the dispute resolution (DISP) rules. These rules give a business a maximum of eight 
weeks in which to investigate a complaint or tell the consumer if its going to take longer than 
that. If the business hasnt issued its final response letter after eight weeks has elapsed the 
complaint can be referred to this service at that point without a final response letter.
Theres no dispute that NS&I issued its final response outside of the eight-week period 
referred to above. But I dont consider this has had an impact on Mr P. I say this because the 
rules allow Mr P to bring a complaint to this service after eight weeks even if he hasnt 
received a final response letter, and this is what he did. Although its not relevant to my 
consideration of this complaint, I also consider its fair to say that the pandemic has affected 
many financial businesses which have had to adapt to new ways of working.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman