DRN-4354692
The complaint
Miss E is complaining about Moneybarn No.1 Limited.  She says they shouldnt have lent to 
her as the loan was unaffordable.
What happened
In November 2016, Miss E took out a conditional loan agreement with Moneybarn, to finance 
the purchase of a car. She paid a deposit of £400 and borrowed £5,850 to pay the cash 
price of £6,250. The agreement required her to make 59 monthly repayments of £240.50. 
Miss E first missed a payment in June 2017 and then continued to struggle to make 
repayments, with the agreement being terminated in September 2018 and the vehicle 
collected the following month.
In October 2020, Miss E complained to Moneybarn, saying they shouldnt have lent to her. 
She said Moneybarn hadnt taken sufficient steps to ensure affordability and that she was 
aware their practices were below the industry standard when it came to assessing income 
and expenditure. Miss E added that shed had to borrow further to be able to make 
repayments against the agreement.  
In response, Moneybarn said theyd done a full credit search with one of the credit reference 
agencies. They said this showed Miss E had some defaulted accounts but the most recent 
was eight months prior and the amounts didnt cause concern. They said the nature of their 
business means that their customers have usually previously experienced financial 
difficulties. They noted Miss Es other credit commitments were being successfully 
maintained. Moneybarn also said theyd checked Miss Es monthly income at the time by 
reviewing two months of bank statements. Theyd calculated her average monthly income 
was around £3,500 and the monthly repayment amount was around 6% of this  on that 
basis it was considered affordable. 
Miss E wasnt happy with Moneybarns response so brought her complaint to our service 
and one of our investigators looked into it. His view was that Moneybarn hadnt carried out 
proportionate checks. If they had, our investigator said, theyd have realised Miss E wouldnt 
be able to make repayments against the agreement in a sustainable way. So he upheld the 
complaint. Moneybarn didnt respond to our investigators view so the complaints come to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Miss Es complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator  Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Moneybarn carry out proportionate checks?
Moneybarn said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Miss Es credit file; and
verified Miss Es income by looking at her bank statements.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including the 
size and length of the loan, the cost of credit, and what Moneybarn found.
Moneybarn havent kept a copy of the credit file they looked at but theyve told us it showed 
Miss E had defaults and delinquent accounts, the most recent of which was eight months 
before the lending decision. Looking at Miss Es copy of her credit file, I can see one account 
defaulted in March 2016 with a balance of £39. She had a payday loan in July 2016 which 
she wasnt making payments on, and shed missed a few of the monthly £279 repayments 
against another loan. The credit file also shows there was a County Court Judgment against 
Miss E in January 2016 for an amount of £565.
From the results of the credit check its fair to say there were indications that at the time of 
the lending Miss E had very recently been in some financial difficulties. It would therefore 
have been proportionate for Moneybarn to gain an understanding of Miss Es expenditure as 
well as her income.
Finally, Moneybarn said they verified Miss Es income by looking at her bank statements. But 
when calculating her average income, Moneybarn included two salary payments from 
September 2016 without asking Miss E why shed received two payments in September and 
just one in October 2016. Im not satisfied this was a reasonable approach.
If Moneybarn had carried out proportionate checks, what would they have found?
Proportionate checks would have involved Moneybarn either checking Miss Es income with 
her or making a more reasonable assumption. And proportionate checks would have 
required Moneybarn to find out more about Miss Es expenditure to determine whether shed 
be able to make the repayments in a sustainable way.
Ive looked at the bank statements Miss E sent to Moneybarn and the statements for her 
other account for September, October and November 2016. Im not saying Moneybarn 
needed to obtain and analyse these as part of their lending checks. But in the absence of 
other information, bank statements provide a good indication of Miss Es income and 
expenditure at the time the lending decision was made.
Excluding the earnings received on 9 September 2016, I can see that on average across 
these two months, Miss E received around £2,478 per month in earnings and benefits. Im 
satisfied its more reasonable to exclude rather than include the 9 September receipt 
because the other receipts from Miss Es employer were on the last day of each month and 
for a similar amount, and there was no receipt at the end of August  so its most likely the 
9 September amount was delayed from 31 August. When looking at Miss Es income, Ive excluded the cash receipts which Miss E told us were 
loans from her father. And Ive excluded other irregular receipts which appear to include a 
tax refund and loans from friends and family. I dont consider any of these to be regular or 
reliable sources of income. So I think it would have been reasonable for Moneybarn to use 
an income figure of £2,478 when assessing affordability.
Looking at Miss Es non-discretionary expenditure, I can see she was making monthly 
payments of around £700 on average for her rent, council tax, energy and bank charges. 
She was spending around £500 per month on groceries and fuel and made a regular 
payment of £300 per month to repay a loan from her mother. Miss E was also making 
repayments on another loan  she paid large lump sums sporadically but was supposed to 
be paying £279 per month. Miss E started making payments on another finance agreement 
on 1 November 2016  these were around £60 per month. And she was paying another 
finance company around £60 per month for equipment rental. Finally, Miss E had 
expenditure of around £250 per month on phones, internet and TV services. 
In total, all of this non-discretionary and committed expenditure adds up to around £2,150. 
Deducting this from Miss Es income of £2,478 left her with monthly disposable income of 
£328 from which to make the repayments to Moneybarn. Once these were made, shed have 
had around £88 disposable income per month. But Miss E doesnt appear to have been 
paying for car insurance or road tax  both of which would be necessary if she took on the 
agreement. Once these costs were covered its likely Miss E would have been left with no 
disposable income, or possible a very small amount. So shed have had nothing to cover any 
emergencies or non-essentials.
In summary, if Moneybarn had done proportionate checks, I dont think they could have 
reasonably decided to lend to Miss E. Once the repayments were accounted for, her income 
only exceeded her non-discretionary expenditure by around £88 per month which doesnt 
seem enough to cover car insurance, road tax, and emergency spending. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Moneybarn should have approved the lending, its not fair for them to charge 
any interest or other charges under the agreement. But Miss E had use of the car for 23 
months, so its fair she pays for that use. There isnt an exact formula for working out what 
fair usage should be. However, in deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the 
valuation of the car when Miss E entered into the agreement, the amount of interest that was 
charged under the agreement, the usage Miss E likely had of the car and what her costs to 
stay mobile might have been had she not entered into this agreement. In doing so, I think a 
fair amount Miss E should pay is £100 for every month she had use of the car.
To settle Miss Es complaint, Moneybarn need to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay unless this has already been done. 
Refund all the payments Miss E has made (including the deposit), less £2,300 for fair 
usage. 
oIf Miss E has paid more than the fair usage figure, Moneybarn should refund 
any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or; 
oIf Miss E has paid less than the fair usage figure, Moneybarn should arrange 
an affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once Moneybarn has received the fair usage amount, they should remove any 
adverse information recorded on Miss Es credit file regarding the agreement.If Moneybarn consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they 
should provide Miss E a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that Miss E can 
reclaim that amount, assuming she is eligible to do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained Im upholding Miss Es complaint. Moneybarn No.1 Limited need to take 
the steps outlined above to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman