DRN-3142991
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, did not fairly 
compensate him when it mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to him alongside a 
credit card. 
What happened
In response to the initial complaint made by Mr S, Barclays did not agree PPI had been mis-
sold. However, it accepted that it should have told Mr S about a high level of commission it 
received from his PPI premiums. On that basis, it offered to refund all of the commission Mr 
S paid that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Mr S did not accept Barclays offer and so he complained to this service. After our 
adjudicator contacted Barclays, it agreed PPI had been mis-sold and it offered to 
compensate Mr S for that mis-sale. Mr S did not accept Barclays compensation offer. He 
said he had requested a calculation from Barclays, which had not been forthcoming. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. He checked the calculation Barclays undertook, and 
he thought it was fair. He sent a copy of that calculation to Mr S. Mr S did not accept our 
adjudicators view. In summary, he said: 
Barclays had not responded to his complaint nor his correspondence in good time 
and that compensation was warranted for those delays because he had been caused 
distress;
Barclays compensation offer was not sufficient; and 
Mr S had not cashed either cheque, so Barclays would need to reissue that 
compensation; 
As the matter could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but I agree with our adjudicator that Barclays calculated PPI 
compensation fairly. I cant reasonably say a further payment is due because of the way 
Barclays handled the complaint. Ill explain why below. 
As the parties agree PPI was mis-sold to Mr S, I dont need to look at how the cover was 
sold. I am looking at whether Barclays fairly compensated Mr S for that mis-sale. 
Did Barclays fairly compensate Mr S? 
When PPI has been mis-sold to a consumer, Id expect the financial business to return that 
person to the position theyd have been in if PPI had never been sold in the first place. 
In this case, as PPI was sold to Mr S alongside a credit card, Id expect Barclays to remove 
the PPI premiums from Mr Ss credit card, along with any additional interest and charges he 
paid because of the PPI. It would then need to add simple interest to compensate Mr S for 
the time he has been out of pocket because of the PPI. 
Looking at Barclays calculation, I can see it had access to Mr Ss monthly statement data. It 
calculated that Mr S paid £39.35 in total for PPI and associated interest. It then calculated 
interest for the period when Mr S had been out of pocket because of PPI at £55.68. It then 
deducted 20% income tax from that interest as required by HM Revenue and Customs.  
Altogether, its offer to Mr S to settle the complaint was £83.90. Im satisfied Barclays offer is 
fair and has been calculated in line with what I would expect in a situation like this. 
The matter has been complicated somewhat because Barclays had already issued a cheque 
to Mr S for £29.11 in respect of its commission offer. It then issued a further cheque for 
£54.37. I understand the first cheque has now expired and that Mr S says he did not receive 
the second cheque. Our adjudicator contacted Barclays to request that the second cheque 
be stopped by Barclays and a cheque reissued to Mr S for the full compensation amount. If it 
hasnt done so already, I require Barclays to comply with our adjudicators request. 
Compensation for distress and inconvenience 
I appreciate Mr S feels strongly that Barclays handled his complaint poorly and that he 
should be compensated for that. But my role in this regard isnt punitive. In other words, I 
could not award compensation to Mr S just to punish Barclays for what he considers to be its 
errors. I have to look at the impact any error of Barclays had on Mr S. It doesnt 
automatically follow that there will be an award of compensation simply because a business 
made an error. 
Mr S says he was distressed by Barclays lack of response to his communication. However, 
he has not set out the impact caused by an error by Barclays, or how its alleged errors 
caused him distress. The evidence Ive seen does not suggest that the impact of Barclays 
alleged errors was greater for Mr S than that which a person would experience in everyday 
life. On that basis, I cant say a compensation payment for distress would be appropriate in 
these circumstances. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, fairly calculated the compensation due to Mr 
S after it mis-sold PPI. If it hasnt done so already, Barclays must make arrangements to pay 
compensation to Mr S as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman