DRN-2099822
The complaint
Mrs Ps representative, a Clams Management Company (CMC), complains on her behalf 
that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Phoenix Life Limited (the business). 
In short, the CMC says:
Considering the investments already held by Mrs G, the recommendation to invest 
another £10,000  into a product with exposure to risk  meant that her wealth was 
exposed to too much risk. 
What happened
In 2000, Mrs P was advised to invest £10,000 into a with-profits bond. The following was 
recorded with regards to her financial circumstances:
Mrs P was 45 years of age and a retired factory worker.
Her attitude to risk was medium and her objective was capital growth.
She had:
o£93,500 invested in equities and shares, including £77,500 in PEPs.
o£3,000 for emergencies and £20,000 in savings.  
The aim of the investment was to diversify her investment holdings and reduce the 
risk of loss of capital. 
After the investment Mrs P would be left with £8,000 in savings, and £3,000 for 
emergencies.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should it be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Prior to the recommendation, Mrs P held £93,500 in equites and shares, and £23,000 
on deposit. This meant that 80% of her available wealth was already exposed to risk.
It was recorded that Mrs P was concerned that so much of her wealth was exposed 
to risk and wanted to diversify her investments in order to reduce the risk to her 
capital. 
Some of her investments were high risk and that the recommendation to invest in the 
with-profits bond was classed as a lower risk investment. However, lowering her 
portfolios risk still increased her overall exposure to risk. 
The recommendation indirectly invested in equities, bonds and property, increasing 
her overall exposure to risk to 89% rather than reducing it. 
Overall too much of her wealth was invested in products exposed to risk. 
A recommendation to invest in a fixed-rate bond wouldve been suitable given her 
circumstances. 
If some of her higher-risk equity holdings had been moved into the with-profits bond 
and/or it had been capital guaranteed, then the situation mightve been different. But 
this wasn't the case here, and the recommendation increased her exposure to risk.
The business disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In summary, it said:
The recommendation was suitable given Mrs Ps recorded objectives. 
The recommendation met her needs for savings and investment and was affordable. 
Mrs P had £3,000 put aside for emergencies, and £20,000 in a building society 
account from which she invested £10,000 in the plan, and £2,000 in a pension policy.  
She had no mortgage and was left with a healthy balance on deposit. 
Although her attitude to risk was established as medium she was advised to invest 
in a unitised with-profits fund considered a low risk investment.    
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the business says Im not 
persuaded that the recommendation to invest another £10,000 in a with-profits bond was 
suitable in the circumstances.  
I note that Mrs P already had roughly 80% of her money in risk-based investments. The 
recommendation  primarily designed to diversify her investments  resulted in that figure 
increasing. 
Im mindful that Mrs P wanted to invest for the future. I also note that she wanted to diversify 
her investments with a view to reducing her overall exposure to risk. But in the 
circumstances, I dont think  for the reason given above  the recommendation met that 
objective. 
I appreciate that whilst the recommendation reduced the portfolio risk, it still increased 
Mrs Ps overall exposure to risk, which I dont think is what she wanted. 
Whilst its fair to say certain questions were asked of Mrs P to arrive at the conclusion that 
she was a medium risk investor, Im uncertain as to the reasoning behind this conclusion, 
notwithstanding her investment experience. 
Im not persuaded that Mrs P wanted to take any risk with her new investment and certainly 
not if there wasnt change within her existing portfolio to offset the additional risk she was 
about to take. 
I note Mrs P was 45 years of age, widowed and retired. She also had two financially 
dependent sons living at home. I note it was incorrectly recorded that she had no children, 
so its possible this may have adversely impacted the advisers recommendation. 
I note in the final response letter the business said that "other types of investment were 
discussed, however the with profit bond was recommended to avoid any undue investment 
risk". 
Like the investigator, I also think that this suggests the other investments discussed by the 
adviser were probably higher risk investments, as the with-profits bond was recommended to avoid further (undue) risk. Ive also seen nothing to suggest that fixed-rate bonds or other 
low risk non-equity-based investments were discussed.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance I agree with the investigator that in order to 
reduce Mrs Ps overall exposure to risk I dont think the business shouldve advised her to 
take any risk with the £10,000. On balance Im persuaded that this wouldve helped diversify 
her portfolio and reduce her overall exposure to risk.
Putting things right
By way of redress I think Phoenix Life Limited should compare the performance of the actual 
investment against the performance of the Bank of England average return from fixed-rate 
bonds with 12  17 months maturity. If the latter is greater, Phoenix Life Limited should pay 
the difference with 8% simple interest from the investment surrender date to the date of 
payment date.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Phoenix Life Limited should calculate redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman