DRN-2623461
The complaint
Mr H complains that Schroder Unit Trusts Limited (Schroder) has discriminated against him 
and caused him to waste both time and resources. And he should be fairly compensated for 
this.
What happened
On 11 May 2020 Schroder sent Mr H a letter in which it said that it had been unable to 
achieve, through electronic data sources (eg the electoral role), a sufficient level of 
verification for him and what further action was now required.
On 14 May 2020 Mr H sent Schroder a fax in which he said he viewed its 11 May 2020 
statement that it had been unable to verify him to be discriminatory on the grounds of his 
ethnicity and utter time wasting nonsense. He also said that he would like details of what 
efforts Schroder had gone to verify his identity and for his concerns to be treated as a 
complaint.
On 20 May 2020 Schroder sent Mr H a letter in which it said had now been able to 
electronically verify him and no further action was required.
On 29 May 2020, and unhappy with the service he had been provided by Schroder, Mr H 
referred a complaint to our service for investigation.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that although 
she was satisfied there had been no discrimination on the part of Schroder its actions (and 
inactions) had caused Mr H a degree of distress and inconvenience for which he should be 
paid £100 in compensation.
Schroder agreed, but Mr H didnt. Therefore, this complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says he feels Schroder has discriminated against him given the problems he has 
experienced. I can understand why Mr H feels this way but having looked at all the evidence 
I dont think Schroder has done so. I hope that it helps Mr H to know that someone impartial 
and independent has looked into his concerns. However, having said this, I find that 
Schroder:
has been unable to evidence, or even confirm, what checks it undertook to try and 
identify Mr H prior to it sending him its letter dated 11 May 2020
has been unable to explain why it felt a check on Mr Hs identity was necessary in 
May 2020, especially given that two months earlier (in March 2020) it had sent Mr H 
a list of parties who might have had access to his personal information in their 
capacity as data processors for it
didnt answer Mr Hs question in his fax of 14 May 2020 as to what efforts it had gone 
to verify his identity 
didnt treat Mr Hs fax of 14 May 2020 as a complaint as Mr H asked it to be
Given what I say above, what Im now required to do is to decide what, if anything, Schroder 
should have to do to fairly and reasonably compensate Mr H.
Now I accept Mr H might disagree but given how quickly Schroder informed him that it had 
been able to electronically identify him after all, and that no further action on his part was 
required, I find £100 represents an appropriate sum for it to have to pay by way of 
compensation.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Schroder Unit Trusts Limited must pay Mr H, to the extent it hasnt 
done so already, £100 in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman