DRN-1809323
The complaint
Ms L complained that Advantage mishandled her claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms Ls car was damaged in an incident while it was parked and unoccupied. Advantage 
declared that it was beyond economic repair and offered her its market value. She said that 
they pressurised her into accepting that and wouldnt speak to her son, who was present, 
instead though she gave them permission. Advantage then paid her the settlement amount 
before the agreed date. This meant she was left without a car as she had to return her 
replacement hire car.
She also said that Advantage took too long to finalise the claim. So it was still open when her 
policy came up for renewal in September and this increased her premium with her new 
insurer. She had to pay extra and wait for a refund after Advantage deemed the claim to be 
non-fault. She said they wrongly reduced her no claims discount (NCD) at renewal, and this 
also impacted her new premium. She felt that the lawyers who were seeking recovery of her 
uninsured losses delayed too. She had to keep chasing Advantage and the lawyers for 
updates on these matters. She said that Advantages actions caused her emotional and 
financial stress which caused her poor health and her partner to leave her.
Advantage said they finalised her policy claim in October 2019 and so it was closed then as 
non-fault because theyd recovered their costs.  They said they werent responsible for her 
uninsured losses claim run by the lawyers, as that was a separate product outside her 
policy. And so they werent responsible for the service she received from the lawyers. They 
explained that they could pass on to them any issues on her behalf, but if she had a 
complaint about their service, shed have to raise it with them separately. The investigator 
explained that this service doesnt have jurisdiction to investigate any complaint about the 
lawyers service. Thats correct and so I dont comment on that issue here. 
Advantage thought that during the process of settlement they had explained to Ms L her 
options regarding their decision about her car being uneconomical to repair. They felt that 
their written records showed that. However they couldnt find the recording of the call she 
mentioned. They explained that because her car hire had been provided though credit hire 
agreement, that had to stop when they settled the claim, to avoid incurring further costs. But 
they accepted that they should have explained that to her in advance.  They should also 
have let her know how having an open claim would impact the policy and potentially the cost 
of insurance with a new insurer. But they said they resolved the NCD issue and so that 
shouldnt have impacted her insurance cost.
They accepted that they had not managed her expectations well or kept her informed and 
that there were some service failings. So they apologised and offered her a total of £350 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
But she didnt think that went far enough. She said she was upset that Advantage wouldnt 
let her son speak for her, and their subsequent actions had caused her daily anxiety and the 
whole experience had affected her personal relationships.
The investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged that 
Advantage had accepted their failings and upheld the complaint. But she didnt think their 
compensation considered the significant impact Advantages actions had on Ms L. She 
thought that they should pay Ms L additional compensation of £100, making it £450.
Advantage didnt agree and so Ive been asked to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only issue in dispute is the amount of compensation. Ms L didnt think £350 was enough 
for her distress and inconvenience.  But Advantage felt that they had considered the impact 
on her heath and family relationships and that it did fairly reflect the inconvenience she 
experienced while her claim was being processed.
Our starting point is that there will be some stress for a consumer in dealing with an accident 
claim, even if theyre not at fault. And while obviously distress and inconvenience is very 
subjective, we do expect compensation to reflect the impact on a consumer as an individual.
Its clear from what Ms L says that she was very upset by the phone call in which she felt 
Advantage bullied her. She says that she became so upset during that call that she was 
unable to continue with it, but despite that, Advantage would not talk to her son on her 
behalf. Its clear that she felt this set the tone for the rest of her dealings with Advantage. 
And that it caused her a lot of anxiety, though she had not previously suffered from that.
I think that Advantages admitted failure to keep her updated or to explain what should 
happen and keep her informed, did cause her anxiety and financial stress. And that this at 
the very least imposed another stress on top of relationship issues.  And I think that could 
have been avoided if Advantage had explained the process to her and kept her updated 
about what was happening. 
Putting things right
And so I do think that Advantages actions made things worse for Ms L and so I agree that 
an extra payment of £100 on top of what they had already offered her, is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Pay Ms L total compensation of £450 for her distress and inconvenience, less any 
compensation amount that they have already paid her.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2020.
Advantage must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Ms 
L accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.If Advantage considers that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Ms L how much they have taken off. They 
should also give Ms L a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
