DRN-3176039
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain Hoist Finance UK Limited has said they owe money for a debt after 
telling them all debts had been repaid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S were in a debt management plan with a company Ill call P for 14 years. Hoist 
was one of the creditors. Three accounts with Hoist were closed in February 2020, and in 
January 2021 they were able to clear the remaining debts with all their creditors, including 
Hoist.
At this point, Mr and Mrs S were told all debts with Hoist had been repaid. So, they were 
shocked when P told them Hoist had admitted making an error  and actually they still owed 
it money. Mr and Mrs S have said theyve written to Hoist on multiple occasions with no 
reply, but it keeps ringing them  when they want a reply in writing, so theyve got a paper 
trail of whats happened. As a result of this, they complained.
Hoist replied to Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and said it didnt uphold their complaint. It said the 
accounts hadnt ever been settled, and suggested Mr and Mrs S speak to P about whats 
happened. It said itd still accept a lower amount to settle the debts. Hoist also said if Mr and 
Mrs S believe the accounts were settled, it suggested they speak with P or send it proof of 
the settlement.
Unhappy with that, Mr and Mrs S asked us to look into things. They said Hoist were lying as 
P had told them the account were cleared. They said when they inherited some money, they 
paid off all outstanding debts with Hoist, but not these ones, because theyd already been 
closed. Mr and Mrs S provided emails from P  where P said Hoist had admitted making a 
mistake to them. They said Hoist should write off the debt.
One of our Investigators considered all the evidence, and overall felt Hoist had made an 
error, but didnt think it fair to expect it to write off the debt. Instead, he felt £150 
compensation was fair. Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with this  they said theyd have preferred 
at least 50% of the debt written off. Hoist also didnt agree with this  it said itd made a small 
mistake, but P was more at fault for whatd happened. It said it felt an apology was enough.
As our Investigator remained of the opinion compensation of £150 was fair, the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to make it clear Im only considering the actions of Hoist in this complaint. I cant 
make any findings against P.
From the information on file it seems Hoist removed three of Mr and Mrs Ss accounts in 
February 2020. Because of that, these accounts werent included in the settlement Mr and 
Mrs P made in January 2021 through P  so the accounts werent paid off.
Ive seen an email from Hoist to P on 9 March 2021 saying The spreadsheet error was our 
fault, it was due to a manual update error. Again I apologise for the inconvenience caused. 
However the offers were accepted on the spreadsheet. We would not accept offers with a 
zero balance and should have been queried in February 2020.
So, Hoist has accepted its made a mistake. Based on all the information I have, it seems 
likely to me had this mistake not happened, these accounts would have been included in the 
January 2021 settlement. So, while its possible P may have contributed to some of Mr and 
Mrs Ss frustration as Hoist has suggested, I can only look at the impact of Hoists actions.
Hoist has clearly accepted it made a mistake, and I think thats had an impact on Mr and 
Mrs S. In addition, Hoist hasnt acknowledged this error when Mr and Mrs S raised their 
complaint. I think by not giving them clear information, Hoist have exacerbated a situation it 
created in the first place.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ss original request for the debt to be written off, as they believed itd 
been settled in February 2020  and when replying to our Investigators outcome some 
months later that theyd at least expect 50% off given the errors. But our service operates on 
a fair and reasonable remit. Mr and Mrs S dont dispute they took out the original lending that 
led to this debt, so it then isnt unfair for them to be expected to have to repay it. And I cant 
require Hoist to make incorrect information true  Hoist said  the debt had been settled when 
it contacted P in February 2020, but this was said in error. At the time as I understand it, no 
offers had been made by Mr and Mrs S, either directly or through P, to settle these accounts. 
So, it perhaps wouldnt have been unreasonable for Mr and Mrs S to have queried why they 
were told these accounts were settled when no offers had been made by them to do so.
Overall, I dont think itd be fair for me to require Hoist to write off or reduce the debt. Instead, 
I need to think about the impact of the incorrect information on Mr and Mrs S. As our 
Investigator pointed out, and Ive mentioned above, Hoist knew itd made an error in 
March 2021. But, in its response to Mr and Mrs S two months later, didnt say anything about 
this. I do think Hoists error was the catalyst for this situation  where Mr and Mrs S found 
out over a year later, they owed more money than they thought. But I think thats mitigated 
because they could have asked why Hoist were writing off debts totalling over £3,000 and 
didnt.
Taking everything into account, I think the £150 our Investigator recommended is a fair and 
reasonable amount to resolve this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint and require Hoist Finance UK 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman