DRN-3469459
The complaint
Mr L says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about 3 loans provided by Lending Stream to Mr L. These are:
Number Date Amount Term in 
monthsMonthly 
repaymentDate repaid
1 20/08/2021 210 6 £73.09 25/02/2022
2 20/10/2021 150 6 £69.55 Outstanding
3 01/11/2021 100 6 £64.33 Outstanding 
Lending Stream has made an offer to compensate Mr L for providing loan 3 to him. Its offer 
looks in line with how our service would expect a business to calculate compensation if it 
was required to do so. As this is the case and there is no dispute still regarding this loan, I 
will also do the same as the investigator and look into loans 1 and 2 only. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ls complaint and thought Lending Stream hadnt done 
anything wrong when it agreed to lend loans 1 and 2. Mr L disagreed, and the complaint was 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ls complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Lending Stream complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr L would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way and without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr L wouldve been able to do so?
2.Did Lending Stream act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Lending Stream to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ls ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Lending Stream had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and cause significant adverse consequences for Mr 
L. In practice this meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr L undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Lending Stream to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr L. Checks 
also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Did Lending Stream complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr L 
would be able to repay loans 1 and 2 without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
Lending Stream has provided evidence to show that before lending to Mr L on each 
occasion it carried out a credit check and asked him for details about his income and 
expenditure. It then calculated what it thought was Mr Ls disposable income to see if the 
loan repayments were affordable. Based on those checks Lending Stream thought it was fair 
to provide loans 1 and 2.
Based on the amount that Mr L borrowed on each occasion, the repayment and term of loan, 
I think the checks were reasonable and proportionate. The checks carried out for loans 1 
and 2 suggested to Lending Stream the loans were affordable, and Mr L could sustain the 
repayments over the term. With the information it had in front of it, it would have seen that 
the repayments for these loans were sustainably affordable. 
I note that when Mr L took out loan 2, he was still also repaying the first loan. But the 
repayments did seem affordable for him based on Lending Streams proportionate checks. 
There was also nothing in each credit search that ought to have raised any concerns with 
Lending Stream either. So, I dont think there was anything raised within the information it 
had in front of it, that meant it should have either done more or not granted the loans. Did Lending Stream act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr L has recently told our service that he was a vulnerable customer at the time each loan 
was granted. He has provided reasons why he thinks this is the case. I have looked through 
the documentation provided by both parties and I cant see that this was mentioned or raised 
by Mr L during the application process for any of the loans. I also cant see with what 
Lending Stream had in front of it, how it would be able to find this out either. So I dont think 
Lending Stream did anything wrong here as this is not something it knew about or ought to 
have known about from what it was told and the information it gathered at the time.
Ive also thought about whether Lending Stream acted unfairly in some other way and I 
havent seen any evidence that it did.
Finally, Lending Stream has offered to pay compensation for providing Loan 3 to Mr L. I will 
now leave it to Lending Stream to make contact with Mr L and provide details of that offer to 
him. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint about Loans 1 and 2. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman