DRN-4415076
The complaint
Mr A complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited hasnt offered a fair value for his car 
following its theft.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr A insured his car with Admiral under a motor insurance policy. 
In June 2023, Mr As car was stolen. Admiral offered £5,956.50 to settle the claim, less any 
deductibles such as Mr As excess. The amount offered was calculated as £6,785 for the 
market value with 10% of the value deducted as Mr As car didnt have a valid MOT at the 
time it was stolen.
Mr A wasnt happy, so he complained but Admiral didnt change its decision.
Mr A brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. He said he couldnt 
replace his vehicle like for like with the amount Admiral offered and sent adverts to this 
service for similar cars including those with a higher mileage which supported this. 
An Investigator at this service looked into matters and issued a view Admiral needed to pay 
more to Mr A  a further £3,783.15 plus interest. This is because they ran their own 
valuations using the motor trade guides, based on the more likely mileage of Mr As car, 
which gave four further valuations. Of those valuations, there were two at the higher end and 
two at the lower end. Due to the difference between the spread of the two sets of valuations, 
the Investigator found the higher values were more likely to be indicative of a fair market 
value. This is because the adverts sent to this service by Mr A and those referred to in one 
of the guides supported the higher end. So, they recommended Admiral pay an average of 
the two valuations at the higher end, £9,794.50. The Investigator considered a deduction of 
the cost of a MOT, £54.85, was fair and reasonable reducing the market value to £9,739.65.
Mr A accepted the recommendation. Admiral agreed it used the wrong mileage but didnt 
agree with the Investigators method of calculating a fair value. Instead, it offered to pay an 
average of the four guides. It considered the deduction of 10% for no MOT was fair and 
referred to policy terms which it said Mr A had breached.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
It is my role is to decide whether Admiral has applied the policy terms and conditions when 
reaching its market value and whether it has done so in a fair and reasonable way. Based on 
what Ive seen, I dont think it has. 
Where a car has been damaged, its usual for the insurer to pay the consumer the market 
value of the vehicle immediately before the loss. This is what Mr As policy provides. It 
defines the market value as follows. 
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of 
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on 
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
This means Admiral will pay the value of the car immediately before the accident which, 
here, it determined to be £5,956.50. Admiral referred to two trade guides and made an offer 
to Mr A of the average although, since the matter has been viewed by the Investigator, it has 
realised a mistake was made in the mileage it used for those valuations. 
We use the same trade guides  in addition to two others - to help decide if a settlement 
offer is fair when valuing second-hand vehicles. In the absence of other evidence, we may 
find these guides to be persuasive evidence of market value as their valuations are based on 
nationwide research of likely sales figures. 
The four motor trade guides obtained recently by this service are for cars of the same make, 
model, age and mileage as Mr As at the date of loss. These gave valuation figures of 
£8,475, £8,910, £9,652 and £9,937. Ive also seen the adverts for cars similar to Mr As, both 
online as well as from one of the motor trade guides, which are in the region of £9,490 (with 
slightly higher mileage), £10,995, £10,845, £11,490 and £11,499. 
In light of this, I dont consider Admiral has demonstrated it has acted fairly in reaching the 
value it has. I say this because Im more persuaded an average of the two higher guides 
(£9,794.50) is a fairer reflection of market value than the offer made by Admiral. This is 
because Im satisfied this is more comparable with the price of similar vehicles on sale in 
July (the date adverts were sent to this service by Mr A) and, more recently, from the trade 
guide which lists them. And I note Admiral hasnt provided evidence to challenge this. Taking 
all the above into account, Im satisfied the valuation reached by the Investigator of 
£9,794.50 is a fair reflection of market value at the time directly before the loss. 
Ive then considered the deduction for the MOT. Admiral says it couldve repudiated the 
contract because of Mr As breach of the policy terms. As it didnt, a deduction of 10% is fair 
in as this represents the reduced value of the vehicle. But I dont see things the same. 
Admiral didnt repudiate the contract. Instead, it accepted the claim and paid what it 
considered the market value to be to Mr A, thus affirming the contract. Having done so, I 
agree an appropriate deduction for the lack of MOT can be made. However, whilst I take into 
account the policy terms, I dont consider its fair and reasonable to say a breach of them  
which B has chosen not to act on  should be used to reduce the value of the car by a set 
percentage which equates to a substantial reduction in the settlement sum. Further, no 
evidence has been provided to demonstrate why 10% is a fair and reasonable deduction to 
make. So, taking everything into account, I consider its fair to deduct the cost of an MOT 
(£54.85). 
In summary, Im not satisfied Admirals offer for the market value of Mr As car was fair 
according to the terms and conditions of the policy. It now needs to put things right.Putting things right
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay Mr A the following.
1. The difference between:
a. £5,956.50 being the amount it valued his car at (£6,785) less 10% for the lack 
of MOT; and 
b. £9,739.65 which is the average of the two higher guides (£9,794.50) less the 
cost of an MOT £54.85. 
I calculate this to be a further payment due from Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to Mr A of £3,783.15.
2. 8% simple interest on the above amount payable one month from the date the claim 
was made up to the date of actual payment (making an appropriate reduction for any 
interim payments made, on the date they were made).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited needs to do the things set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman