DRN-2227885
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy that Allianz Insurance Plc turned down a claim under her pet insurance 
policy.
What happened
Miss K made a claim with Allianz after her dog, who Ill refer to as F in this decision, was 
taken to the vet and diagnosed with an allergy. 
Allianz turned down the claim saying this wasnt covered under the policy as F had first 
showed signs of the condition more than 12 months prior to the claim being made. Miss K 
was unhappy with this so brought her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the claim. After looking at the evidence he thought it was 
clear that signs of the allergy were present 12 months before the claim was made so Allianz 
acted fairly when turning down the claim. Miss K remained unhappy saying that she had 
previously funded treatment for F and that she didnt know she had to declare this on 
renewal. So, the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurance policies cant and dont cover every eventuality. Insurers are free to decide what 
events they wish to provide cover for under a policy. They are also free to include exclusions 
in policies for events they dont want to cover. Here the policy only covers an injury or illness 
for 12 months.  The 12 month time limit starts from when the injury happens or the first signs 
of the illness are seen.   
Looking at the medical notes for F its clear there were visits to the vet from 2015 to 2019. In 
September 2015 one of the notes says that allergies were discussed as a likely cause of the 
skin irritation F was having. And in April 2019 the notes say that the symptoms F displayed 
were very likely [an] allergy related problem.
Miss K made the claim for F in July 2020 relating to allergies which is more than 12 months 
after the first signs of allergy problems can be seen in the medical notes. At the earliest the 
signs were first displayed in 2015, and its clear that in April 2019 the vet thought allergies 
were likely the problem.
Looking at the evidence Im satisfied Allianz fairly turned down the claim as signs of allergy 
were showing 12 months before the claim was made, and this isnt covered under the policy. 
But following the policy terms isnt always enough. I also expect Allianz to treat Miss K fairly 
and reasonably. Considering everything thats happened I think they have, and I will explain 
why.
The policy documents given to Miss K when the policy was taken out explain the 12 month 
time limit. Im happy this information is prominent in the documents and not hidden away in 
the fine print. So I think Allianz made clear from the start how the policy works.
Each time the policy renewed Allianz sent Miss K documents with updated information. Part 
of the renewal documentation says Important information we need to know about you and 
your pet. This asks the question Is there anything about your pets health that you havent 
claimed for or already told us about? It goes on the say that if the pet has shown any sign of 
illness or being unwell, or if it has been seen by a vet for any reason other than routine 
vaccinations and neutering, that the policy holder must let Allianz know. 
Its clear from the medical notes that F was seen by a vet on several occasions and given 
treatment. Allianz wasnt told about these visits as the renewal documentation says they 
shouldve been.
Miss K says that she didnt report the vet visits and treatment on renewal because she was 
funding the bills herself and she didnt think the condition would be potentially ongoing. I can 
see why Miss K thinks this way, and can understand her reasoning of wanting to do the best 
thing for F. However the renewal documentation is clear that any illness or vet visit must be 
declared; but this didnt happen.
Having looked at all the information Im satisfied Allianz considered the evidence in a fair and 
reasonable way. Im happy Allianz interpreted the medical information about F fairly when 
saying there were signs or symptoms of allergies 12 months before the claim was made. Im 
also satisfied that the policy documents explain the 12 month time limit, and that the renewal 
documents are clear about the need to declare any vet visits or illnesses. 
Thats not to say that Miss K hasnt suffered a financial cost, and that it hasnt been a difficult 
time; it clearly has. But Allianz looked at the medical information for F and fairly turned down 
the claim as what happened isnt covered by the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman