DRN-1354481
 
The complaint
Mr E complains that Ageas Insurance Limited has turned down a storm damage claim he 
made on his home insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr E got back from a holiday to find he couldnt get into his fitted wardrobe. He 
called out someone to look into this. Mr Es contractor suggested the damage was down to 
ingress of water, which had affected the wardrobe.  So Mr E made a claim on his home 
insurance policy.
Ageas asked a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyor didnt think the damage was 
down to a one-off event of storm. Its report said a roof cam had highlighted poor roof repairs 
and that the damage wasnt covered by the policy. So Ageas turned down the claim. It said 
wear and tear was specifically excluded by the policy terms. Mr E wasnt happy with Ageas 
decision and asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Es complaint should be upheld. He thought it was fair for 
Ageas to rely on the surveyors report to turn down Mr Es claim. He didnt think water 
ingress which happened over a long period of time was a one-off event covered by the 
policy.
Mr E disagreed with the investigator. He sent in an email from a roofer saying that a dark 
patch on the roof was a build-up of material, not a missing piece of material. So the 
investigator sent this information on to Ageas for it to consider. 
Ageas didnt change its mind. It said it could clearly see a missing tile in the roof photos and 
a build-up of silt in the valley. It said this silt could be sitting in the valley for a number of 
reasons. It maintained this wasnt a one-off event of storm, but an ongoing issue. 
Our investigator still thought it was reasonable for Ageas to turn down Mr Es claim. Mr E 
remained unhappy. He said there was no way he couldve known water was getting in until 
the wardrobe doors didnt open. 
Mr E spoke with Ageas again, which told him his claim had also been turned down because 
there werent prevailing storm conditions at the time of the claim. Our investigator got in 
touch with Mr E and said that while thered been unusually heavy rains a few weeks before, 
these hadnt been accompanied by high winds.  He explained that while water ingress was 
consistent with storm damage, a missing tile or silt build-up wouldnt be. And he thought the 
heavy rains had simply highlighted the existing damage to the roof, rather than being the 
main cause of it. So he still didnt think Mr Es complaint should succeed.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. While Im sorry to disappoint Mr E, I think 
Ageas has treated him fairly. Ill explain why.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. 
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
Ageas hasnt defined what it means by a storm in the buildings section of Mr Es policy. 
Where an insurer hasnt included a definition of what a storm is in its policy wording, wed 
generally say that a storm involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow.  
So this is what Ive thought about when deciding whether there were storm conditions on or 
around the date of Mr Es claim.
Ive carefully considered local weather reports for a few weeks around the time of the claim 
to see if there were prevailing storm conditions. The strongest reported gust of wind was 
35mph, in mid June which I dont consider to be a storm force wind. So there was nothing in 
the few months before the claim to suggest there were violent winds, accompanied by rain, 
hail or snow.
There was heavy rainfall recorded over a 24-hour period about three weeks before Mr E 
made the claim; but it doesnt look like storm force winds accompanied it. Its possible 
though that this rainfall could be considered as being of sufficient intensity to be considered 
a storm, so Ive gone on to look at the other two questions. 
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Internal water damage caused by water ingress can be consistent with unusually intense 
rain. However, I dont think a missing tile or build up of silt would be  especially when there 
were no storm force winds accompanying the rainfall.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
Ive looked very carefully at the evidence weve been provided with when considering this 
question. I need to be satisfied that the storm was the main cause of the damage  that it 
didnt simply highlight existing problems with the roof.
Mr E has sent us a copy of a report from his own roofer. This says: After recent inspection of 
gutter the dark area as shown on photographs was a build up of silt and not a missing piece 
of material. Ive thought carefully about this report, because Im conscious that Mr Es 
builder had the chance to inspect the roof. Ive also noted though that Mr Es builder hasnt 
stated what he thought did cause the damage  he simply said that the dark area was a silt 
build-up.Ageas surveyor didnt think storm was the main cause of the damage. The surveyors report 
said: The damage has been caused by an ongoing ingress of rain from the roof due to wear 
and tear and poor works to the valley.
The surveyor expanded on their comments in response to Mr Es roofers report. They said:
We can clearly see the missing tile and the debris/silt within the gutter-valley. This builds up 
in time as the water washes away the dirt from the roof and this can be sitting in the gutter-
valley for a number of reasons: incorrect slope on the valley gutter, something blocking the 
gutter which is no longer there, rain not being heavy enough to wash this away.
The damage to the roof has not happened in an one off event of storm, it is an ongoing issue 
with the roof that allowed water to ingress over time, our surveyor has advised that the 
internal damage to the ceiling within the wardrobe it is a long term ingress.
Ive seen a copy of the photo of Mr Es roof. It does appear that there is a missing tile on the 
roof, as well as a build up of silt. As Ive said above, I dont think a wet storm is likely to have 
caused a tile to become dislodged from the roof. And I dont think that overall, the surveyors 
findings are inconsistent with Mr Es roofers, as both acknowledge the build up of silt on the 
roof.
Ive carefully considered both pieces of expert evidence. Having done so though, Im more 
persuaded by Ageas surveyor. Theyve provided detailed findings and a likely cause of 
damage. The photographs also support the findings the surveyor made. So, on balance, I 
dont think the wet storm conditions were the main cause of the damage.  I think the damage 
was most likely down to wear and tear and poor workmanship.
Mr Es told us he had no way of knowing the water was getting in, because it was behind a 
fitted wardrobe. I appreciate how disappointing it must be to learn that his claim isnt covered 
by his policy. But Mr Es policy specifically excludes damage thats caused by wear and tear 
under the storm section of his home insurance policy. So while I sympathise with Mr Es 
position, I think it was fair for Ageas to turn down his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman