DRN-2568481
The complaint
Mrs E complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC failed to notify her that agents would visit her 
home when seeking repayment of a debt. She further complains that the agents discussed 
details of the debt with a third party. She wants an apology and compensation. 
What happened
Mrs E told us that she took out a loan in 2016. But that she thought all her payments on the 
debt had been made by 2017. She said that she had updated her email address to Avant in 
2017 but didnt receive any letters or calls from Avant until debt collection agents called at 
her home. She states that the agents spoke about the debt with her husband  without 
authority  and that this had resulted in difficulties within the family.
Avant told us it had used the contact details it had on file for Mrs E. And that it had attempted 
emails and calls to alert her to the visit of the agents and the outstanding debt. It said that 
any complaint about what was discussed with Mrs Es husband should be directed to the 
agents.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 December 2020. I said that I intended 
to uphold the complaint. And that I was satisfied to a high degree of probability that the 
agents which Avant had appointed had discussed the loan with Mrs Es husband without her 
authority. And that I intended to make an award of compensation. 
But that in view of the breakdown in understanding between Avant and Mrs E I thought it 
was best that the amount I was proposing could be used towards repaying the account. This 
could then be closed.
[Avant replied to my provisional decision and said that if Mrs E paid the missing instalment of 
£98.10 it would waive the arrears and close the account. Mrs E hasnt replied.
I thank Avant for its response. But for the reasons Ill explain Im going to broadly maintain 
the terms I set out in my provisional decision. Ill give my reasons in the final decision which 
is set out below.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs E would be upset at debt collection agents calling at her home if she 
hadnt received advance notice. And that by discussing the details of the debt with her 
husband  without her permission - it would potentially have been the source of considerable 
distress and embarrassment.
Mrs Es complaint comprises of two main elements. Firstly that Avant didnt update her 
details and contact her about the debt or the intended visit of its agents. And that those 
agents discussed details of her debt with her husband without her authority.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Ill deal with each of the issues separately.
Mrs Es loan required her to make 12 payments of about £98. She made all the required 
payments both before and after the one missed payment in April 2019. Why the direct debit 
failed Im unable to say  but it did.
It seems that during early 2017 Miss E started using a new email address. And that Avant 
contacted her asking her to confirm if this was the email address that she wished in future to 
use. I cant see that it received any reply. And it seems that Avant didnt update its records 
without the confirmation.
Whilst Avant has accepted it couldve done more to contact Mrs E about the debt, its also 
the responsibility of the borrower to ensure that all payments have been made. So whilst Im 
in no doubt that Mrs E assumed the direct debit had gone through - it was still up to her to 
check. Had she done so, no doubt the matter would have been amicably resolved by the 
payment being made. As all the other payments were made theres no reason to suppose 
the missing payment arose from anything other than an oversight.
I can see how the misunderstanding over the email address occurred. Its most unfortunate 
that it led to the breakdown in contact and the subsequent events this caused. I dont see 
any benefit in trying to apportion responsibility at this stage. All I will say is that Avant tried to 
contact Mrs E but that she didnt receive those communications.
The second part of her complaint is, I feel, more serious. It was unfortunate that the 
problems with contact meant that Avant felt it necessary to send agents to visit Mrs Es 
home address. But we wouldnt say this was necessarily wrong if all other attempts at 
contact had failed. And prior notice of the visit had been sent. Unfortunately, the nature of 
the misunderstanding meant that Mrs E didnt receive contact or advance notice of the visit.
It would, no doubt, still have come as a shock even had she been able to deal with it herself. 
But Mrs E states the agents discussed the debt with her husband. I accept this occurred.
In its latest response letter Avant appears now to accept that that it is responsible for the 
actions of those it appoints to chase debts on its behalf. This accords with the requirements 
of the relevant rules which apply to firms and debt collecting activities and which are 
contained in The Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC).
These include:
CONC 1.2.2 R
A firm must:
(1) ensure that its employees and agents comply with CONC; and(2) take reasonable steps to ensure that other persons acting on its behalf comply with 
CONC.
CONC 1.2.3
(1) Although CONC does not apply directly to a firms appointed representatives, a firm will 
always be responsible for the acts and omissions of its appointed representatives in carrying 
on business for which the firm has accepted responsibility (section 39(3) the Act). In 
determining whether a firm has complied with any provision of CONC, anything done or 
omitted by a firms appointed representative (when acting as such) will be treated as having 
been done or omitted by the firm (section 39(4) of the Act).
CONC 1.2.4
The credit-related regulated activities comprise consumer credit lending, credit broking, debt 
counselling, debt adjusting, debt administration, debt collecting,
CONC 7.1.3
1) In accordance with CONC 1.2.2 R firms must ensure that their employees and agents 
comply with CONC and must take reasonable steps to ensure that other persons acting on 
the firms behalf act in accordance with CONC.
(2) The rule in CONC 1.2.2 R is particularly important in relation to the requirements in 
CONC 7, for example, in dealing with an individual from whom the person referred to in the 
rule is seeking to collect a debt.
CONC 7.9.6
A firm must not unfairly disclose or threaten to disclose information relating to the customers 
debt to a third party.
CONC 7.9.7
When contacting a customer:
(1) a firm must ensure that it does not act in a way likely to be publicly embarrassing to the 
customer; and
(2) a firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that third parties do not become aware that 
the customer is being pursued in respect of a debt
Its clear from the above that as Avant chose to appoint agents to seek to collect this debt on 
its behalf, it is responsible for the actions of those agents. Whether the agents are also liable 
is immaterial to this complaint as its brought only against Avant.
Avant has suggested that if Mrs E repays the missing instalment of £98.10 it will remove all 
other charges and interest and close the account. Ive been advised by Avant that the 
current balance at the time of issuing this decision is £257.79.
I feel Mrs Es experienced considerable embarrassment and that this was almost entirely 
avoidable. Id indicated in my provisional decision that the level of compensation I was 
considering for the distress and inconvenience caused was between £250 - £350.
Usually wed expect an award for distress and inconvenience to be paid separately. And not 
be used towards repaying an account unless the customer specifically requested this. But I think in the current circumstances with the debt now approaching two years old and Mrs E 
not having replied to the provisional decision that it is in the best interests of both parties to 
use the award in a way that enables the account to be closed.
The overall financial benefit to Mrs E is within the range that Id indicated in my provisional 
decision. And I believe it amounts to a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint.
Putting things right
Avant now needs to take the following action:
Credit the account with £257.79 which represents the award I make for distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs E. And then close the account.
If the account has been reported to credit reference agencies, arrangements should be 
made  once the account has been closed  for that to be recorded in the appropriate 
manner.  
 My final decision
For the above reasons my final decision is Im upholding this complaint. I require AvantCredit 
of UK, LLC to take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding paragraph.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman