DRN-3423972
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) has unfairly handled a 
subsidence claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mrs D made a claim under her buildings insurance policy. The subject of which has 
been considered by this Service previously under a separate reference. I issued a 
final decision in October 2021 on the matters of delays, financial losses, alternative 
accommodation, and compensation  considering the claim up until June 2020. 
I explained that matters addressed after this period, including snagging issues and 
subsidence concerns would need to be considered separately. This complaint 
concerns the events that followed onwards up until October 2021, which was the 
period covered by our Investigators assessment. 
Mrs D has told this Service that the claim had not meaningfully progressed, with 
outstanding concerns about snagging and its proposed cash settlement. She also 
referenced a water leak that she said showed the subsidence repairs completed 
previously were not effective or lasting. 
Tesco provided a report from surveyor (Company A) who visited the property in 
September 2021 to review repairs completed by a previous Tesco instructed agent 
(Company B). It included a detailed schedule of works, including additional items, 
with industry rate estimates. Ive summarised its findings below.
oIt recognised Mrs Ds wardrobes were removed and disposed of instead of 
being refitted/renewed.
oIt identified a new localised area of subsidence in the front path adjacent to 
the drive. It said the local water authority had confirmed excessive water 
consumption and was investigating a potential leak.
oIt questioned why external cracked mortar and bricks hadnt been repaired 
previously and included these repairs within its costings. It also said cracking 
above the rear kitchen room door didnt appear to be subsidence related.
oIt said settlement cracks were visible throughout the property and these would 
need to be readdressed at the end of the defects period. And relevant 
certificates shouldve already been provided to Mrs D and suggested Tesco 
forward these to her.
oCompany A also found faults with Company Bs previous works, including not 
all works were completed in line with the previous schedule. And laminate 
flooring within a bedroom was very loose due to a lack of units being re-fitted.
Tesco said it had asked its loss adjusters to provide a schedule of works based on 
Company As findings and said it would provide a date for works. And that it would 
agree to cash settle for the wardrobes at the costs Mrs D provided from a designer.
Tesco also agreed to send a contractor to fix the incorrectly fitted water tank in the 
attic fitted by Company B previously.
Mrs D questioned the quality of the report based on it relying on a visual inspection. 
She said Tesco should either complete a proper inspection or allow her to arrange 
one. She also said the water leak was now mended but further subsidence was not 
investigated. And she said the costs of crack repairs should be included within the 
settlement, alongside other issues, and relevant certificates werent yet sent to her.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint. He said Tesco appeared to have caused 
unnecessary delays since the last complaint was considered. He said the subsidence 
matter is still due to be investigated, so he could not comment on whether this was 
due to Tescos error at this time. And he said hed been given no expert report to 
evidence that Tescos scope of works was inaccurate or inclusive of necessary items. 
But he said Tesco should award Mrs D £500 for its mistakes, delays, and poor 
handling.
Tesco didnt respond. Mrs D disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint.
Claim progression
ICOBS 8.1. requires insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly and to provide appropriate 
information on a claims progress. Disappointingly its clear to me that Tesco has not met 
these obligations and the claim has not progressed as I would expect since my last decision. 
Tesco has provided little detail to this Service in terms of timelines. But significantly it has 
acknowledged its previous agent Company B has made numerous mistakes throughout its 
handling of the claim, including not completing the scope of works as it shouldve, disposing 
of wardrobes, and incorrectly fitting Mrs Ds water tank. As Company B was acting as agent 
for the insurer, I hold Tesco responsible for these mistakes. And each of these issues have 
led to further avoidable and unnecessary delays to this claim being progressed. Mrs D has 
also complained of not being kept updated and Tescos agents not replying to her. Tesco 
hasnt satisfied me it has kept her updated, so I consider this to be a failing on its part.
Given the matter is still ongoing, I also cant ignore that Mrs D will unfortunately continue to 
have to deal with this claim for some time to come. And I would remind Tesco this is already 
the second complaint Ive considered about this claim and I would expect it to ensure Mrs D 
receives considerably better Service going forward.  
Snagging issues/Tescos scope of works
Mrs D has outlined she is unhappy with Tescos costings and Company As report. Ive 
reviewed this report and I would comment that while it is based on a visual inspection, it is 
very detailed and thorough within its costings and commentary  much of which was critical 
of previous works. I would also note Company A explained its estimated costs were based 
on current Industry rates and not network contractor prices as Id expect. So, on its face Im 
satisfied its fair for Tesco to rely on its costings and commentary of works and damage.As our Investigator has previously said, we would typically expect to see expert evidence to 
be persuaded that its findings were inaccurate or insufficient. Mrs D hasnt provided any 
expert evidence at this time or much in the way of detail as to why the proposed plans 
wouldnt be sufficient, so this hasnt changed my mind. 
Mrs D has mentioned her toilet bowl was cracked by previous contractors and tiles were 
removed. And she has mentioned curtain rails and curtains. She said related repairs arent 
included in Tescos costings. But having read the costings myself from Company As report, 
the broken toilet appears to be included alongside various other bathroom costs, as well as 
several references to curtain rails throughout.
Mrs D has also said the costings do not include settlement crack repairs. The report says: 
There are a number of settlement cracks noted throughout the property which may 
need addressing at the end of defects period. These have not been included in the 
attached schedule of works.
So, it appears to me that Tesco is willing to reconsider these costs in the future. And I would 
expect Tesco to provide clarity to Mrs D on when this decision will be made and what it will 
be considering in reaching this decision. 
Company A highlighted that Mrs D had requested copies of the gas safety certificate and 
electrical safety certificates. And it said Tesco shouldve done this prior to re-occupation of 
the home. If Tesco has yet to provide these, I direct it to do so.
New subsidence 
At this time, I have been given little to demonstrate that Tescos previous subsidence works 
were insufficient, and not effective or lasting. Ive been given no reports from Mrs Ds local 
water authority for instance that support whatever issue occurred was connected to previous 
investigations. And similarly, while Company As report comments on a new area of 
subsidence, there is no commentary that relates the potential escape of water to the 
previous actions of Tesco. So, based on what I have, Im not persuaded theres sufficient 
evidence to fairly say Tescos previous subsidence repairs were flawed or have failed.
If it hasnt already, I would expect Tesco to consider this subsidence damage in line with the 
policy terms. If it establishes it is linked to previous repairs or investigations, I expect it to 
consider whether it should award compensation to Mrs D. I also expect it to provide Mrs D 
with a timeframe on any necessary investigations and next steps.
Compensation
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Tesco needs to compensate Mrs D for the 
further delays and poor communication across this claim. In light of all the issues Ive 
described above, I am very sympathetic to Mrs D and the challenges shes faced as a result 
of Tescos actions. While the claim has progressed to some extent, and some issues have 
been resolved, its findings reflect that the claim has been handled poorly and quality of some 
of its previous works has been questionable. Taking into account these delays on Mrs D Im 
satisfied it needs to pay her a further £500 in compensation. 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint and direct Tesco Underwriting Limited to pay Mrs D £500 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused her.Tesco must also provide Mrs D with the gas safety and electrical safety certificates as 
Company A has previously outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman