DRN-4060942
The complaint
Mrs H complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds decision to decline a 
claim made under her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H has at times been represented in making this complaint by family members. For ease 
of reference, Ill simply refer to the information weve been given as being provided by Mrs H.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mrs H has a buildings insurance policy underwritten by AA which covers a property she 
owns. The property appears at present to be occupied by Mrs Hs brother. Were told Mrs H 
lives elsewhere.
In short, Mrs H made a claim after an escape of water in a bathroom at the property. The 
incident occurred on 27 July 2022. Mrs H made the claim on 12 August 2022. 
By that time, shed had a number of repairs carried out, including replacement of the toilet 
and re-fitting of the hand basin in the bathroom and replacement of flooring in the bathroom 
and in the kitchen.
Mrs H sent AA invoices from a plumber and a flooring specialist. The total cost was several 
hundred pounds.
After some discussion with Mrs H, AA declined the claim. They had asked Mrs H to provide 
photographs of the affected areas before the incident, but she didnt have any. AA said they 
werent able to validate the claim due to Mrs H having had the repairs carried out before they 
had a chance to assess the damage.
Mrs H complained to AA. They apologised for a minor delay in responding to a call from 
Mrs H at one point, but they maintained that their decision to decline the claim had been 
correct.
Mrs H wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think AA had done anything wrong.
Mrs H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will disappoint Mrs H but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Hs policy sets out a number of conditions which policyholders have to meet when 
making a claim.
I wont quote these conditions word-for-word. But they say that the policyholder should 
phone the insurer as soon as possible after any loss leading to a claim. 
They say that the policyholder then needs to provide details of the claim and estimates for 
repair or replacement. And they say the policyholder must not dispose of any damaged 
items until the insurer has had the chance to inspect them.
Those conditions arent unusual. Most, if not all, home insurance policies will contain similar 
provisions. 
Theyre not particularly onerous or troublesome for policyholders either. Mrs H said she had 
to take immediate action when the incident occurred because there was an on-going leak. 
Whilst thats true, the emergency action needed to stop further water escaping and causing 
more damage didnt necessarily include replacing or re-fitting the whole bathroom suite or 
replacing the flooring in two rooms.
There are two main reasons why most if not all home insurance policies contain these kinds 
of conditions. 
One, the insurer is perfectly entitled to carry out investigations to confirm that the damage 
was due to an insured event  and so is in fact covered under the policy. 
And two, if there has been an insured event, they are then perfectly entitled to assess the 
extent of the damage caused specifically by that event and agree the repair or replacement 
works theyre liable to pay for.
In this case, AA werent able to do either of those things. They were simply presented with 
invoices to cover repair or replacement work in two rooms which may or may not have 
wholly  or in part  been caused by an insured event.
Mrs H has made the point that its unfair to ask her for photographs of the rooms from before 
the incident since she doesnt have any. I dont agree that was unfair. 
What AA were trying to do  quite reasonably in my view and certainly to Mrs Hs advantage 
 was give her a chance to satisfy them about the nature of the claim despite the fact shed 
only notified them of the claim after the repairs had been carried out.
Its certainly arguable that it wouldnt have been unfair simply to decline Mrs Hs claim 
without giving her that opportunity.
I might take a different view on this case if it were reasonably obvious that the most likely 
cause of the escape of water was an insured event. But thats not the case here.
Mrs H appears to have told AA at first that her brother suffered a fall in the bathroom which 
caused the damage. Mrs H does have accidental damage cover, although AA might still 
have felt entitled to assess whether the damage was caused primarily by the impact of the 
fall or whether the bathroom pipes, sink and/or toilet were in a poor state of repair 
beforehand.She later said the leak had simply started without any immediate or obvious cause. Its not 
unreasonable in those circumstances for AA to think the leak may have been caused by 
wear and tear  which is specifically excluded form cover under the policy terms.
In short, the terms are very clear. Claims work like this  the policyholder should take 
immediate action to mitigate against further damage or loss but must notify AA as soon as 
possible. They must then provide estimates for repairs or replacement. And they must not 
dispose of damaged items, so AA has the chance to assess the cause and extent of the 
damage.
Id ask Mrs H to understand that in this case, she didnt comply with those policy terms. AA 
were presented with a claim around two weeks after the event. All the repairs and 
replacements had already been carried out and AA simply got copies of two invoices. They 
had no opportunity to validate the claim, to identify the cause of the damage and/or the 
extent of the damage that was covered.
In those circumstances, it appears AA tried to assist Mrs H in validating her claim by any 
other means possible (the photographs etc.). AA also attempted to contact the plumber 
whod caried out the work to see if they could provide any useful information. 
But when that proved impossible, it wasnt unreasonable or unfair for AA to decline the 
claim. The onus was on Mrs H to prove that shed suffered a loss or damage caused by an 
insured event  and unfortunately for Mrs H she hasnt been able to do that.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman