DRN-3759415
The Complaint
Mr H says that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with 
claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to holiday products 
purchased using his Nationwide credit card.
The claims, which are the subject of this complaint, are Mr Hs because it was his credit card 
that gave rise to them. But as the holiday products that the claims concern were in his name 
and that of his wife (Mrs H), Ill refer to Mr and Mrs H at times during this decision.
Background to the Complaint
Mr and Mrs H purchased membership of a holiday club on 19 May 2010 and 20 September 
that year from a third party (the Supplier). And to help finance those purchases, they used 
Mr Hs credit card to pay £1,450 and £2,900 respectively.
Unhappy with those purchases, Mr H  using a professional representative (LF)  made 
claims for misrepresentation and unfair regulations in October 2019 (the Letter of Claim). 
The reasons for those claims are familiar to both sides. So, I wont repeat them in detail 
here. But, in summary, the Letter of Claim said the following:
Mr and Mrs H were told that they were purchasing membership of a floating week 
holiday club rather than a timeshare.
Mr and Mrs H were assured that their purchases were great investment opportunities as 
their membership wouldnt lose its value and, at the very least, they would get their 
money back if they came to sell  which was untrue.
Mr and Mrs H were assured that there was always plenty of availability when booking a 
holiday and could travel anywhere at any time. But that wasnt true.
Despite assurances, Mr and Mrs H didnt have access to good quality accommodation or 
the sort of choice they were told about during the sales.
Mr and Mrs H couldnt cancel their membership whenever they wanted to and trying to 
do so wasnt straightforward.
Mr and Mrs H werent given enough time to read the contract and make an informed 
decision.
The Supplier acted recklessly and didnt show due care towards Mr and Mrs Hs needs 
and financial circumstances.
Mr and Mrs H were pressured into their purchases and they werent given a cooling off 
period.
Having not received a substantive response from Nationwide, Mr H referred a complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service  which was represented by LF.
Nationwide then issued a final response on 24 April 2020. It turned down Mr Hs claims for 
misrepresentation. But it made no mention of what the Letter of Claim had to say about 
unfair regulations.
The complaint was then looked at by an investigator. She thought that Mr H had only made 
Section 75 claims before concluding that they were out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 
(the LA).
Mr H, who was now represented by a different professional representative (M), disagreed 
without giving any reasons why. And as a result, the complaint was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision  which is why it was passed to me.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 14 September 2022. In summary, I thought that 
Mr Hs Section 75 claims for misrepresentation were made out of time under the LA. And, 
having concluded that claims under Section 140A had probably been made, I wasnt 
persuaded that they should succeed.
I gave both sides until 12 October 2022 to submit new evidence and/or arguments. But 
Nationwide had nothing further to add and neither Mr H nor M responded. So, the complaint 
has come back to me to consider for a Final Decision.
What Ive Decided  and Why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld for broadly the same 
reasons I gave in my PD.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be made under Section 
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Ors 
[2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under Section 2(1) of the MA is an action 
founded in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the 
date on which the cause of action accrued (see Section 2 of the LA).
Mr H made like claims against Nationwide under Section 75 of the CCA and the limitation 
period for those claims is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claims. So, this 
means that he had six years from the dates on which the causes of action accrued to make 
the claims.
The dates on which the causes of action accrued were the points at which Mr H entered into 
the purchase agreements. I say this because he entered into them based on the alleged 
misrepresentations of the Supplier. And as his Nationwide credit card was used to help 
finance the purchases in question, it was when he entered into the purchase agreements 
that he suffered a loss.It follows, therefore, that the causes of action accrued when Mr H entered into the purchase 
agreements  which means he had six years from May and September 2010 to make the 
claims in question. But as I said in my PD, as he didnt do that until October 2019, his claims 
are likely to have been late. And for that reason, I think Nationwide had and has a defence to 
them under the LA.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
The Letter of Claim was headed RE: S.75 AND / OR S.140A CONSUMER CREDIT ACT 
1974, one of the subheadings was Unfair Regulations and the Letter itself had the 
following to say:
This falls within Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Our Clients seek to pursue 
you for damages sustained because of the Resort Owners misrepresentations, negligence, 
failures and unfair initial contract negotiations and sales tactics. This section of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 does not impose any obligatory requirement and is not 
concerned with the question as to whether the credit or anyone else is in breach of [a] duty. 
The discrepancies found within the agreement and promises made along with the failures of 
the Resort Owners in mis-selling and not disclosing potential risks of the product, resulted in 
Our Clients bearing a loss. The Resort Owner failed to take reasonable steps to ensure the
product was suitable for Our Clients.
I acknowledge, as I did in my PD, that the main body of the Letter of Claim doesnt expressly 
refer to Section 140A of the CCA. But as I said in my provisional findings, the allegations 
under the heading and subheading above dont fall neatly (or at all) into Section 75 claims. 
So, if the Letter is construed too narrowly, its difficult to explain why the relevant allegations 
were included. And given the nature and extent of them along with the heading and 
subheading under which they were referred, I still think it was and is reasonable to infer that 
Section 140A claims were being made.
However, with that being said, Im still not persuaded that a court would find the relevant 
relationships between Mr H and Nationwide unfair under Section 140A. While the Letter of 
Claim makes a number of allegations in relation to what happened in May and September 
2010, none of them are accompanied by detailed submissions or a detailed account from 
Mr H that gives them the colour and context they need to succeed given everything else Ive 
seen so far.
The terms of the purchase agreements entered into by Mr and Mrs H indicate that those 
agreements were governed by the laws and subject to the jurisdiction of the courts of a 
country abroad. But I havent been shown anything to suggest that the terms of those 
agreements were and/or are likely to be operated unfairly against Mr H under that particular 
jurisdiction. And based on the information Ive seen to date, I cant currently see that the 
Suppliers conduct fell significantly short of the standard that could have been reasonably 
expected or that there were any aspects of the relationship between Mr H and the Supplier 
that were so unclear that he agreed to the purchases without knowing something that was 
important to that decision.
Whats more, as I still havent seen enough to suggest that there are any other relevant 
considerations that might have rendered the relationships between Mr H and Nationwide 
unfair for the purpose of Section 140A, Im not persuaded thats the conclusion a court would 
reach.My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman