DRN-4081099
The complaint
Mrs R complains about how Financial Administration Services Limited (Fidelity) have 
administered her investments.
What happened
In early 2023 Mrs R discovered that Fidelity had for several years been charging a fee for 
managing her investments that she wasnt aware of.
Mrs R complained to Fidelity who didnt uphold the complaint saying the fees had been 
charged in line with the terms and conditions. They say letters about changes to the 
investments and account statements showing the fees had been provided through Mrs Rs 
online account. Mrs R said she never saw any correspondence online and was expecting to 
receive any information from Fidelity in writing.
Remaining unhappy saying she never requested to receive online correspondence Mrs R 
brought her complaint to our service. One of our Investigators looked into what happened 
and thought the fees had been charged in line with the account terms and that the 
notification preferences for Mrs R were set to online only. 
Mrs R disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R has provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
she feels about what happened. I want to assure Mrs R that Ive read and considered 
everything thats been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some of 
what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service.
When dealing with our Investigator Mrs R said The whole complaint is that the 
communication preference was changed to online but you cant advise by whom? If you 
cant confirm who made this request I should be compensated. 
Information from Fidelity shows that on 26 August 2017 an account with them was set up for 
Mrs R. As part of that process document delivery preferences were set to online only and 
email notifications were deselected. These actions were done using Mrs Rs client number. 
Fidelity says this wasnt done by them and wouldve been done by Mrs R herself or perhaps 
her financial adviser.  
Looking at all the information Im satisfied the account preferences were set using Mrs Rs 
client number. This means the options werent chosen by Fidelity. Correspondence was sent 
to Mrs R using method set up in her account, which was online only. So I think Fidelity acted 
correctly when communicating with Mrs R that way.
Ive also looked at the fees that were charged and they are in line with the account terms 
and conditions. I also think the letters about changes to Mrs Rs investment are clear about 
what was happening and why.  
Fidelity have also shown records that Mrs R accessed her online account multiple times so 
the correspondence was available for her to view. I also note that Mrs Rs financial adviser 
was sent copies of the letters and also had online access to review her investments.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Fidelity treated Mrs R 
fairly and reasonably so wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman