DRN-4311635
The complaint
Mr L complains Metro Bank PLC (Metro) allowed his account to go overdrawn without any 
overdraft facility being in place.
What happened
Mr L says in late May 2023, he noticed his bank account with Metro was going into an 
overdrawn position, something that had happened on previous occasions. Mr L says when 
he spoke to Metro it couldnt provide him with a clear explanation why his account had gone 
overdrawn and suggested it may be an issue with an online payment provider he has an 
account with. Mr L says Metro told him it couldnt provide any further details until it had seen 
a running statement which could take a few days to obtain. 
Mr L says he then arranged a three-way conference call with the payment provider and 
Metro and in that call Metro agreed to refund him £20 to put his bank account back into 
credit, but it still didnt provide a clear explanation of why his bank account went overdrawn. 
Mr L says he has made a number of phone calls to Metro over this matter and some of those 
calls werent returned  Mr L wants Metro to properly investigate the reason why his bank 
account is going into overdraft and to pay compensation for the trouble and upset this has 
caused him. 
Metro says it apologised to Mr L as its agents should have asked more questions about the 
complaint before closing it off nor should it have entered into a three-way conference call 
and feedback has been given to the staff involved. Metro says the £20 paid to Mr Ls bank 
account was a goodwill gesture to move the bank account out of arrears and not a 
compensation payment, which may have caused the confusion here. 
Mr L wasnt happy with Metros response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Mr Ls bank account didnt go overdrawn due to any banking error made by 
Metro. The investigator pointed out it is Mr Ls responsibility to ensure he has sufficient funds 
in his bank account to meet any debit card payments he makes, and Mr L shouldnt expect 
Metro to update his bank account balance instantly after he authorises a debit card payment. 
The investigator explained to Mr L once he has authorised a debit card payment he is 
agreeing to those transaction being debited to his bank account, albeit these can be 
presented a few days later by the merchant. 
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Metro were at fault for allowing Mr Ls bank 
account to go overdrawn and if it explained to him why his bank account was going into an 
overdrawn position that day. 
Both Metro and Mr L have provided this service with comprehensive details of the course of 
events here and while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point made 
as I dont feel its necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. Thats not 
to say I havent considered everything said  I have. But its just that I dont need to 
comment on each individual point in order to reach a decision on whats fair and reasonable.
The first thing to say here is Metro have accepted it could have handled Mr Ls complaint a 
little better here, but its not the role of this service to scrutinise Metros complaints process 
or to tell Metro how it should deal with complaints more widely.
Mr Ls complaint centres around the fact his bank account was going into an overdraft 
position and Metro failed to explain to him why, even though it refunded him with £20 to take 
his bank account back into credit.
From the information I have seen the reason why Mr Ls bank account went into overdraft in 
late May 2023 was due to a payment presented by an online payment provider for £19.45. 
During the initial phone call Mr L had with Metro the agent tries to explain the fact that 
payments like these arent always presented for payment on the day of the transaction. So, 
while perhaps Mr L may not have been happy with that explanation as he felt it should be 
presented when he authorised the payment, thats not something Metro can control  that 
will depend on the merchant presenting the payment.  
What seems to have happened here is Mr L immediately raised a complaint before the 
matter was fully investigated, which in all probability added to the time it took to respond to 
him. 
Its fair to say in an attempt to sort out the overdraft position Metro agreed to credit Mr Ls 
bank account with £20 as a goodwill gesture, which on reflection may have confused matters 
as Mr L seems to have taken this as a compensation payment. Metro have also accepted it 
perhaps shouldnt have held a three -way conversation with Mr L and the online payment 
provider as this did little to clarify matters. 
So here while Metro could have perhaps tried to reiterate the reasons why the transactions 
had created an overdrawn position, as it had in the earlier phone call, rather than taking this 
matter through the complaints process, it has apologised for that and fed back this to its 
agents. 
The fact remains, although Mr L may not agree, it is his responsibility to manage the balance 
on his bank account and while he was under the impression all debit card transactions are 
debited form his bank account instantly, that is not the case and he would need to ensure he 
has funds available to cover all the transactions he makes on his bank account, bearing in 
mind the timing of the presentation of these may differ. 
So here Metro have paid a good will gesture of £20 to Mr L when in fact no bank error had 
been made and given that it has apologised for the issues surrounding the closing of his 
complaint and provided feedback to those staff involved, I am satisfied that is sufficient here. 
While Mr L will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Metro. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman