DRN-1946663
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
In September 2018 Mrs B acquired a car costing £23,639 funded by a deposit of £1,173 
(cash and part exchange) and the balance with a hire purchase agreement.  It was some 
four years old and had covered 23,929 miles.
Mrs B encountered a problem with the car and in January 2019 it was taken back to the 
dealer. It replaced the engine turbo under warranty. The mileage at this point time was 
28,452. 
A further fault developed and the car was taken back in early March and the exhaust gas 
recirculation (EGR) valve was replaced, again under warranty. The mileage was 30,103. In 
April the infotainment screen went blank and this was repaired. In June the differential was 
replaced under warranty and in November the car wouldnt start due to a loose battery 
connection. At the time of the last repair the mileage was 39,208.
Mrs B asked to be allowed the reject the car, but this was refused. The dealer offered her a 
replacement on a commercial basis and she was prepared to take this option, but Blue 
refused her application for finance.
Mrs B brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. 
He noted the car first failed within four months of the date it was supplied. At this time the 
engine turbo was found to be faulty and was replaced. He thought Mrs B should have had 
the option to reject at that point, but the dealer had taken the right to repair. When the 
second fault occurred Mrs B spoke to Blue and explained she wanted to reject the car unless 
no fault was identified.
He said that when the exhaust was repaired and there was an issue with the seatbelt Blue 
said the latter wasnt an inherent fault and so rejection wasnt an option. It didnt take into 
account the exhaust fault. He concluded that when faults were diagnosed on 5 April, Blue 
should have accepted Mrs Bs request.
Blue didnt agree and said the first fault appeared four months after the point of sale and this 
indicated it was present when sold. It had been repaired at no cost to Mrs B and the 
subsequent faults were of wear and tear items. It also noted that Mrs B had continued to use 
the car and had covered a significant mileage which indicated it was of satisfactory quality. 
As of May 2020 the car had a recorded mileage of 46,400.  It appreciated Mrs B may have 
lost faith in the car, but this wasnt grounds for rejection. It also provided information from the 
Motor Ombudsman that the EGR was a serviceable item.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Blue is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I consider this to be a finely balanced decision and I have some sympathy with the 
arguments put forward by Blue, but after due deliberation I have concluded that I should 
uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The car suffered a major problem within four months of the point of sale and the dealer 
exercised its right to repair. It seems this issue has been properly repaired and there have 
been no further issues with the turbo. On that basis alone I can see no grounds to require 
Blue to allow her to reject the car. 
However, Mrs B encountered further problems and I have to consider if these were inherent 
faults present at the point of sale which would allow rejection. At this point I should explain 
that this service takes the view that a car is a single entity and the merchant is entitled to one 
repair attempt. 
The second major issue Mrs B encountered was the EGR which was replaced under 
warranty. I gather Mrs B asked to be allowed to reject the car at this point, but this was 
refused. Since our investigator issued his view Blue has supplied evidence that the EGR is a 
wear and tear item. I am happy to accept this, but it does seem that Mrs B has been 
particularly unfortunate with the number of major faults she has encountered.
At the beginning of June 2019, the cars differential was repaired. I note that Blue has told 
Mrs B that this was a wear and tear item. I am not convinced by this response. The car had 
only covered some 43,000 miles at this point and given it is relatively unusual for differentials 
to fail I am surprised to see it suggested that this is due to wear and tear. However, I am 
aware that this model does have some problems with the differential and if that was the 
explanation, I consider it likely that the problem was inherent at the point of sale.
I have noted that Blue has said the car passed its MOT at the time of purchase as evidence 
that it was not faulty at that time. A MOT can give some indication of the health of a car, but 
it doesnt cover every item within the vehicle and cannot be said to be the definitive evidence 
of the state of a car.Mrs B has been able to use the car and she should be responsible for the monthly payments 
until the car is taken back.
Putting things right
Mrs B should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to:
Unwind the agreements and collect the car at a convenient time and at no cost to 
Mrs B.
Pay her £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience she has suffered
Refund her deposit of £157.43 plus 8% simple interest from the date paid until 
repaid. 
Remove any adverse entries it may have placed on her credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman