DRN-3501114
The complaint
Mr G complains on behalf of Mrs G ,that Digital Moneybox Limited (DML) wont  allow Mrs G 
to  transfer her Cash Lifetime ISA (Cash LISA) to a Stocks and Shares Lifetime ISA (S&S 
LISA). She would like to be able to do this.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:
Mrs G has told us that various companies wont allow her to set up a LISA account. 
But in this complaint, I can only consider DMLs actions and any impact on Mrs G.
DML has said it isnt able to allow Mrs G to transfer her Cash LISA to a S&S LISA 
due to operational reasons. I appreciate that must be frustrating for Mrs G, but I dont 
agree DMLs actions are based on Mrs Gs age and therefore potentially 
discriminatory. I have looked at DMLs website, that clearly states it doesnt allow 
transfers from a Cash LISA to a S&S LISA or vice versa. It doesnt state that there 
are any criteria for allowing or not allowing such transfers simply that it doesnt offer 
this. I have also noted in its final response letter that it has said it hopes to offer this 
service in the future.
DML has confirmed that Mrs G can transfer her Cash LISA to another provider. If Mrs 
G is having problems with other providers doing this thats not something that DML is 
responsible for.
Its not for us to tell businesses what services or products to offer. So , I cant tell 
DML to allow Mrs G to transfer her Cash LISA to a S&S one as she would like as it 
doesnt offer that service. And I am satisfied from what I have seen that its reason 
doesnt relate to Mrs Gs age
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman