DRN-2297911
The complaint
Mr H complained that MYJAR Limited loaned to him irresponsibly 
What happened
In April 2019 Mr H took out a Myjar loan for £175, repayable over six months. 
One of our adjudicators investigated this loan. In summary, our adjudicator thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Hs circumstances at the time 
and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask Mr H for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
there wasnt anything in the information Mr H provided, or the information Myjar 
shouldve been aware of, which meant that Myjar shouldve taken steps to verify the 
information Mr H had declared.
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H disagreed with our adjudicators view. Mainly he said that no proper checks were 
carried out and the loan should never have been lent to him. So his complaint comes to me 
for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Myjar provided Mr H with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr H could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Hs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. 
Before lending to Mr H, Myjar asked Mr H for information about his financial situation, such 
as his monthly income and his outgoings, including what he was spending on other loans. 
Using this information, Myjar was able to see what his monthly budget typically looked like. 
And it worked out what he could afford to borrow. 
Looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan term, and the information 
Myjar had on record for Mr H, including what it appears Mr H told Myjar about his monthly 
income and what he was paying out each month and also spending on other credit, this 
didnt point to the loan being unaffordable for Mr H. 
After taking into account his take home pay and the spending it appears Mr H told Myjar 
about, Mr H still shouldve had around £390 left over to pay for this loan. 
As the monthly repayments due on this loan were all less than £57, this wouldve looked 
comfortably affordable for Mr H. 
Im sorry that Mr H had a problem with debt and that making the repayments on this loan 
turned out to be difficult for him. I accept that in reality Mr Hs actual circumstances possibly 
werent fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the other information Myjar 
obtained. 
But wed expect Myjar to decide Mr Hs lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. 
As this was the first loan Mr H had taken out with Myjar, Mr H didn't have any track record 
with the lender that shouldve alerted Myjar to any underlying money problems. 
It wasnt an unusually large loan, given that it looks like his take-home pay was more than 
£2000. And Mr H was planning to pay the loan back over just 6 months  which I think was a 
reasonably foreseeable period of time. 
So I think Myjar could reasonably rely on the information Mr H provided.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Myjar to lend  especially as there wasnt anything 
obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr H wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. 
Although Mr H feels strongly that Myjar shouldve done more or better checks, I dont think 
proportionate checks in these circumstances wouldve required Myjar to probe any more 
deeply into Mr Hs finances or ask Mr H to prove what he was declaring or check other 
information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial 
circumstances.
The fact that other complaints about payday lending have been upheld doesnt affect the 
outcome here. All complaints are looked at individually and decided on their own merits. 
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, 
in this case, I dont think that Myjar did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to Mr H. 
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mr H. But I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman