DRN-3898725
The complaint
Mr L complains that NewDay Ltd unfairly registered a fraud marker against him.
What happened
Mr L became aware that NewDay had registered a fraud marker against him with an
organisation called CIFAS, who are a fraud prevention agency. Mr L denies any involvement
with the circumstances linked to the marker which relates to the purchase of a laptop a few
years ago.
The laptop was purchased using Mr Ls NewDay card but used another payment processor
to channel the payment. Ill refer to them as J.
When the laptop was purchased, the package was returned to the supplier without the laptop
which had been replaced by a piece of wood. Mr L denied making the purchase himself and
was given a refund.
At the time, NewDay communicated with the supplier to find out what had happened. The
supplier believed Mr L had made the purchase himself and evidence at the time indicated Mr
L had spoken on the phone to them about its delivery. Postal evidence showed it was
delivered to Mr Ls home address and signed for.
Based on the claim made by Mr L, NewDay believed hed attempted to defraud them by
claiming a refund and lodged the fraud marker.
Once Mr L became aware of the marker he attempted to get it removed and denied any
involvement in the purchase of the laptop. He believed his account had been used by
someone else to order it. NewDay declined to remove it and Mr L then brought this
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information
concerning the complaint. Mr L explained what had happened and advised that since the
marker had been in place, hed had difficulty obtaining credit or opening bank accounts. Mr L
said that at the time of the delivery, he knew nothing about it and returned the package
without opening it. Mr L said he did not have an account with J, but from documents
provided by him later it transpired he did have an account with them.
NewDay provided details of Mr Ls account including summaries of the investigation carried
out at the time. This included notes of a call provided by the merchant that NewDay believed
was Mr L. NewDay also noted that Mr L had called them about a purchase using J a few
days earlier, although Mr L later denied this was him. NewDay havent been able to produce
the original documents and call recordings they considered before lodging the marker.
After considering the information supplied by both parties, our investigator upheld Mr Ls
complaint because NewDay hadnt been able to produce the evidence they considered at
the time. Our investigator also thought that NewDay should have contacted Mr L about the
marker before they lodged it. It was recommended that the marker be removed and that
NewDay pay Mr L £150.
NewDay didnt respond to the investigators report and Mr L disagreed with the
compensation award and thought it should be increased. This was based on the difficulties
hed experienced obtaining other financial products whilst the marker was in place.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me. I issued  a 
provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before a marker can be lodged with CIFAS, NewDay have to meet the appropriate
standards, known as pillars. The relevant ones here are:
That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a Fraud or Financial Crime has
been committed or attempted.
That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
Because the merchant advised NewDay about what had happened, and NewDay had been
approached for a refund by Mr L, Im satisfied this met the standards set out in the first
pillar.
Mr Ls case was that his card details were used by someone else and he had nothing to do
with either of the transactions made using J, nor did he call NewDay to release one of the
payments.
NewDays notes record that Mr L called them a few days before the disputed transaction
because a payment had been identified by their fraud detection system. The notes refer to
Mr L being identified which also used an additional layer of security (unspecified). The
transaction was made using J and is specifically mentioned in the notes. The call handler
was satisfied that Mr L was the genuine caller and released the payment.
The notes of a further conversation several days later show Mr L disputing that (and another)
transaction made using J. The notes state that Mr L didnt use J and denied it was him
calling them a few days earlier. One of the disputed transactions was refunded to Mr L by J
and NewDay refunded the purchase of the laptop.
The merchant provided details of their interaction with the person they believed was Mr L,
which included a phone call they received prior to the delivery. NewDay compared the calls
and believed this was the same caller whod passed security prior to the release of a
payment to J.
Once NewDay looked further into the transaction related to the laptop, they were informed
that it was purchased in Mr Ls name and delivery was made to his home address at the
time. It also used a signed for postal service. The delivery was returned to the merchant by
Mr L who denied ordering it. When it was opened on return, all the box contained was a
plank of wood. Mr L denied knowing what was in the box.
From this I think its reasonable to assume that Mr L was using that address and at some
point was in possession of the box  because he later returned it himself to the merchant.
Ive struggled to think of a plausible and likely reason how someone unknown to Mr L could
obtain sufficient details about him to pass NewDays security  including the additional
details needed to release the payment.Why would someone go to this trouble and then leave the box  presumably resealed for Mr
L to return? It would have been much simpler and far less risky to just take the box with the
laptop in it. Presumably, if it was ordered by someone other than Mr L, then theyd already
obtained the laptop  so I cant think why they would then go the trouble and risk of
discovery by packaging the box up with a plank of wood for Mr L to find and return to the
supplier.
NewDay considered that their evidence showed Mr L had attempted to defraud them in
relation to the transaction for the laptop by falsely claiming a loss. NewDay were unable to
provide the original files to our service, so I havent been able to objectively review their
evidence in light of Mr Ls complaint. But, they did supply their notes they made at the time
which show NewDay carried out an investigation into the refund claim and were provided
evidence from the merchant, including notes of a call from Mr L where he denied making the
transaction. They assessed that this was enough to meet the standards laid down by CIFAS
and I tend to agree.
But, NewDay are required to retain their evidence for the period the marker is in place and
as they havent been able to produce it, I think its both fair and reasonable for them to now
remove the marker. Im not currently intending to make an award to Mr L as I think that
NewDay met the standards required of them at the time.
I invited Mr L and NewDay to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. NewDay didnt respond and in summary Mr L 
added:
He was happy that the marker was to be removed but remained unhappy that no 
compensation was recommended.
He believed he was the victim of a postal scam related to the laptop.
He believed NewDay were using the CIFAS system too easily without thought for 
their impact.
He thought that at least nominal compensation should be awarded to influence the 
thinking of NewDay in future cases where CIFAS is relevant and encourage them to 
discuss the issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having considered Mr Ls additional points, I see no reason to reach a
different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional
decision. 
I appreciate Mr L believes that he was the victim of a scam related to the parcel, but the 
evidence assessed by NewDay at the time gave a different picture, which Ive already 
considered.
When NewDay lodged the marker, they had to meet the standards laid down by CIFAS. Ive 
discussed the level of evidence they obtained at the time and for the avoidance of doubt, Im 
upholding the complaint based on NewDays failure to keep those records they originally 
relied on and not because they didnt meet the standards at the time based on the notes 
they were able to produce.Redress
We dont recommend the award of compensatory payments as a form of punishment for the 
business or to change their approach to future cases, only where the conduct of the 
business has impacted their customer through some failure to treat them fairly. Here Ive not 
recommended the award of any redress because the failure by NewDay was in their record 
keeping and not the standards they achieved when they lodged the marker. 
Putting things right
In order to settle this complaint, NewDay are required to remove the CIFAS marker they 
lodged against Mr L.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd and theyre instructed to 
remove the CIFAS marker they lodged against Mr L. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman