DRN-2814729
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has declined a claim he made under his group 
Pupil Insurance policy.
What happened
On 24 June 2020, Mr B put in a claim under the Fee Return Cover aspect of his group 
policy, as he said his child was unable to attend school due to Covid-19. He made a claim 
for the period of 15 April to 8 July 2020, but it was declined. 
In its final response letter to Mr B, Aviva stated that the insurance provides cover for a 
number of scenarios. These include reimbursement of school fees where a pupil suffers from 
sickness or injury preventing them from attending the school premises  which it said didnt 
apply here. It also said it provided cover for fees where the school is closed due to an 
Epidemic among pupils and/or staff at the school. 
But Aviva said the school wasnt closed as it remained open for the children of keyworkers. 
And it said that, even if it were to accept that the schools premises were closed, this was 
due to a Government order, and not because of an Epidemic among pupils or staff. It also 
said the school had put measures in place for pupils to continue their education via online 
systems so school work wasnt impossible. 
Mr B believes he should be covered by the policy on the basis that his child couldnt attend 
the school. While Aviva had said the school wasnt closed as it was open for the children of 
keyworkers, Mr B said that, for the majority of children, the school was closed. And he said 
that normal and productive school work wasnt possible. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. She noted the definition of Epidemic in the 
terms and conditions: the rapid development of a disease attacking or affecting Insured 
Person(s) simultaneously who normally attend the Group Policyholders premises. And she 
felt that Mr B had been affected. But she concluded that school work wasnt impossible  it 
continued remotely in the form of online classes. While Mr B expressed dissatisfaction with 
the quality of schooling, our investigator felt this was a matter that should be taken up 
directly with the school, rather than Aviva. Overall she felt that Aviva had acted fairly in 
declining the claim. 
Mr B disagreed. He said that no live online classes were provided by the school. And online 
education was only provided for two of 12 classes. So he said this wasnt a continuation of 
schoolwork. He said children werent in school doing school work but, rather, the school 
provided a limited way for parents to assist with what would usually be called homework  
so he said school work in the strictest sense of the word was impossible. He also pointed 
out that he had to purchase an expensive computing device and that his child couldnt work 
independently. Instead he and his wife were acting as teachers during that period. He also 
said that if independent homework is considered an acceptable replacement for school 
work thered be no realistic situation where theyd be covered. 
Mr B has provided us with information about the insurance renewal starting from September 
2020, in which an exclusion has been added for any claims relating to Covid-19. He feels 
this adds weight to his complaint as this exclusion wasnt in place over the relevant period. 
So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr B, I dont uphold this complaint 
 Ill explain why. 
Mr B made a claim under the Fees Return Cover section of the Pupil Insurance policy. The 
terms and conditions of this section say: 
We will pay the Fee Payer for loss caused by Accidental Bodily Injury to or 
Sickness of any Insured Person(s), of the whole or part of the School Fees due to 
the inability of such Insured Person(s) to attend the Policyholders premises owing to 
Sickness or Accident.
Fee Payer is defined as: 
the person or persons who have entered into a contractual obligation with the 
Policyholder to pay fees charged in respect of the attendance at the Policyholders 
premises of the Insured Person(s) for lessons.
And School Fees are: 
The net amount (excluding extras) a Fee Payer is required to pay each term for the 
attendance of the Insured Person(s) at the Policyholders premises for lessons.
As has been pointed out, and in line with the policys definitions, Mr Bs child was neither 
injured nor sick. The policy specifies the loss could result from the injury or sickness of any 
insured person(s) and their inability to attend the premises  which would therefore include 
injury or sickness of other pupils, and not just Mr Bs child. But Ive not been told about any 
injury, sickness or accident of any insured person. It follows that this therefore hasnt 
impacted said persons ability to attend the premises. So Im satisfied, based on the 
evidence I have, that Mr Bs circumstances arent covered by this aspect of the policy. 
However, I do note the emphasis in the above terms of being in attendance at/of the schools 
premises  which we know Mr Bs child wasnt  and Ill take this into consideration within my 
findings below. 
The Fees Return Cover section of the policy has an extension specifically for an Epidemic: 
In the event of the necessary closure of the whole or a part of the (schools) premises 
owing to an Epidemic of an infectious or contagious disease among the Insured 
Person(s) and/or the staff of the Policyholder, which renders the continuance of 
school work impossible, We will pay the Fee Payer the cost of any lost school days.So, put slightly more simply, Aviva would pay the Fee Payer but only if:
the school needed to close; and 
this was because of an Epidemic; and
this disease was among pupils and/or staff; and 
continuing with school work was impossible as a result of all the above. 
Ive thought about each of these individual aspects to see if theyve all been satisfied. I also 
think its clear from this extension that, despite the earlier emphasis on attending the 
premises, closure of the school isnt, in itself, enough to warrant a refund of fees. 
Closure of the school 
The first part relates to whether the school was closed, either partly or wholly. Theres some 
debate around whether it could reasonably be classed as closed as it was open for children 
whose parent or legal guardian was a keyworker. But it seems clear to me that the premises 
were closed for any child whose parents or legal guardian wasnt  such as Mr Bs child. 
So, as Mr Bs child wasnt able to attend the premises, I think its fair and reasonable to say 
the school was closed. In terms of the need to close, Im satisfied based on the evidence 
Ive seen and the wider context of which Im aware, that the Government required the school 
to close. 
Owing to an Epidemic 
So the next consideration is whether this closure was owing to an Epidemic of an infectious 
or contagious disease And I think its fair to say it was. The premises were closed to the 
majority of students solely in response to Covid-19.
Disease among pupils and/or staff 
Theres been no evidence provided to say the disease was among the pupils and/or staff. 
But its important to link this aspect of the term in with the next part  disease among the 
Insured Person(s) which renders the continuance of school work impossible So even if 
there happened to be proof that someone within the school had the disease, this would need 
to be the reason that school work was impossible. So I will now go on to consider this part  
which it seems is really the crux of Mr Bs complaint. 
Rendering school work impossible 
Ultimately this case is decided by whether school work can be said to have been 
impossible. And, while I can appreciate and empathise with Mr Bs frustrations given the 
overall context, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to suggest that this was the 
situation. 
Mr B seems to accept, in part, that school work doesnt have to be done in the school itself, 
but appears to be of the opinion that it should be delivered live by a qualified teacher, even if 
this is online. But, from what Ive seen, the school has chosen not to provide live online 
classes for the most part. Instead, the school has determined it can deliver school work 
online, but through a variety of different mediums. 
Its outside of the scope of this decision to consider why the school provided a limited 
number of online classes and no live classes (according to Mr B); i.e. the perceived 
standard of school work/education it provided. But what I have to decide is whether school 
work was impossible. Ive not been given persuasive evidence that it was impossible, as 
the policy requires, as I cant see why it couldnt have qualified teachers delivering online lessons. So, overall, I cant reasonably say the continuance of school work was impossible. 
Mr B has referenced the cost of purchasing equipment for his child and the requirement on 
him and his wife to act as teachers. Though, my understanding is that Mr B raised these to 
emphasise the minimal involvement of the actual school in school work. But the policy 
requirement is simply whether school work was impossible, not the contribution/efforts of 
the school itself. And, as Mr B was able to purchase the equipment and his child was able to 
do the required school work, this hasnt changed my decision. I also note, under the Fees 
Return Exceptions section, it references losses/expenses and states: 
This policy does not cover any loss or expenses of whatsoever nature directly or 
indirectly arising out of, contributed to, caused by, and resulting from or in connection 
with absence for any closure of the Policyholders premises unless due to the 
necessary closure of the whole premises owing to an outbreak of an infectious 
disease amongst the Insured Person(s)s and/or staff which renders the continuance 
of school work impossible. 
So, based on this, the question returns to whether school work was impossible. And, for the 
reasons above, I dont think it was. So, the losses and expenses incurred because of this 
situation wouldnt be covered. 
Mr B has questioned whether theres a situation where fees would be covered if independent 
homework is seen as a suitable alternative to the usual understanding of school work. I 
think its important to remember that the Covid-19 situation was unprecedented, and that 
cover wouldve been provided had there been no viable way to continue the education of Mr 
Bs child in response to it. Insurance is intended to indemnify for loss, but policyholders or 
insured person(s) would be expected to mitigate losses where possible. In this case the loss 
in question is the loss of school work and this was mitigated by the school providing 
education in a different way. I maintain that the issue with the quality and approach of the 
school work is a matter between Mr B and the school. 
Finally, I note Mr B has provided the policy document for the renewal in which Covid-19 is 
specifically referenced. But the absence of specific reference to it in the applicable policy 
documentation for this claim doesnt mean that the situation isnt excluded from cover. In all 
likelihood, the addition of this term in the renewal is intended to simplify Avivas stance on 
this situation (or something similar) in the future. 
Based on all the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Aviva 
to reconsider this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman