DRN-2708391
The complaint
Mrs W complains that the vehicle she acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed 
by Auto Accept Finance Limited (AAF) wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject it 
and end the agreement.    
What happened
Mrs W tells us that she acquired the vehicle in May 2019. She says its experienced 
numerous faults since then and various repairs were carried out by a business Ill refer to as 
C. She explains that after the latest breakdown in December 2019 and subsequent repairs, 
she collected the vehicle in late January 2020. But almost immediately noticed that white 
smoke was being emitted, so she returned the vehicle to C. She says its since been 
determined that the engine has failed. Mrs W states that the warranty claim has been 
refused.
AAF issued a Final Response Letter on 23 January 2020 prior to the latest breakdown. It 
said that the vehicle had been repaired by C, or under warranty and that it didnt think Mrs W 
should be able to reject it. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She found that an 
independent inspection report had indicated that the engine failure was linked to previous 
repairs. And she didnt think it fair to attribute these issues to Mrs W. She said that faults with 
the coolant system had been identified at the time of the first complaint. And had led to the 
subsequent need to replace the head gasket.
AAF didnt accept this. It said it felt that the most important issue hadnt been considered as 
Mrs W had been advised to have the vehicle checked after a coolant hose had been 
replaced on 8 August. But that she hadnt done so. As its not been possible to resolve this 
complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs W would be disappointed that the vehicle experienced several issues 
since she acquired it. Unfortunately, with high mileage, used vehicles the risk is that much 
greater than with newer models. Here the vehicle was around eight years old with about 
89,000 miles on the odometer when supplied to Mrs W.
Mrs Ws hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. AAF supplied the vehicle so its responsible for 
complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA states that in order to conform to contract 
goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being 
what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects 
of price, previous use and durability.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. This presumption applies 
unless its shown that the goods did conform to contract at that time.
Ive seen the history of breakdowns and repairs which the vehicle underwent since acquired 
by Mrs W. Im not sure if this is complete as reference is made by Mrs W to repairs for which 
Ive not seen job sheets.
Briefly summarised, this information shows that a coolant hose was replaced on 8 August 
2019 by C. This was followed on 23 August when C replaced the head gasket; On 24 
October 2019, a breakdown recovery report indicates a fault with a coolant pressure cap.
Its also not in dispute that the radiator was replaced at some point, although Im not sure of 
the exact date as theres been conflicting dates provided.
Further power loss issues were reported to C in December and the vehicle was returned for 
investigation. I havent seen a job sheet showing the work done, but AAF reports that the 
vehicle was repaired by C. On or around 25 January 2020 Mrs W collected the vehicle but 
returned almost immediately as it had started to emit white smoke (steam). This was later 
diagnosed as being symptomatic of engine failure. AAF confirm the vehicle is beyond 
economic repair.
Where information is unclear or incomplete - as some of it is here - I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Its apparent from the history that the vehicle has experienced issues with the cooling system 
and the resultant consequences which this had for the later engine failure. This started in 
August with the replacement hose and was quickly followed with the head gasket being 
replaced. Further repairs have been undertaken as outlined above.
Ive seen a report prepared by an independent vehicle examiner Ill refer to as D which 
inspected the vehicle on 30 January 2020 after the latest breakdown.
The report stated:
The following can be concluded.
This vehicle was repaired very recently having only covered 2,542 miles.
A visit after this was made, with the replacement engine radiator being fitted with the coolant 
confirmed as being at the correct level when returned to the owner.
The evidence of excessive clearances of the cylinder block cannot be confirmed as being 
present at the first failure, but as the cylinder head is now distorted after machining during 
the last repair, it can be confirmed the engine had reached excessively high temperatures by 
the head distortion and antifreeze deposited described and evidence of the scoring to all 
cylinders nearing the engine to seizure.
The driver must take responsibility for drive on damage as steam (white smoke) from the 
exhaust system would have been clearly evident some time before the vehicle stopped.Due to the short distance covered between these two issues it is highly likely the first failure 
had a contributory factor.
The information supplied to me shows that the vehicle failed to conform to contract within the 
first six months after supply. Repairs were carried out on several occasions. But when the 
vehicle was returned to Mrs W after the latest round of repairs, it failed within a couple of 
hours. The only plausible conclusion is that these and previous repairs hadnt been 
successful in restoring the vehicle to satisfactory quality.
Its been suggested that as Mrs W didnt return to have the repairs which were carried out on 
8 August checked, this somehow contributed to the subsequent engine failure. But I think 
this fails to give sufficient weight to the fact that the 8 August repair was relatively minor. And 
within two weeks a far more significant repair was undertaken  seemingly on warranty  
and requiring a head gasket replacement.
If Mrs W was at fault in these matters then its not apparent why the warranty would cover 
the resultant damage. Or subsequent issues. Mrs W confirms that the only item for which 
she has incurred additional expense is a short period of replacement vehicle hire.
I note that the recovery report in October  apparently made by the same organisation that 
subsequently appointed D to inspect the vehicle  reported a fault with the coolant pressure 
cap. Ive seen no information to show that this was repaired in December.
When the CRA allows a dealer / supplier the opportunity to repair goods before the 
consumer is permitted to exercise the final right to reject those goods, that opportunity 
requires the goods to be returned to a condition so that they conform to contract. In this case 
that refers to repairs to the vehicle as a whole. Not a separate opportunity for each individual 
component part that fails.
On this basis, Mrs W would almost certainly have been entitled to exercise the right to reject 
on 22 August 2019 when it became known that a head gasket needed to be replaced. So 
shes acted reasonably in giving further opportunities for the vehicle to be repaired. 
When she collected the vehicle in late January 2020, Mrs W had every right to assume it had 
been repaired. And when the vehicle again started to emit white smoke she returned to C 
without undue delay. It wouldnt be fair and reasonable to penalise her for this when at best 
its likely to have had a marginal influence on the ultimate engine failure.
In summary, Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the vehicle wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when supplied to Mrs W. The faults with the cooling system go back to 
early August 2019. And the weight of information indicates a strong probability that 
everything thats happened since is linked with that. Subsequent repairs have failed to 
restore the vehicle to satisfactory quality as evidenced by the subsequent faults and ultimate 
engine failure. Accordingly, in upholding this complaint, I think she should now be permitted 
to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
Im aware Mrs W would like a refund of all the money shes paid from August 2019, when the 
faults first became evident, to be refunded. But I have to be fair to both parties. And the CRA 
permits AAF to receive payment for the use that has been obtained from the vehicle. Thats 
around 5,000 miles at the time of the latest breakdown. 
Ive also to consider that a courtesy vehicle was supplied during the latest extended period 
when her own vehicle was being repaired.  So I think its fair and reasonable that payments 
made up to the date of Ds report should be retained. Any loss of enjoyment or facility would 
be covered in the award in respect of distress and inconvenience.During one of the earlier repair periods Mrs W needed to have a replacement vehicle. And 
normally Id be minded to reflect any period of loss of use where a courtesy vehicle is not 
supplied by refunding a proportionate part of the monthly payment. But as the cost of 
replacement hire here is little more than the equivalent daily rate on the finance agreement, I 
think its fair and reasonable to allow the hire cost.   
Putting things right  
1. End the agreement with nothing further to be paid after 30 January 2020. Payments   
accruing up to that date can be charged to reflect fair use;
2. Refund the initial cash deposit paid (£500);
3. Refund the courtesy car costs of £54.22, upon proof of payment;
4. Pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused;
5. Arrange for the removal of any adverse information relating to this agreement from 
Mrs Ws credit file. 
Simple interest at the rate of  8% per year should be added to sums arising from items 2 and 
3 above from date of payment to date of settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint. I require Auto 
Accept Finance Limited to take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding section.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman