DRN-4435029
The complaint
Ms C complains about the service provided by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) under the 
Car and Key Rescue section of her car insurance policy.
Any reference to IPA includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
Ms C broke down on her way home from holiday and called IPA for help. She says that it 
took five hours for help to arrive. Ms C has told us that during her initial call, IPA told her that 
help would arrive within 90 minutes. After two hours, no help had arrived so Ms C called IPA 
and she has said she was told someone would arrive within an hour. Although help did then 
arrive, they were unable to take Ms C or her car back to her home address that day. Ms C 
was offered to be taken to a safe location where she could arrange for a taxi to take her to 
collect a hire car. Her car would be held in storage and was to follow the next day. Ms C was 
unhappy with this and eventually IPA arranged a taxi to take her home.
IPA accepted there had been some delays and offered Ms C £100 compensation. Ms C 
didnt accept this and brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought that IPAs offer was fair for the poor service provided by IPA. Ms C 
didnt accept the outcome. She said that she was told the 90-minute timescale was 
guaranteed and shes had additional expenses for work and childcare due to the delay.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether IPA 
acted in line with these requirements when handling Ms Cs claim.
IPA has accepted that there were delays in help arriving with Ms C, so this isnt in dispute. 
Ms C says she was told it was guaranteed that the help would arrive within 90 minutes of her 
first call. Whilst this appears to be IPAs own service level aim, this isnt something stipulated 
within the policy terms and conditions. Unfortunately, the phone call wasnt recorded and so I 
cant confirm what was said. I think its likely Ms C wouldve been given an indication of 90 
minutes as to when help would arrive. As this didnt happen and no updates were provided 
by IPA, Ive considered this under how things should be put right.
Ms C has also raised frustration that after the initial help arrived, they only offered to drop 
her to a safe place for which she would then need to get a taxi to collect a hire car.
I appreciate this must have caused distress for Ms C, especially as she was travelling with 
her elderly father. However, under the terms of the policy, if the car cant be made 
roadworthy at the place of the breakdown, its up to IPA to choose what they think is the 
most appropriate solution from a list. Some of these options are as follows:
c. Hiring a suitable vehicle for up to 48 hours as long as this is not more than the benefit 
would have been paid under option a above
d. Reasonable public transport or taxi fares for you and your passengers. Please note that 
you will be responsible for all onward transportation in the first instance and (Agent) will 
reimburse these costs once your claim has been validated
e. Any other solution which, we believe, is the most suitable to help you and arrange for the 
car to be repaired and transported.
Whilst I accept why Ms C was unhappy with the initial option provided by IPA to help her get 
home, its an option covered in the policy terms and conditions. At the point Ms C declined 
this offer from IPA, I think this is where consideration of there being a delay in getting help 
ends. I was pleased to hear that IPA then offered Ms C a further option to help her get home, 
although I appreciate this did take some additional time to arrange.
Based on the above, Ms C initially called IPA at around 12:50 and help arrived at around 
16:00. Taking the 90-minute service level aim into account, this means IPA caused a delay 
of around 90 minutes to Ms C.
Ive considered Ms Cs comments about how the delays lead to additional childcare and 
work expenses. Ms C was due to work the following day and as a precaution arranged some 
cover/additional help. As Ms C arrived home the evening before she was due to work, I dont 
think its fair for IPA to cover the additional work costs. Our investigator asked Ms C to 
provide evidence of the additional childcare costs to substantiate the loss. To date Ms C 
hasnt provided us with any evidence of additional childcare costs. So, I wont be asking IPA 
to pay anything in relation to this.
Overall, based on the 90-minute delay to Ms C and the distress and inconvenience this 
caused her, I think the £100 compensation offered by IPA is fair and reasonable. Ms C has 
advised us that this hasnt been paid yet.
My final decision
Inter Partner Assistance SA has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Inter Partner Assistance SA should pay £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Anthony Mullins
Ombudsman