DRN-2915016
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Direct Car Sales & Finance (N-East) Limited, trading as Direct Car 
Sales & Finance, did not settle her finance agreement when she took out a new agreement. 
She wants Direct Car Sales & Finance to settle her old agreement, refund the payments 
shes made since July 2019, and pay her compensation.
For ease, I will refer to the first agreement as agreement one, and the July 2019 agreement 
as agreement two throughout this decision.
What happened
Direct Car Sales & Finance acted as the credit intermediary when Mrs R obtained a new car 
in July 2019 through agreement two, a hire purchase agreement. As part of this arrangement 
she says she returned her existing car to be used as part exchange and Direct Car Sales & 
Finance agreed to settle agreement one.
A few months later, Mrs R noticed that the direct debit was still be taken for agreement one. 
She contacted the lender who told her it had sent a request for final settlement to Direct Car 
Sales & Finance, but that it didnt receive a payment.
Mrs R complained to Direct Car Sales & Finance. It confirmed Mrs Rs old car had been sold 
but that there was no record of it settling her old agreement. It requested some more 
information from Mrs R, including an up to date settlement figure from the finance provider. It 
confirmed it had received this in November 2020, but shes received no communication from 
Direct Car Sales & Finance since, so she brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator has made many attempts to get information from Direct Car Sales & 
Finance, but it hasnt responded.
Based on the information provided by Mrs R, our investigator recommended that the 
complaint should be upheld. He concluded that Direct Car Sales & Finance should settle 
agreement one, return Mrs Rs monthly payments since July 2019, plus interest, and pay her 
£250 compensation.
As Direct Car Sales & Finance didnt reply, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have agreed with our investigators conclusions for the following reasons:
Direct Car Sales & Finance failed to settle agreement one as agreed in July 2019. This is not 
only clear from what Mrs R has told us, but also from what the finance provider told her 
about requesting settlement directly from Direct Car Sales & Finance.
Direct Car Sales & Finance told Mrs R that it received her old car in July 2019 and that it was 
sold around a week later. But that it hasnt a record of settling agreement one. 
Direct Car Sales & Finance told Mrs R in an email that it had made a mistake and it 
apologised. It asked Mrs R for information to help it put the mistake right. Shes provided 
this, but Direct Car Sales & Finance hasnt done anything to put Mrs R back in the situation 
she should be in now if the mistake hadnt happened.
Putting things right
Direct Car Sales & Finance needs to settle agreement one. Mrs R may need to obtain 
another settlement quote from her finance provider for Direct Car Sales & Finance to do this.
Direct Car Sales & Finance should refund all the payments Mrs R has paid since July 2019 
for agreement one. As Mrs R has been without that money, it will need to add interest to the 
refund.
Direct Car Sales & Finance apologised for the distress its caused but hasnt paid Mrs R any 
compensation. She has been continuing to pay for a car that hasnt been in her possession 
since July 2019. At the same time, shes had to make the payments for the new agreement. 
Fortunately, shes not reported any financial difficulties to us, but this has been during a 
particularly difficult time. The lack of response from Direct Car Sales & Finance, after it 
admitted it made a mistake, when it seems to be still trading, has been particularly upsetting 
for Mrs R. I agree with our investigator that £250 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
It would appear Mrs Rs credit file has not been affected by whats happened because shes 
been able to make the contracted payments under both finance agreements. But in case of 
any future questions being raised about the settlement of the agreement, Direct Car Sales & 
Finance should supply Mrs R with a letter of explanation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Direct Car Sales & Finance (N-East) Limited, 
trading as Direct Car Sales & Finance, should:
1. Settle agreement one in full with nothing further for Mrs R to pay.
2. Reimburse the payments Mrs R has made towards agreement one from, and including, 
July 2019 to the date of settlement. It should add interest at 8% simple from the date 
each payment was made to the date of settlement.
3. Pay Mrs R £250 for the trouble and upset shes been caused.
4. Write to Mrs R with an explanation of what happened, making it clear that it made a 
mistake when it didnt settle her finance agreement when it should have done.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman