DRN-4049058
The complaint
Mr N complains that Oplo PL Ltd, trading as Honeycomb Finance Ltd at the time, lent to him 
irresponsibly and without carrying out proper affordability checks.
What happened
In August 2018 Oplo approved a loan of £7,500 for Mr N, which was scheduled to be 
repaid at approximately £184 per month over a term of 48 months. The purpose of the 
loan is the subject of some dispute, but it may have been to consolidate some debt and 
meet the cost of some home repairs. When assessing the application, Oplo asked Mr N 
about his financial circumstances and carried out a credit check before approving the 
lending.
Aside from one returned direct debit, Mr N maintained the account well, and it was 
settled in full.
The investigator looked at the evidence and thought Oplo shouldnt have approved the 
lending for Mr N. Oplo disagreed and asked an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considered the points made by Oplo, Im upholding it, and Ill explain 
why.
Oplo is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of this 
lending decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont repeat 
them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that Mr N 
would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in 
CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that he could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, he needed to be able to meet his financial commitments and not have 
to borrow elsewhere to repay Oplo for the loan to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
There are two questions I need to consider when deciding this case, which I will 
deal with separately below.
Did Oplo carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
The investigator thought that Oplo didnt do enough checks when assessing this application, 
as there were several indicators of potential concern around Mr Ns level of indebtedness in 
the information Oplo did gather. So she thought that proportionate checks in this instance 
would have involved Oplo gaining a more detailed understanding of Mr Ns expenditure.
Given what Oplo knew about Mr Ns financial circumstances from the information it did 
gather (namely the size of his overdraft), I think there could easily be an argument to say 
that it ought to have simply declined the application. However, it would also not have been 
wrong for Oplo to have carried out additional checks in an attempt to establish more 
definitively whether this borrowing could have been deemed to be affordable and sustainable 
for Mr N.
Oplo doesnt accept that, saying that, there was no reasonable cause for us to have 
requested additional information from Mr [N] in support of his application. I dont agree. As a 
minimum, the extent of Mr Ns overdraft, which was clear to Oplo, ought to have raised a 
definite flag around his ability to take on further borrowing which was compliant with the 
relevant rules in place at the time. Additionally, the fact that Mr N had defaulted on an 
account three years earlier should also have increased Oplos curiosity about his full 
financial circumstances.
What would further checks have shown?
When considering this second question, our service has had the benefit of several of Mr 
Ns bank statements from 2018 to review. I accept that there was and is no requirement on 
a lender to obtain any particular type of information: they are permitted to source and rely 
on a range of evidence when assessing affordability, and so Oplo could have opted to 
gather more information about Mr Ns financial position in a range of ways. However, it 
didnt, and, in the absence of anything else provided, Im happy to rely on the bank 
statements to demonstrate what Oplo would most likely have discovered if it had 
completed proportionate checks.
During the course of this investigation, there has been some disagreement between Oplo 
and the investigator as to the pounds and pence income and expenditure assessment 
completed and the amount of disposable income Mr N had to meet these repayments. 
Oplo says that Mr N, should have been able to meet repayments out of his normal 
income without having to borrow to meet the repayments However, this assertion 
entirely ignores the extent of Mr Ns overdraft.
It is unnecessary for me to engage in a pounds and pence analysis of Mr Ns 
circumstances because it is abundantly clear that he had no disposable income, and was 
entirely reliant on a large overdraft  the limit of which was some 60% higher than his 
monthly income. The bank statements show several key things, including that:
he was never anywhere near being in credit, even on the day he received his 
monthly salary
he usually struggled to stay within the agreed overdraft limit
he was making payments to at least one debt management company
he was apparently transacting with a pawnbroking firm
In summary, Mr N was very clearly dependent on borrowing simply to exist. Proportionate 
checks would have shown Oplo that there was frankly no prospect of him being able to meet 
the repayments, out of his normal income, as he was already too indebted for that to 
be possible. It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
When he initially complained to us, Mr N said that he wanted the entire loan amount to be refunded to him; along with compensation for distress and inconvenience; and the value of 
the overdraft mentioned above. He does not appear to have pursued that following the 
investigators recommendation that Oplo put things right by refunding the interest and 
charges on the loan. However, for absolute clarity, I will explain what I am directing Oplo to 
do, and why.
Our well-established approach to such cases is to direct the business to refund the interest 
and charges to Mr N, as the best way of putting him back in the position he would have 
been in if the loan had never been granted. This is because Mr N has had and spent the 
£7,500 he borrowed, so the fairest approach in cases such as this is to ensure that the 
business who made a mistake doesnt profit from that mistake.
There could be circumstances under which I would direct the full balance of the debt to be 
written off to restore fairness. And potentially a further sum in recognition of distress and 
inconvenience. But those circumstances would be rare and exceptional. Mr N has offered no 
reason as to why that would be fair, and it is clear to me that his undoubted financial 
difficulties, and the impact they have had on him, were in no way limited to this loan. So the 
evidence in this case quite simply leads me to conclude that there is no reason to depart 
from our usual approach to redress in this instance.
The loan was settled in 2022. On that basis, I direct Oplo to do the following:
A) Oplo must restructure the account to remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr N as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on the outstanding loan.
B) If this results in Mr N having made overpayments then it must refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the payments were 
made, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Whilst Im not aware that there is any, it must remove any adverse information recorded 
on Mr Ns credit file in relation to this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr N 
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Oplo PL Ltd to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman