DRN-3984861
The complaint
Mr H complains Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream gave him loans while he was 
financially struggling and when he had a low credit score.  
What happened
Mr H was advanced four loans between July 2018 and January 2022. A summary of his 
borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan amount agreement date repayment date
1 £360.00 13/07/2018 21/12/2018
gap in lending 
2 £300.00 27/11/2021 outstanding
3 £200.00 19/12/2021 20/12/2021
4 £150.00 10/01/2022 outstanding
Following Mr Hs complaint Lending Stream wrote to him and explained that loans 1 and 2 
were affordable based on the information that he had provided. For loans 3 and 4, it 
concluded 
Although these loans were 3 to 4 affordable, we have thought about the number of 
loans and the time between each loan being taken out. We can see that it might not 
have been a good idea for us to make these loans.
In order to put things right for Mr H Lending Stream offered to;
refund the interest paid towards loans 3 and 4
pay 8% simple interest on the refund and then deduct tax at the rate of 20%
offset the refund against the balance that Mr H has with Lending Stream 
remove any negative information recorded with the credit reference agencies about 
loans 3 and 4.
Lending Stream calculated, a refund of £3.34 was due which would reduce Mr Hs 
outstanding balance to £521.17. 
Unhappy with this offer, Mr H referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The case was then considered by an adjudicator, and in her assessment, she said she 
wouldnt be looking at loans 3 and 4, because in her view, Lending Stream had already 
made a fair and reasonable offer to put things right for Mr H. Indeed, she confirmed the offer 
was in line with what she may have recommended had she agreed the loans ought to not 
have been provided.  
The adjudicator then considered the complaint about loans 1 and 2 and she said based on 
the information gathered by Lending Stream it had made a reasonable decision to lend 
especially because there was a break in the lending chain between these two loans of nearly 
three years. 
Mr H didnt accept the outcome.  He said he was confused why loans 1 and 3 had been 
brought into question. He explained loan 1 was settled around 4 years ago and loan 3 was 
repaid the next day after it was taken out. Mr H made it clear, that the only loan he required 
a decision on was loan 2. Mr H says Lending Stream is charging double the amount lent to 
him and in his opinion, Lending Stream didnt do enough checks to ensure the loan was 
affordable for him. 
The adjudicator went back and explained why Mr Hs comments hadnt changed her mind 
about the case. Mr H confirmed the refund for loans 3 and 4 had already been paid to him. 
So, he wanted a decision on loan 2 only.  As no agreement has been reached, the case has 
been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the 
amounts hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Lending Streams checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Hs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Lending Stream should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors 
include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Hs complaint.  
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loans  
not just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H is clear in response to the adjudicators assessment that the only loan he is concerned 
about is loan 2 and that is what this decision is focused on. 
Mr H has said that Lending Stream has paid the adjustments it agreed to do in the final 
response letter in relation to loans 3 and 4. Lending Stream hasnt confirmed this, so if 
Lending Stream hasnt paid the redress it said it would pay in the final response letter then it 
should do so. 
Loan 2
This was Mr Hs first loan in around three years, and I do think that gap is large enough for 
Lending Stream to have treated Mr Hs application afresh. So, while this was Mr Hs second 
loan in total, in this chain of lending it was actually Mr Hs first. Which will have an impact on 
what a proportionate check may entail. 
This loan was for £300 and the credit agreement, which Mr H wouldve agreed to before the 
loan being advanced, shows that the total cost of borrowing (so capital plus the interest) was 
to be £600. This is the maximum amount Lending Stream can collect under the regulations 
that are in place. 
For this loan, Mr H told Lending Stream his monthly income was £1,300. Mr H also declared 
monthly outgoings of £600. This was broken down to normal expenses of £525 and £75 for 
credit expense. 
Lending Stream believed, based on the information Mr H provided he had around £700 per 
month in disposable income to afford the loan repayment of £104.39. Therefore, it wouldve 
been reasonable for Lending Stream to believe this loan was affordable for Mr H. 
Before the loan was approved Lending Stream also carried out a credit search and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary spreadsheet of the results it received 
from the credit reference agency. I want to add that although Lending Stream carried out a 
credit search there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific 
standard.
Lending Stream was also entitled to rely on the information it was given by the credit 
reference agency. So, Ive looked at the results to see whether there was anything contained 
within it that wouldve either prompted Lending Stream to have carried out further checks or 
possibly have declined Mr Hs application.
Lending Stream knew Mr H had 12 active accounts and had defaulted on three accounts 
within the last 12 months and four within the last three years. But Lending Stream didnt 
know when these defaults had been recorded. The adjudicator thought this ought to have 
prompted Lending Stream to have made further enquires with Mr H about these accounts 
which I dont think unreasonable. 
Mr H has provided a copy of his credit file, so Ive taken a look to see what the defaults 
related to and how close to this loan application they had been recorded. Based on Mr Hs credit file, I can see that two accounts had defaulted in 2021. A credit card in 
April 2021 and then a home credit loan in May 2021. 
I do acknowledge that Mr H had some adverse information but given the market 
Lending Stream operates in that isnt unusual. This was also the first loan in nearly three 
years, and it was for a modest sum to be repaid over six months. So, I dont think the 
adverse information Lending Stream wouldve likely discovered about the defaults had it 
made further checks wouldve affected its decision to provide this loan. 
Given it was early on in the second chain of lending  I think it was reasonable for 
Lending Stream to have relied on the information Mr H provided to it  which showed he had 
sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments. There also wasnt anything else to 
suggest that Mr H was having either immediate financial difficulties or that the loan 
repayments would be unsustainable for him for some other reason. 
So overall Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint about this loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint about loan 2.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream has made a fair and reasonable offer loans 3 
and 4 and it should do what it has agreed to do in the final response letter  if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman