DRN-3063371
The complaint
Mr E is complaining about the service he received from Skipton Financial Services Ltd when 
trying to access his pension benefits for his retirement. 
What happened
Mr E was a customer of Skipton for a number of years. He engaged them with a view to 
simplifying his pension portfolio and working towards early retirement. He wanted to 
maximise his pension value and take his pension funds in the most tax-efficient way.
On 29 April 2019 Mr E emailed Skipton saying he wanted to arrange a tax efficient 
withdrawal from one of his pensions. He was due to retire and looking to use his tax-free
allowance for the 2019/20 tax year. The adviser at Skipton replied, saying it should be 
possible to complete this by the end of May or beginning of June. That didnt happen, but 
there was further correspondence over the following months.
On 20 June 2019, Mr E sent Skipton some payslips showing his current tax year earnings so 
it could calculate the tax-free amount he could withdraw as income. He also asked Skipton 
about investing the cash held in one of his pensions.
On 7 August 2019, Mr E asked Skipton for an update about his withdrawal. Skipton then told 
him it was introducing a new system and would need to arrange a meeting to discuss the 
information needed for the new system. The meeting took place on 30 August. Skiptons 
adviser told Mr E they couldnt actioned the drawdown of funds until the transfer to the new 
system had been completed, and the drawdown request would be actioned when he had his 
annual review in November.
Mr E chased Skipton about the withdrawal and annual review in October, November and 
December 2019. Skipton told him the withdrawal couldnt happen until the annual review had 
been carried out.  
After a meeting in early 2020, Skipton issued a personalised suitability report to Mr E on 6 
February. The report set out the advisers recommendations, but Mr E was unhappy with it. 
He said there were many errors and he wasnt happy to proceed with the recommendation. 
He says Skipton pressured him to sign the report in order to access his cash but he didnt 
agree and decided to find a new adviser.
Mr E has complained about the time it took Skipton to advise on and action his drawdown, 
and the delay in the advice he received about investing the cash being held in his pension. 
He says this money was held as cash and not earning anything for much longer than it 
should have been. Hes also unhappy with the suitability report and says he shouldnt have 
been pressed to sign this in view of all the errors it contained. 
When Skipton replied to Mr Es complaint, it accepted there had been delays and some poor 
service and offered compensation of £1,000 in respect of this. Mr E wasnt satisfied with the 
offer and brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator agreed there had been unnecessary delay. He said Mr E shouldnt lose out 
as a result of Skiptons decision to change its internal systems and shouldnt have had to 
wait almost 10 months to be able to drawdown funds from his pension. He thought the 
compensation of £1,000 was reasonable to recognise the distress and inconvenience Mr E 
had suffered, but there should also be a calculation of whether he had suffered a financial 
loss. He asked Skipton to calculate the notional value of Mr Es pension if hed invested 
£35,292 in June 2019, in line with the recommendation made in February 2020. He said the 
value should be compared with the value of the pension at the date Mr E removed Skipton 
as his financial adviser. And if the calculation showed there was a loss, Skipton should make 
a payment in respect of this.
Skipton didnt accept the investigators view. It said:
The correct figure for the calculation is £24,199.64, as it would never have been 
£35,292 held on cash; Mr E had plans to withdraw £11,425.81 which would have 
come from the cash. And the intention was to keep £16,666.66 in cash to help fund 
the coming years shortfall. So that would leave £24,199.64 extra held in cash for the 
time stated. 
The market crashed significantly in March 2020 so its likely Mr E benefitted from the 
funds being held in cash at that point rather than being invested.
Mr E was still their customer up to April 2020, so it asked for confirmation of the date 
he actually moved his pensions elsewhere (it doesnt have this date, as it no longer 
has access to his investments).
The investigator agreed that the correct figure to be used in the calculation is £24,199.64 
and following this, Skipton has said it accepts the view and will carry out the calculation  
subject to confirmation of the correct date.
Mr E doesnt accept the investigators view. He has requested an ombudsmans decision 
and has made some further comments. I wont set them all out in full but they include:
The correct date is 24 February 2020, as thats the date when he emailed Skipton 
saying he was taking his business elsewhere.
The compensation of £1,000 isnt fair. It seems to be based on a view that Skipton 
got things a bit wrong when in fact the poor service led to a very stressful time; he 
was left waiting for months not knowing what would happen, and it could have been a 
financial disaster.
He had over £50,000 held in cash. The argument that £11,425.81 should be 
deducted from this isnt correct. By the time the report came out  and bearing in 
mind the number of errors in it  he had to reject it. This should not be used as a 
basis for working out any loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Skipton has acknowledged there was some poor service and delays in dealing with Mr Es 
request to take his pension benefits, and offered compensation of £1,000 for this. It has also 
agreed with our investigators recommendation that it carry out a calculation to assess 
whether there was a financial loss, but has questioned which date should be used for the 
calculation. Mr E, on the other hand, says the proposed compensation is not enough to put 
things right. 
So in reaching a decision I have focused on whether the investigators recommendations are 
enough to remedy any loss or harm caused to Mr E.Mr E first informed Skipton by email on 29 April 2019 that he wanted to draw down funds 
from his pension. Skiptons adviser acknowledged Mr Es email the same day and said he 
was likely to get things sorted by the end of May or early June, with an advice meeting to 
follow. 
That didnt happen and its not clear what caused that initial delay. I appreciate later delays 
were related to Skipton switching to a new system. But I agree with our investigator that 
Skipton had three months notice Mr E wanted to withdraw funds from one of his pensions 
before its new system was brought in. I think that was enough time to have met Mr E, 
researched his position and advise him on how to access his benefits in the most tax-
efficient way. He shouldnt lose out because Skipton didnt take action within those three 
months, nor because of Skiptons decisions to change systems. Of course, its reasonable 
for a business to upgrade its systems but that doesnt mean its fair for Mr E to lose out as a 
result. Its not reasonable for Mr E to have to wait nearly 10 months to draw down from his 
pension.
Based on the email dated 29 April 2019, Skipton should have been able to review things by  
the beginning of June and then arrange a meeting to provide advice and a recommendation. 
If Skipton had provided a recommendation in June 2019, its likely that would have been a 
similar recommendation as the one made in February 2020. And so its likely Mr E would 
have invested a significant amount of the cash held in his pension by 30 June 2019. If Mr E 
has suffered a loss because of the delay, he should be compensated for that. Its not clear if 
that delay did cause any loss. But the right thing to do is calculate whether there was a loss. 
Skipton has accepted the recommendation to carry out the calculation, but has questioned 
which date should be used. Mr E did email Skipton on 24 February 2020 saying he was 
taking his business elsewhere. But although he told them of his intention to move, it didnt 
happen straightaway. So I dont think thats the right date to use. Skipton says it continued to 
charge Mr E until April but cant say when he actually moved to his new adviser. Mr E hasnt 
confirmed this date either. On this basis, the fair way to proceed is for Mr E to confirm the 
date he actually moved to his new adviser and use that date for the calculation.
Mr E doesnt agree that £24,199.64 is the correct figure to be used in the calculation. From 
the information Ive seen, the recommendation was to withdraw £11,425.81 from the pension 
to use as income; and move £16,666.66 to the cash account, to put towards funds for the 
next two years. Deducting those figures from the amount held in cash of £52,292.11 leaves 
a balance of £24,199.64. So Im satisfied that is the appropriate figure to use.
With regard to the compensation for distress and inconvenience, our investigator has 
explained this is not meant to fine or punish Skipton. Its a way of acknowledging the harm 
caused to him. It would have been upsetting for Mr E to have to wait  and have to chase 
Skipton for updates during that period. Taking into account the frustration he was caused 
and the length of time this continued, I think the sum of £1,000 is a fair reflection of the 
distress caused. I appreciate Mr E was concerned things might have been worse if he had  
proceeded with the recommendation given in February 2020, but we dont know what would 
have happened. And I cant to compensate Mr E for what might have happened  only for 
the distress we know he did suffer.
Putting things right
Subject to Mr E confirming to Skipton the date when he switched to his new adviser, Skipton 
should:
Calculate the notional value of Mr Es pension if he had invested £24,199.64 in line 
with the recommendation of February 2020 on 30 June 2019. Compare this notional value with the value of his pension at the date he became a 
customer of his new financial adviser.
If this calculation shows a financial loss, Skipton should pay the compensation 
amount, if possible, into Mr Es pension. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into the 
pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
Skipton should also pay compensation of £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Mr E. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Skipton Financial Services Ltd to 
pay the fair compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman