DRN-3074298
The complaint
Mr G complains about how UK insurance Limited (UKI) handled the renewal of his motor 
insurance policy. Mr G has sought assistance in dealing with this matter from a solicitor. But 
for ease, Ill refer to all submissions as having been made by Mr G directly. 
What happened
Mr G holds a motor insurance policy with UKI. In November 2020 the policy lapsed, and in 
January 2021, he was subsequently stopped by the police for driving with no insurance. He 
contacted UKI and said he thought his insurance was still in place  as when he arranged 
the policy in November 2019, he agreed for it to automatically renew. So he asked UKI for 
an indemnity that he could provide to the authorities. 
But UKI said Mr Gs policy wasnt set up to automatically renew. They accepted that they 
discussed auto-renewal options with him in November 2019, but said it was explained that 
this was not guaranteed.
Furthermore, they said they wrote to Mr G at both the beginning and end of October 2020 
inviting him to renew his policy; and both letters explained his policy would lapse should he 
not take action to renew it. They said they heard nothing from Mr G following these letters, 
so the policy subsequently lapsed in November 2020, and they wrote to Mr G again 
confirming this. So they feel they acted fairly in not renewing his policy. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr G brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Gs complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
accepted UKI discussed auto-renewal options with Mr G when his policy was renewed in 
November 2019. But he said UKI have provided the call script they said they wouldve 
followed. This states that the customers payment details will be stored, and may be used to 
automatically renew a policy  not that it definitely would. 
He also noted that UKI sent two letters to Mr Gs home address prior to renewal, and both 
explained that he may not be covered should he not get in touch. He was also satisfied a 
further letter was sent to advise him his policy had lapsed in November 2020. So he didnt 
think UKI were wrong to have not renewed Mr Gs policy. And he didnt feel an indemnity 
should be provided. 
But Mr G remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering this case, Ive thought about; what was most likely said to Mr G when he 
called to renew his policy; the content of the letters sent to him around renewal; and what his 
policy says. 
When considering the call with UKI in 2019, unfortunately, due to an IT issue, Ive not been 
able to listen to it. But UKI have provided a copy of the script their sales advisors use when 
discussing policy renewals.
It says that for new auto-renewals, they explain to their customers that they will:
securely store your payment details to enable continuous payment authority, unless 
advised otherwise, these may be used to automatically renew your policy, we will 
send you a renewal invite at least 21 days before your renewal date and before 
taking any payment, if your circumstances change or you do not wish to renew 
please call us. 
I can appreciate why, based on the above, Mr G may have believed his policy would 
automatically renew. But looking at the wording, it does state that his details may be used to 
automatically renew his policy, not that they will. So Ive gone on to look at what else UKI did 
to make it clear to Mr G that his policy would not automatically renew.
Mr Gs policy with UKI has a section in it titled 14 Automatic renewal. It states:
When your policy is due for renewal, we may offer to renew it for you automatically 
using the payment details you have already given, unless we or you have advised 
otherwise.
We will write to you at least 21 days before your policy ends and before taking any 
payment to confirm your renewal premium and policy terms. If you do not want to 
renew your policy you must call us before your renewal date to let us know.
It is not possible to offer automatic renewal in all circumstances, for example we may 
need to discuss your renewal invite with you or your payment method may change.
Your renewal invite will advise if your policy will be automatically renewed or if you 
need to call us. If we are unable to offer renewal terms we will write to you at your 
last known address to let you know.
I appreciate that following the initial call, Mr G may have believed his policy would renew 
automatically. But I think the policy made clear that the renewal invite would advise him 
whether or not this would happen, or if hed need to call. So Ive gone on to look at the 
renewal invitation. 
The invite was sent to Mr G on 6 October 2021, more than 21 days before renewal as set 
out in his policy. The opening paragraph of the invite, sets out in bold: 
Dear Mr G, your car insurance is due for renewal on 03/11/20. Please call
us before this date to renew your policy or this cover will expire...
It also says on the front page of the renewal invite:
Please call on the Renewal Customer Helpline to renew your policy or go to website 
address quoted.
Following the renewal invite, Mr G was sent a further reminder letter on 27 October 2021 
which said:
Your motor insurance policy is due to expire soon and we recently wrote to you with 
details of your renewal. We do not appear to have received your instructions to 
renew the policy and are concerned that you may not be covered if you do not 
contact us.So I think both the renewal notice, and subsequent reminder letter, made it clear that Mr G 
needed to take action in order for his policy to renew. And that if he didnt, his cover would 
expire. UKI also said it wrote to Mr G on 1 November 2020 to inform his policy had now 
expired.
 
Mr G said he did not receive the above letters. But UKIs records show that the letters were 
sent to Mr Gs home address. They have also confirmed that address to us, and this is the 
same address documented on Mr Gs policy, and the address we hold on file for him. So Im 
satisfied UKI notified him sufficiently about his policy renewal and the consequences of not 
making contact.
I appreciate this has left Mr G in a difficult position, and I understand that this must be 
frustrating for him. But for the reasons set out above, I dont think his complaint should be 
upheld. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman