DRN-2715453
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Hoist Finance UK Limited didnt send him the documents he 
asked for.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card account from 2013, which was sold to Hoist in 2018. 
In 2020, Mr D asked Hoist for certain documents such as the credit agreement and a deed of 
assignment.
Hoist explained they only had to send a notice of assignment, not a deed, and requested 
other documents from the original creditor. They chased the creditor, but didnt manage to 
get the documents until after Mr Ds complaint had come to our service.
Mr D complained about this, and felt Hoist were harassing him in their contact about the 
account. He also complained that the original creditor had lent to him irresponsibly. He 
asked for the debt to be either written off or passed back to the original creditor.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. By that 
point, the original lender had sent the proper documents to Hoist, so our investigator gave 
them to Mr D. They were satisfied this was Mr Ds genuine debt, which had been sold to 
Hoist, and so it was fair for Hoist to contact him about it. They explained the complaint about 
irresponsible lending would need to be looked at separately against the original creditor, as it 
was them who lent the card and not Hoist. They helped Mr D set up that complaint.
Mr D asked for an ombudsman to look at this afresh, so the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, it was the original creditor who gave Mr D the credit card 
account, and not Hoist. So Im not able to consider his points about irresponsible lending in 
this decision about Hoist. I understand that we have helped Mr D start a complaint against 
the original creditor as a separate case.
I can understand if Mr D wanted to make sure that he really did owe this debt to Hoist, as he 
wouldnt want to pay the wrong company. I can also understand it may have been frustrating 
that it took so long for Hoist to get certain documents, though that appears to have been an 
issue on the original lenders side more so than Hoists. Our investigator gave the relevant 
documents to Mr D, so he has them with him now.
Ive looked carefully at the evidence, including the credit agreement Mr D signed with the 
terms of the account, the electronic record of the account being sold to Hoist, and the notice 
of assignment. I can see that the account references match, and the original lender wrote to 
confirm that they sold Mr Ds debt to Hoist. And Ive not seen any compelling evidence to 
suggest that this is not Mr Ds account. So I think it is his debt. And so I think it was fair for 
Hoist to pursue him for it. 
Hoist sent the relevant notice of assignment, which I think was sufficient to show that they 
now owned the debt. Its not clear why Mr D would also like to see the deed of assignment, 
which is a private document between Hoist and the original debt owner. The deed would 
contain business-sensitive information, but would not contain anything Mr D needs to see, 
and Hoist didnt have any obligation to provide that document to him. So I think its 
reasonable that they havent.
Ive looked at Hoists contact history, and I dont think theyve communicated with Mr D 
excessively or unreasonably so far. I think it was reasonable for Hoist to ask Mr D to pay 
back the debt he now owed them.
I hope I can reassure Mr D that it is quite normal for debts to be bought like this, and that 
Hoist still have a duty to deal with him appropriately. So if he finds himself in difficulties, 
Hoist will need to take that into account and treat him positively and sympathetically, and his 
repayments should be based on what he can actually afford. Mr D may want to get back in 
touch with Hoist to see what assistance they can offer him in repaying the debt. Ive also 
sent Mr D the details for charities who can give him free advice and help in dealing with 
debts. And Mr D can always get back in touch with our service as a separate complaint if he 
later feels that Hoist are not taking his situation into account.
But as things stand now, I cant see that Hoist did anything substantially wrong here, and 
I think it was reasonable that they asked Mr D to repay the money he owes.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Hoist Finance UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman