DRN-4329434
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Astrenska Insurance Limited has turned down a medical 
expenses claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative brought this complaint to us. But, for ease of reading, as the 
claim concerns Mr P, Ive referred mainly to him.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a broker. It provided cover 
between 2 January and 4 April 2023. Mr and Mrs P flew abroad as planned.
Unfortunately, soon after their arrival, following a dentists appointment, Mr P was referred 
for investigations and a biopsy. He was diagnosed with mouth cancer on 16 February 2023. 
Surgery was arranged for 7 March 2023, which was to be followed by a course of 
chemotherapy treatment.
On 25 February 2023, Mr Ps representative got in touch with Astrenskas medical 
assistance team to make a claim. They sent Astrenska copies of Mr Ps biopsy results and 
invoices. Astrenskas medical team reviewed the information it had available. It considered 
that while Mr P needed surgery urgently, he didnt require emergency surgery. So it 
concluded that Mr P was fit to be repatriated back to the UK for treatment on the NHS.
Mr P disagreed with Astrenskas conclusions. He considered that he needed surgery as an 
emergency and he was concerned about the delays he might experience if he had to 
undergo treatment on the NHS. 
Astrenska let Mr P know that if he chose to remain abroad for surgery, despite its 
recommendation to repatriate him, medical cover under the policy would end.
However, Mr P decided to remain abroad for treatment and his representative made a 
complaint to us on his behalf. They felt that Astrenska hadnt fairly considered the available 
medical evidence when considering Mr Ps situation. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He noted that the policy was 
only intended to provide cover for medical emergencies. And that the policy terms 
specifically excluded treatment which, in Astrenskas opinion, could be delayed until a 
policyholder returned to their home country. He felt that Astrenska had reasonably 
considered the available medical evidence and that it was fairly entitled to rely on its medical 
teams opinion to conclude that Mr P had been fit to return to the UK for treatment. So he 
considered that it had been fair for Astrenska to turn down Mr Ps claim.
Mr P disagreed and Ive summarised his representatives submissions. They said that when 
Mr P had been diagnosed, hed been suffering from constant, excessive bleeding from his 
mouth, which had left him unable to eat. This had been the reason Mr P was unfit to fly. 
They said that it had been difficult trying to obtain the documentation Mr P needed to support 
his claim. And given Mr Ps condition, he hadnt been in a fit state to communicate with 
anyone for a few weeks.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P, I dont think Astrenska has 
treated them unfairly and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to say how sorry I was to hear about Mr Ps diagnosis. I dont doubt what a 
worrying time this must have been for him and his family and I do hope his treatment has 
progressed well.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Ps policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether Astrenska 
handled Mr Ps claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mr P and Astrenska. Section nine of the contract terms includes Emergency 
medical expenses and repatriation cover. This sets out the following:
Important Information
Emergency cover  This policy is not private medical insurance; we cover treatment which 
cannot wait until you get home from your trip, with the aim of ensuring you are well enough 
to return to the UK, which may include cutting your trip short, or to continue with your trip as 
planned
Description of cover
1. Emergency medical expenses  This section covers emergency medical expenses, 
up to the sum insured, if during your trip abroad you become ill or suffer an injury and 
it is necessary to receive treatment from a medical practitioner as an inpatient or 
outpatient.
2. Medical repatriation if there is a valid claim under (1), this section provides cover up 
to the sum insured when you are not well enough to return home as planned or 
continue your journey as planned. If you choose not to follow our instructions to 
be repatriated home coverage under all sections of this policy will end.  (My 
emphasis added).
Astrenska has also set out a list of specific exclusions which apply to section nine of the 
policy. One of these states:
What is not covered
Any costs which in the opinion of the treating medical practitioner or in our opinion are not 
medically necessary or can be delayed until your return to your home country.
I think the policy terms make it sufficiently clear that Astrenska will only pay for emergency 
medical treatment which cant be delayed until a policyholder returns home. In this case, Astrenska believes that whilst Mr Ps treatment was urgent, it wasnt an emergency. It 
concluded that Mr P could have been repatriated for treatment on the NHS. So Ive 
considered whether I think this was a fair conclusion for Astrenska to draw.
It's clear that Mr P and his representatives believe that Astrenska didnt have enough 
medical information to fairly assess whether he was fit to fly home, or whether he needed 
emergency medical treatment. Astrenskas notes show that its assistance team were first 
contacted on 25 February 2023  around a week after Mr P had been diagnosed with mouth 
cancer. The notes show that Mr Ps representative told Astrenska that Mr P would need 
surgery and chemotherapy treatment. And Mr Ps representative sent on medical invoices to 
Astrenska for its consideration. This information was passed on to its medical team for 
review. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Astrenska to weigh-up the medical evidence it had prior 
to it receiving Mr Ps full medical report. The review notes make it clear that Astrenska was 
aware of Mr Ps diagnosis; the proposed treatment; his vital signs and medication he was 
receiving. So I think Astrenskas doctor is likely to have had a good understanding of Mr Ps 
diagnosis and health when they reviewed the available evidence.
On 2 March 2023, Astrenskas doctor concluded that Mr P should be repatriated to the UK 
as soon as possible for treatment and that he was fit to fly. As such, Astrenskas medical 
team felt that Mr Ps treatment, while urgent, could be delayed until hed been repatriated for 
treatment on the NHS. It seems repatriation was planned for 5 March 2023. This decision 
was communicated to Mr Ps representative on the following day. I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for Astrenska to rely on the opinion of its medical team when deciding whether 
Mr P should undergo surgery abroad.
It seems Mr P had concerns about repatriation to the UK. The notes indicate that he was 
worried about NHS waiting times. I can understand why Mr P may have preferred to remain 
abroad for treatment which had been agreed by his treating team. However, Ive seen a copy 
of the email Astrenska sent to Mr Ps representative. This email clearly explained that 
Astrenskas medical team considered Mr P was fit to be repatriated on 5 March 2023, for 
treatment in the UK. And it highlighted that if Mr P chose to remain abroad after that date, he 
would no longer have any medical cover under the policy. This is in line with the policy terms 
Ive set out above. So I think Mr P was aware of the impact on his cover if he chose to 
remain abroad for treatment and that no further medical expenses would be covered.
Mr P has provided us with copies of letters from his treating doctors, dated 5 April and 2 May 
2023. These letters post-dated Astrenskas decision not to pay for Mr Ps cancer treatment 
and it didnt have the opportunity to consider them when assessing cover. Im aware though 
that Astrenska has had the chance to review these letters and conclude that neither letter 
changed its position.
The first letter explained that Mr P had presented to his treating hospital with bleeding and 
severe pain. It stated that Mr P has to undergo emergency surgery. The letter explains the 
surgery Mr P underwent on 7 March 2023 and that he would be beginning chemotherapy 
treatment. The May 2023 letter states that Mr P was diagnosed with mouth cancer on 
16/02/023. This required urgent emergency treatment, due to the heavy bleeding in his 
mouth, hence he was not fit to fly back to the UK until the operation and treatment are 
complete.
Ive thought about the letters very carefully because I appreciate they do suggest that the 
treating doctors felt Mr P needed emergency surgery. However, Astrenska didnt think there 
was enough evidence to change its position. It felt that given there was a three-week delay 
between Mr Ps diagnosis and his surgery, the operation wasnt emergency in nature. It considered that this was evidence that while urgent, the surgery could have waited until Mr P 
was repatriated to the UK. And it noted that the doctor had stated that the surgery was 
emergency in nature due to Mr P suffering from heavy bleeding. It queried what treatment Mr 
P had been given between his diagnosis and his surgery and what hed been doing during 
that time, given the symptoms the doctor had said he was experiencing. I dont think these 
are unreasonable queries for Astrenska to have raised. And I dont think the doctors letters 
provide an explanation as to how Mr Ps symptoms affected him or why, in their opinion, he 
was unfit to fly. Given Astrenskas concerns, I dont think it was unfair for it to have 
maintained its decision to turn down Mr Ps claim for his surgical costs.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Ps position, I dont find that Astrenska has 
treated him unfairly or unreasonably. Based on the medical evidence it had available when it 
assessed Mr Ps claim, I think it was reasonable for it to rely on its medical teams 
conclusion that Mr P was fit to be repatriated for NHS treatment. And it made the 
implications of not following its advice clear. Im satisfied too that Astrenska has also taken 
into account the evidence Mr Ps representative has been able to provide since the initial 
claims decision was made. So it follows that I dont find Astrenska acted unreasonably when 
it turned down Mr Ps claim for his surgery and further treatment costs. It will be for 
Astrenska to determine whether any of Mr Ps costs incurred prior to 5 March 2023 are 
payable and I make no finding on that point.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman