DRN-3966521
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by KMD Associates Ltd to transfer the benefits from 
his defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says the 
advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr H is represented in this complaint, but for ease Ill refer only to Mr H.
What happened
Mr H and his wife Mrs H approached KMD in December 2016 to discuss their pensions and 
retirement needs. Mr H later told our Service this was because they were worried about Mr H 
getting another job at that time, so they thought they might access Mrs Hs pension benefits 
to tide them over until Mr H reached age 60 and could access his own pension benefits. 
Mr H says KMD then began looking at his pension too.  
KMD gathered information about Mr Hs circumstances and objectives. Mr H was age 52 and 
was married with three children, one of whom was a dependent. Mr and Mrs H were both 
employed with net annual employment income of £14,000 for Mr H and £25,500 for Mrs H, 
with Mr H having additional annual rental income of £5,500. Their joint annual expenditure 
was £42,000, though KMD didnt record any detail about how that amount was reached. 
Mr H and Mrs H owned three properties worth about £500,000 in total  they had two 
repayment mortgages for these, with outstanding balances totalling £107,000 for which they 
paid £750 in total each month with 16 years left on the mortgage terms. Mr H and Mrs H had 
no other debt. They had joint savings of £2,000 and shares from an employer valued at 
£13,000 (Mr H) and £10,000 (Mrs H). Mr H had decreasing term life insurance with a sum 
assured of £106,807, and expected to receive an inheritance of about £50,000 in the future. 
Mr H also had three pensions  a DB pension with a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
of £1,115,936.53 plus a linked additional voluntary contribution plan worth £10,136.84, and a 
defined contribution (DC) occupational pension that had just started. Mrs H had two 
pensions  one with a transfer value of about £150,000 and a DB occupational pension with 
a pot of about £17,000. 
KMD also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be high 
medium, or six out of ten. 
In February 2017, KMD advised Mr H to transfer his main DB pension into a personal 
pension. It said this would allow Mr H to achieve his objectives of having control and 
flexibility over his retirement income, including the option to withdraw tax free cash (TFC) 
only, and to have better death benefits for his wife and family. Mr H accepted this advice, so 
£1,115,936.53 was transferred from his DB scheme to a new personal pension.
In 2019, Mr H accessed £100,000 of TFC when he reached age 55. He says he used this 
TFC to repay a mortgage held by him and his wife, and a mortgage held by his son.
In 2021, Mr H complained to KMD that its 2017 advice to transfer had been unsuitable 
because hed lost guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme, KMD had assessed his attitude 
to risk too highly, and hadnt properly explained his future lifetime allowance (LTA) tax 
liabilities. 
KMD didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said the transfer met Mr Hs objectives and that he 
was always going to transfer, as hed already obtained his DB pensions CETV prior to 
approaching KMD. And KMD said it had carried out a thorough process in line with the 
regulators requirements, had fully considered Mr Hs circumstances and options, correctly 
assessed his attitude to risk and capacity for loss, and explained the risks and benefits to 
him. So Mr H had made an informed decision to accept to transfer. 
Mr H referred his complaint to our Service. One of our Investigators upheld it. She thought 
KMDs 2017 advice to transfer the DB pension was unsuitable because it would leave Mr H 
worse off in retirement and there were no compelling reasons to transfer. She said KMD 
should put Mr H into the position hed have been in but for its unsuitable advice in 2017 and 
carry out a redress calculation on that basis.
Mr H agreed with our Investigators view. 
But KMD disagreed with our Investigator. It reiterated Mr H wouldve transferred anyway, 
because hed already contacted another financial adviser and obtained a CETV before 
speaking to KMD, and hed told KMD he wanted a guarantee he and his wife could transfer 
their DB pension benefits into personal pensions. KMD said it hadnt encouraged Mr H to 
look at his transfer options and told him not to transfer if he wanted guaranteed income or 
had any doubts. It said Mr H was informed, well-educated and worked at a senior level, and 
was keen to have control over his pension. And he still wanted to transfer his DB benefits, so 
KMD recommended he transfer them. KMD argued Mr H wanted TFC as early as possible, 
which he accessed. That his savings, investments, and properties meant he had significant 
capacity for loss. And that Mr H might retire at age 60 but might also work past this, and his 
new personal pension gave him this flexibility.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, and so the complaint was 
referred for an Ombudsman to make a final decision. 
Whilst that referral was underway, our Service contacted both Mr H and KMD to explain 
that Mr H could choose to have any redress calculated now in line with the regulators 
current guidance in FG 17/9, or he could instead choose to wait for any new 
guidance/rules to be published by the regulator, as expected in early 2023. 
Mr H confirmed he wanted any redress calculated now in line with the regulators current 
guidance, but had nothing else to add. KMD didnt provide a response to this.
On 26 January 2023 I issued my provisional decision. In summary, I said the advice given to 
Mr H was unsuitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By 
transferring, Mr H was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits, and in my view, there 
were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. He was 
also likely to be subject to an LTA tax charge by transferring out. Mr H shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer out of his DB scheme just to have flexibility and control he didnt need, 
and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated 
with his DB scheme. It also wasnt worth the risk of him incurring an LTA tax charge. So, 
KMD shouldve advised Mr H to remain in his DB scheme. 
In my provisional decision, I said KMD should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's DB pension transfer redress methodology. And I said it should also 
compensate him for the LTA charge hed likely incur in future, since this wouldnt be included 
in the usual DB transfer redress guidance, and I set out the assumptions I thought it was fair and reasonable for KMD to use when calculating this. But that, alternatively, if both parties 
preferred, KMD could give Mr H an undertaking to pay any LTA charges he incurs in the 
future (not taking into account further contributions or new pension arrangements). 
Mr H didnt provide any further comments or evidence for me to consider, and he didnt 
express a preference regarding settling his future LTA liability. But he pointed out that KMD 
was now in the process of being wound up. 
KMD provided me with further comments. In summary, KMD said it was no longer trading 
but professional indemnity cover was in place. KMD reiterated why it thought Mr H would 
have still transferred anyway. And said it hadnt recommended or encouraged a transfer  a 
recommendation was not a mandatory part of the advice process at that time. Instead, KMD 
gave Mr H detailed options and told him that if he wanted guaranteed income or had any 
doubts, he shouldnt transfer. KMD said it asked Mr H which option he wanted to choose, 
and he made an informed choice to transfer. KMD had no record of Mr H being worried 
about job security during the advice. And Mr Hs clear objective was full flexibility of his 
pension, including TFC as required and tax efficient income later. KMD said its full pension 
modelling was a like for like comparison to assess the sustainability of Mr Hs personal 
pension. And it preferred to calculate and settle the LTA charge at the final decision date.
As both parties have responded to my provisional decision, Im in a position to make my final 
decision about Mr Hs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must first acknowledge that KMD has stopped trading. KMD has confirmed there is 
professional indemnity cover in place. But if this doesnt cover Mr Hs redress, then Mr H 
may wish to contact the Financial Services Compensation Scheme ( FSCS). The FSCS is 
a scheme of last resort that helps consumers when a financial business is unable  or 
likely to be unable  to pay compensation due from a claim against the business. 
Regardless, I dont think anything Ive been told about KMDs trading status means I cant 
make a decision regarding Mr Hs complaint against KMD. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of KMDs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
I appreciate KMD says it complied with the regulators requirements. But having considered 
all of this and the evidence in this case, Im upholding this complaint.
KMD argues it didnt recommend or encourage a transfer here, but instead gave Mr H 
detailed options and told him he shouldnt transfer if he wanted guaranteed income or had 
any doubts, and Mr H made an informed choice to transfer. I see KMDs suitability report 
noted Mr H liked the flexibility and death benefits available through a personal pension, and 
included warnings about transferring. But it nonetheless clearly went on to say I recommend 
that you transfer to an Old Mutual Wealth Collective Retirement Account. So, I think KMD 
did recommend that Mr H transfer his DB scheme benefits to a personal pension, and the 
weight of that recommendation to transfer out cant be ignored.
It may be that KMD is suggesting it simply recommended which personal pension Mr H 
should invest his DB scheme benefits in, after Mr H had himself chosen to transfer them out. 
But KMD wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what M H needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests. The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 
19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. 
So, KMD should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Hs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
KMD carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Hs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr H was age 52 at the time of the advice. The fact find recorded that he wanted to retire at 
age 60, which was his DB schemes retirement age. KMD now argues Mr H might have gone 
on to retire much later than this. But nonetheless, KMDs 2017 advice was predicated on 
Mr H retiring at age 60 - it recorded that the critical yield required to match Mr Hs benefits at 
age 60 was 8.31% if he took a full pension. 
This compares with the discount rate of 3.4% per year for seven years to retirement in this 
case. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Hs 
high medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. Even if I accepted that KMD 
had correctly assessed Mr Hs attitude to risk, the critical yield was above even the 
regulators higher projection rate and so I think Mr H was likely to receive benefits of a 
materially lower overall value than the occupational scheme at retirement, as a result of 
investing in line with that attitude to risk.
The documents provided by KMD include various financial analyses and modelling. KMD 
may argue that these show Mr H could have been significantly better off in the personal 
pension plan. Ive considered these carefully. They say that under the DB scheme, Mr H was 
entitled to an annual income of £42,630.87 based on taking a full pension from the scheme 
at age 60. But KMD recorded that one of Mr Hs objectives was to have the option of 
accessing TFC and taking a reduced pension at age 60, and it argues that this is one of the 
reasons its advice was suitable for Mr H. But KMDs modelling seems to be based on Mr H 
accessing a full pension - so it doesnt seem to have taken into account any TFC withdrawal 
and therefore doesnt reflect what KMD says Mr H wanted to do.
KMD says its full pension modelling was a like for like comparison to assess the 
sustainability of Mr Hs new personal pension. But its still the case that the modelling 
doesnt seem to show a direct and meaningful comparison between the escalating income 
Mr H was entitled to take through his existing DB scheme, and the same income being 
instead taken through a personal pension to his estimated death. Instead, KMDs 
modelling shows the various ages at which different levels of annual income from the 
personal pension will deplete his pension fund. These show the fund would be depleted at 
some point between age 82 and 98 depending on how much annual income Mr H took 
and the investment growth rate  so there was a real risk of the funds being depleted 
before Mr H died. And there may not have been a large sum left, if any at all, to pass on 
when Mr H died, which Ill return to.
Also, as KMD will know, past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over 
such a long period of time.
For this reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Hs best interests. Of 
course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as KMD has 
argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility 
KMD argues Mr Hs clear objective was full flexibility of his pension, including TFC as 
required and tax efficient income later. But at the time of the advice, I dont think Mr H 
required flexibility in retirement. In my view, this was more of a nice to have rather than a 
genuine objective at that particular time. And I dont think KMD properly challenged this with 
Mr H or made clear to him that while he might wish to access TFC as early as possible and 
defer taking his retirement income, this was not a pressing need such that he needed to take 
risks with his DB pension benefits. 
I say this because while the suitability report suggests Mr H was attracted to transferring his 
DB in order to access TFC, it doesnt say anything about why or when he wanted to access 
TFC, or how much TFC he wanted. I think that if asked, most people might think accessing 
TFC as soon as possible is desirable. But that doesnt mean it was a genuine objective for 
Mr H at the time of the advice or one that he shouldve been encouraged to pursue without 
good reason. Taking TFC reduces the sum available to provide future retirement income. Mr H has recently told us that at the time of the 2017 advice, he was worried about getting 
another job and so they thought they might access Mrs Hs pension benefits to tide them 
over until Mr H reached age 60 and could access his own pension benefits. And hes said 
this was the reason he and his wife were looking for pension advice, and they approached 
KMD to see what it would suggest in respect of Mrs Hs pension. I should be clear that 
KMDs documents at the time of the 2017 advice record Mr H as being employed  they 
dont mention Mr H being concerned about his employment. And KMD has confirmed it has 
no record of Mr H being worried about his job security at that time. Based on the information 
provided to me so far, I can see KMD recorded very little about Mr H and Mrs Hs objectives 
at the time of this advice. And what little it did record about Mr Hs objectives was general 
and not in any detail. 
If Mr H was in this position, I think KMD could have explored other ways for Mr H to fill a 
possible income gap for a time if it came to it. Based on what Mr H has more recently told 
us, it seems he was worried about possibly needing to replace his net annual salary of 
£14,000 for a time  theres no suggestion that he was worried about his rental income or 
Mrs Hs employment income. So KMD could have considered Mr H and Mrs Hs existing 
savings and shares. It could also have considered the significant capital they had in their 
three properties  KMD could have introduced the idea of a loan or even selling a property if 
it became necessary. But in any event this discussion wouldve been premature. And I think 
KMD couldve advised Mr H to revisit the objective of taking TFC nearer to it becoming 
available to him at age 55, at which point hed know how much he wanted and for what 
reason. He could also then assess whether the TFC available to him through his relatively 
new DC scheme was sufficient. And Im mindful that at the time of this advice, Mr H was 
expecting to receive an inheritance of about £50,000 at some unknown point in the future.
I know Mr H accessed £100,00 of TFC in 2019 when he reached age 55. But as Ive 
explained, at the time of KMDs 2017 advice, I dont think he had any genuine need for TFC 
such that he needed to take risks with his DB pension benefits. Rather, he was able to take 
TFC in 2019 simply because KMDs unsuitable advice meant this option was available to 
him. Mr H has explained he used this TFC towards a mortgage held by him and his wife and 
a mortgage held by his son, and Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr H used this TFC to retire 
early or fill the potential salary gap he says he was worried about in 2017. Mr H has also 
explained that he left his last employment in June 2021, and sold a property to allow him to 
take an extended break from employment with the intention of going back to paid 
employment in due course.
So overall, I dont think KMD should have advised Mr H to transfer out of his DB scheme to 
have flexibility and TFC that he didnt really need at that time. Mr Hs desire to access his
pension doesnt outweigh KMDs responsibility to provide him with suitable advice and act in 
his best interest. And Mr H would still have retained the option to transfer out of his DB 
scheme at a later date, should his circumstances dictate that this was in his best interests.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr H. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr H might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr H about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think KMD explored to what extent Mr H was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for the possibility of 
higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr H 
was married and had a dependent child and so the spouses/dependents pension provided 
by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to his spouse and his dependent child if Mr H 
predeceased them. I dont think KMD made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr H. 
This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And the financial modelling 
provided by KMD shows that Mr Hs personal pension fund would be depleted at some point 
between age 82 and 98 depending on how much annual income Mr H took and the 
investment growth rate. So there may not have been a large sum left or the fund may have 
been depleted, particularly if Mr H lived a long life. In any event, KMD should not have 
encouraged Mr H to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr H genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his wife and children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think KMD shouldve instead explored life insurance. I appreciate that at the time of the 
advice, Mr H already had decreasing term life insurance with a sum assured of £106,807. 
Given the decreasing term and that the sum assured matched Mr H and Mrs Hs total 
outstanding mortgage balance, I think its likely this life insurance was taken out as 
protection for the mortgages Mr H held with his wife, and so wouldnt leave Mr Hs wife or 
children with anything once it had been used to repay the mortgages. So KMD should have 
explored additional life assurance with Mr H if he genuinely wanted to provide more lump 
sum death benefits for his family. 
Based on the documents from the time of the advice, Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr Hs 
health meant additional life insurance couldnt have been considered for him, and he and his 
wife had some disposable income at the time of the advice, albeit Mr H says he was worried 
about getting another job at that time. But KMDs suitability report doesnt record any 
discussion about life insurance, and Ive not seen that KMD obtained any quotes for life 
cover for Mr H. So I dont think it gave Mr H enough information on which to base a decision 
about whether or not this was something he wanted or could afford.
The starting point here should have been for KMD to ask Mr H how much he would ideally 
like to leave to his wife and any other beneficiaries, and how much he could afford to 
contribute. Insurance on this basis was likely to be available to Mr H and would have 
enabled him to leave a legacy without risking his retirement income.
Im also mindful that Mr H had a newer DC pension hed be paying into for at least another 
seven years before his planned retirement age of 60. This fund couldve been passed on to 
a beneficiary of his choice at retirement.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. And I dont think that the 
alternative means of providing a legacy for Mr Hs wife and children were properly explored.
Control 
I think Mr Hs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Both Mr H and 
KMD suggest that Mr H closely followed the movements in value of both his DB pension and 
his later personal pension. So I accept Mr H had an interest in the value of his funds. But its 
still the case that Mr H was not an experienced investor, and I cannot see that he had an 
interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his own. This is supported by Mr H choosing to pay KMD 0.3% of the value of his new personal pension 
each year for ongoing advice. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr H  it 
was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Lifetime allowance (LTA)
It appears that because Mr H transferred his DB scheme benefits, he will likely incur an LTA 
charge in future. This is because when he transferred, the value of the scheme benefits 
already exceeded the LTA. The benefits from DB schemes are given a value of 20 times the 
initial annual pension (plus any lump sum that was taken with the pension). According to 
KMDs transfer value analysis, Mr Hs starting pension at age 60 was around £42,630. So, 
for LTA purposes it wouldve been ascribed a value of around £852,600. This was below the 
LTA, so I think that this was another compelling reason not to advise Mr H to transfer his DB 
scheme.
It appears Mr H raised concerns about this just after KMD delivered its recommendation. 
However, the adviser reassured Mr H. The adviser didnt estimate how much the LTA charge 
could be, but instead told Mr H that the possibility of an LTA excess tax charge didnt 
outweigh all of the other attractive features of transferring out, such as inheritability and 
flexibility. But I disagree, for the reasons Ive already explained. Its fair and reasonable that 
this additional loss is covered by KMD as it wont be included in the usual DB transfer 
redress guidance.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr H. But as Ive 
said, KMD wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. Its role 
was to really understand what M H needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr H was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits, and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which 
would justify a transfer and outweigh this. He was also likely to be subject to an LTA tax 
charge by transferring out. Mr H shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of his DB 
scheme just to have flexibility and control he didnt need, and the potential for higher death 
benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. It also wasnt 
worth the risk of him incurring an LTA tax charge.
So, I think KMD shouldve advised Mr H to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr H would've gone ahead anyway, against KMDs 
advice. KMD has reiterated its argument that this is the case here. It says Mr H had already 
contacted another financial adviser and obtained a CETV before speaking to KMD, and hed 
told KMD he wanted a guarantee he and his wife could transfer their DB pension benefits 
into personal pensions.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against KMDs advice. I say this because I think Mr H 
was an inexperienced investor with a broadly medium attitude to risk and this pension 
accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. So, if KMD had provided him with clear 
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.Im not persuaded that Mr Hs concerns about having flexibility, control and potentially better 
death benefits were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a 
professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it 
was suitable for him or in his best interests. If KMD had explained that Mr H could meet all of 
his genuine objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried 
significant weight. So, I dont think Mr H would have insisted on transferring out of the DB 
scheme.
Its also clear that immediately after being given the advice, Mr H raised concerns about the 
impact of the transfer on his LTA. So, if the adviser had given clear advice, that transferring 
could lead him to pay a higher LTA charge in the future, I think he wouldve accepted the 
advice to remain in the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think KMD should compensate Mr H for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for KMD to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for KMDs unsuitable advice to transfer his DB 
pension. I consider Mr H would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable 
advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr H whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect.
He has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr H.
KMD must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.For clarity, I understand that Mr H has not yet retired and has no plans to do so at 
present. So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 60, as per 
the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the 
most recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of my final 
decision.
KMD may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Hs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme 
on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should be paid 
directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income 
tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
KMD should also pay Mr H compensation for future LTA charges. Its impossible to say how 
much additional LTA charges Mr H will have to pay by transferring out of the DB scheme. It 
will depend on many factors like when Mr H will die, how he will use his pensions and what 
returns he will achieve in his personal pension and is highly complex. So I recognise that no 
award in this regard will be perfect, and Mr Hs actual LTA charges might be higher or lower 
in future.
In my provisional decision, I said that if both parties preferred, KMD could give Mr H an 
undertaking to pay any LTA charges he incurs in the future (not taking into account further 
contributions or new pension arrangements). Neither Mr H nor KMD expressed a preference 
for this.
Given this, I think its fair and reasonable to make an award now and bring finality to this 
complaint and certainty for the benefit of both parties. So Im asking KMD to calculate Mr Hs 
LTA charges using the following assumptions:
I can see that at age 55 Mr H crystalised £400,000 of his pension. However, hes currently 
not retired. I dont know when he will retire. For the purposes of this calculation KMD should 
assume that Mr H will be retiring at 60 like he originally planned and will not take further 
benefits until then. It should then be assumed hell take TFC of 25% of his remaining 
drawdown fund at age 60 and an annual gross income until age 75. Again, I dont know how 
much income Mr H will take. I think a reasonable assumption is what he could have taken 
from the DB scheme (after TFC). This sum wasnt recorded at the time of the advice. Given 
that the full income was around £42,000, I think a reasonable assumption would be an 
annual gross income of £30,000 in the circumstances. 
I considered the regulators middle projection rate of 5% and what the suitability report says 
will be the recommended plans charges of 0.99% (0.27% platform charge plus 0.72% fund 
manager charge). So, I think an assumed net growth rate of 4.01% per year should be 
applied to the value of Mr Hs pension at the date of calculation every year until age 75. The LTA might be higher than it is now or lower. In the more recent past, it increased on a 
regular basis, but it is currently frozen until 2026. I think for the purpose of this calculation 
and given the uncertainties in this area, it should be assumed that the LTA remains the 
same as it is now (£1,073,100).
Using the assumptions above, KMD will be able to establish when Mr H would exceed his 
LTA and what the charges are at this point. At age 75, there will be another test of benefits 
against the LTA charge which should be factored in. 
The charges will be 25% of the sum he crystalizes before age 75 exceeding his LTA and 
again at age 75. This represents Mr Hs loss. So, this is the amount Mr H should be 
compensated for. However, it needs to be considered that the amount being paid to Mr H 
now can be reinvested and achieve growth until age 75. So, the loss amount can be 
discounted with the same 4.01% rate for the time between Mr Hs 75th birthday and the date 
of settlement. 
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This 
amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date KMD receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes KMD 
to pay Mr H.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If KMD deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. KMD should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so 
any period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the 
calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont 
apply. 
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new 
guidance or rules come into effect, Id expect KMD to carry out a calculation in line with 
the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair 
compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require KMD Associates Ltd to 
pay Mr H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require
KMD Associates Ltd to pay Mr H any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require KMD Associates 
Ltd to pay Mr H any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
KMD Associates Ltd pays Mr H the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr H.
If Mr H accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on KMD Associates 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my final 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
KMD Associates Ltd should provide details of its calculations to Mr H in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman