DRN-2162462
The complaint
Mr O complains that Nationwide Building Society won't make a payment to him under its 
"Recommend a Friend" scheme.
What happened
Nationwide runs a scheme by which existing customers can introduce new customers to 
Nationwide. Subject to certain conditions being met, the existing and the new account holder 
each receives a payment of £100. I discuss those conditions - and their effect here  in more 
detail below. 
Mr O and his wife held a joint account with Nationwide. As an existing customer, he 
recommended his wife under the scheme, and she applied successfully to open a sole 
account. At the same time, Mr O's wife referred him and he too applied to open a sole 
account, although that's not directly relevant to this complaint. 
Mr O understood that his wife wouldn't qualify for a payment in her capacity as a 
recommended friend, since she had already received a payment under the scheme. He 
considered however that he met the necessary criteria as a "recommender" and should 
therefore receive a payment of £100. Nationwide said, in summary, that because Mr O's wife 
didn't qualify for the payment, he didn't qualify for a payment either; he would only qualify for 
a payment as a recommender if the person he'd recommended qualified. It did however 
credit his account with £50 as it considered it hadn't explained things clearly enough when 
he'd complained.
Mr O referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
took the view that the terms of Nationwide's offer didn't make it sufficiently clear that Mr O 
wouldn't be eligible as a recommender. The investigator thought that Nationwide should 
therefore pay Mr O the £100 he was expecting from recommending his wife. Nationwide 
didn't respond to the investigator's recommendation and so the case was passed to me to 
review.
I considered what had happened and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion 
from that reached by the investigator, issued a provisional decision. I set out below the 
substance of my provisional findings.
Nationwide's "Recommend a Friend" scheme is, like other similar schemes, intended mainly 
to encourage new customers to open accounts, not to incentivise existing customers to open 
more accounts - although it can have that effect. Mr O and his wife were existing joint 
account holders who had already benefited from the scheme. Of itself, however, that doesn't 
mean that Mr O couldn't receive a payment for introducing his wife as a sole account holder. 
That depends to a large extent on the terms of the offer, rather than its commercial aims.
The terms of the offer set out the qualifications and steps that the recommender and 
recommended friend needed to take in order to receive a payment.
The terms included (at sections 8 to 15) a section headed "Payment". Section 8 said that 
Nationwide would pay the recommender and recommended friend if all the conditions set out 
in sections 1 to 7 were met. They also said (at sections 2 and 10) that Nationwide would limit 
the number of payments it made to each recommender to "... the first 5 eligible 
recommendations they make in any one tax year".
Section 11 said that a recommended friend wouldn't be eligible to receive a payment if they 
had already received a payment under the offer. Mr O's wife had received such a payment 
and so wasn't eligible to receive a further one as a recommended friend.
In my view, the effect of section 10 wasn't just that Mr O's wife couldn't receive a payment as 
a recommended friend, but that his recommendation wasn't an "eligible recommendation". 
Since section 10 says that payment will be made for the first five eligible recommendations, 
it follows in my view that it won't be made for recommendations that aren't eligible.
The terms didn't expressly define the phrase "eligible recommendations", but in my view it 
could only sensibly mean recommendations which met the qualifying criteria such that the 
recommended friend received a payment. The alternative interpretation is that any 
recommendation - even including those where the recommended friend's application was 
declined or they didn't operate the account as required - would lead to a payment to the 
recommender. That can't have been the intention. Mr O's wife was clearly not eligible to 
receive a payment, and in my view it follows that his recommendation of her wasn't an 
eligible one.
I didnt recommend that Nationwide take any further steps to resolve Mr Os complaint; 
specifically, I didnt recommend that it make the incentive payment under the scheme. 
Mr O didnt respond to my provisional decision. Nationwide however pointed out that Mr O 
and his wife had both received payments under the scheme in 2016, when they 
recommended each other and each opened a sole account. Whilst Mr O could recommend 
other people (and had done so on several occasions), he couldnt recommend his wife a 
second time. Mr O explained when he brought this complaint that they had later closed those 
accounts, since their joint account met their needs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I concluded in my provisional decision that, because Mr Os wife wasnt eligible for a 
payment because she had already received one. That meant Mr O hadnt made an eligible 
recommendation either, and so also didnt qualify. In my view, Nationwides additional 
comments say much the same thing, but the mere fact that Mr O had received a payment as 
a recommended friend didnt prevent him from receiving further payments as a 
recommender.
Nothing Ive seen in response to my provisional decision however has changed my overall 
conclusions about Mr Os complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Nationwide Building Society to do anything further to 
resolve Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020. Mike Ingram
Ombudsman