DRN-2634181
The complaint
Miss D says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out by phone in 2003. The policy was 
taken out some months after Miss D applied for the credit card. It gave her accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss D disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ds complaint, Ill explain why.
Miss D says she didnt know she had PPI, she never took it out and always said No if 
asked. Miss D applied for her credit card by post in March 2003. At that time she didnt 
select PPI. The PPI was added to her account in August 2003 on a phone call. This 
suggests she would have known it was a separate optional product. The bank cant provide 
a call recording so I can't know exactly what was said but Barclays has provided the call 
scripts that were in place at the time for both inbound and outbound calls. And these show 
the adviser would have made clear PPI was optional and obtained Miss Ds consent to add it 
to her account. I havent found any evidence to suggest that the adviser didnt follow the 
standard sales process. So overall, I think its most likely Barclays made Miss D aware the 
PPI was optional, and she chose to take it. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Miss D, so it needed to check if it was suitable for her.
Based on what I've seen of her circumstances at the time I think it was. Miss D told us she 
was entitled to between three and six months sick pay, but the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to her work benefits for up to 12 months for all successful accident and sickness 
claims. The PPI also gave her up to 12 months redundancy cover. This would have allowed 
her to protect any lump sum redundancy payment from her employer, giving increased 
financial stability at an already difficult time. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful 
for Miss D if she was sick or lost her job. I can understand she might not remember this 
given how long ago the sale was.
I agree its possible the information Barclays gave Miss D about the PPI wasnt as clear as
it should have been. But Miss D chose to take out the policy and so appears to have
wanted this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and
the policy was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and it was apparently affordable. 
So, I think it unlikely Miss D wouldve made a different decision if better information had 
been provided. On balance, I think she would still have taken out the policy.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss D because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) so it should have told Miss D about that. Because Barclays didnt tell 
Miss D, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all
of the cost of the PPI to Miss D.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Miss D any commission and profit
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding Miss Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman