The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Redhawk Legal Ltd (Redhawk) has failed to explain the fees she's 
been charged, and it has employed a debt collector to collect the fees.
What happened
In 2017, Mrs C asked Redhawk to make claims for mis-sold PPI on her behalf. She said she 
received a refund of PPI refund in September 2018. She said she heard nothing from 
Redhawk until November 2019 when she received a letter from a debt collector saying they 
were acting on behalf of Redhawk. She says debt collection fees have been added to the 
original fees, and she says these could have been avoided if Redhawk had contacted her 
sooner.
Redhawk said it obtained PPI refunds for Mrs C, and it'd made several attempts to contact 
her by letter, telephone, email and text message to arrange payments of the fees. It also 
confirmed it had passed her account to an external debt collection agency because it'd 
reached the end of its own collection process.
Our investigator felt that Redhawk had acted reasonably. She found that it had made 
successful claims on Mrs C's behalf, and it was clear about the fees being owed. She also 
felt that it had reasonably contacted Mrs C about the fees. She asked why Redhawk had 
passed the account to an external debt collector, and overall felt that Redhawk had acted 
fairly and reasonably.
Mrs C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I'm not upholding this complaint. I'll 
explain why.
It's not disputed that Mrs C asked Redhawk to make claims for PPI refunds on her behalf.
I can see that Redhawk made six successful claims. Mrs C has provided a copy of an email 
she received from Redhawk in July 2017. This confirms PPI refund offers were made by one 
of the lenders, and it also included an invoice setting out the fees Redhawk was charging. 
So I'm satisfied that Redhawk did tell her about the offers, and what fees it was due based 
on the offers made. 
Mrs C said it wasn't clear whether she should respond to the lender or to Redhawk - but 
she's also provided a copy of an email she received from Redhawk in October 2017. This 
DRN-1808360advised her the lenders were waiting for her to complete acceptance slips. Importantly it also 
gave her a contact at Redhawk should she need further information. So based on this, and 
the other correspondence I've seen (listed by our investigator in emails she sent to Mrs C), 
I'm satisfied that Redhawk told Mrs C what PPI refunds had been made by her lenders, and 
what fees she owed.
There was a delay in some payments being made to Mrs C, with some refunds not being 
paid until August 2018. It looks like this was because of the delay in Mrs C returning the 
acceptance forms. But it remains the case that Redhawk made claims on Mrs C's behalf, 
and she obtained refunds because of those claims. Therefore, I'm satisfied that the fees 
claimed by Redhawk are reasonable and in line with the service Mrs C signed up for.
The fees charged by Redhawk are in line with the terms Mrs C signed up to in 2017. As this 
was before the regulator imposed a cap on the level of fees in April 2018, it's reasonable for 
Redhawk to still claim the fees set out in the invoices.
Mrs C is also unhappy that Redhawk passed her details to an external debt collection 
agency. I'm satisfied that this was also a reasonable step for it to take. It made Mrs C aware 
of the fees she owed, and I can see it made numerous attempts to contact her by text and 
email. And in December 2017, it informed her it would be passing her account to an external 
debt collection agency. It stopped sending reminders when it reached the end of its internal 
collection process, and made a commercial decision in 2019 to outsource its collections 
activity. This is a reasonable step for it to take, like many organisations.
It's unfortunate that this meant it was more than a year later before Mrs C was contacted 
again. But the debt is still owed, and the law allows a debtor in most cases up to six years to 
collect a debt. So I don't think it's unreasonable for Redhawk to ask an external debt 
collection agency to purse Mrs C for the outstanding fees.
Mrs C will need to formally complain to the debt collector if she's unhappy with the 
collection fees they've added to the original debt.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint. I don't require Redhawk Legal 
Ltd to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31July2020.
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman