DRN-3884650
The complaint
Mr D complaint about Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Link Financial (Link)s 
actions when seeking to collect it bought in his name. 
What happened
Mr D had a loan with a business Ill call C. From 2017 onwards, the outstanding balance 
remained at £9,970. In April 2022 Link sent Mr D a Notice of Assignment (NOA) confirming it 
had purchased the debt from C and that he should contact it to make arrangements for 
repayment. C also sent Mr D a Notice of Assignment confirming it had sold the debt to Link. 
Mr D complained to Link and it issued a final response. Link said Mr D remained liable for 
the outstanding balance. Link forwarded a copy of the original credit agreement to Mr D. 
Mr D went back to Link and said the original credit agreement didnt show the state of his 
account at the point it was closed and sold. Link sent a follow up final response, including a 
statement from 2018. The statement showed the balance was £9,970 when the account was 
closed by C. The statement shows an adjustment, leaving the account balance at £0 in 
August 2018. 
Mr D referred his complaint to us and it was passed to an investigator. They thought Link 
had dealt with Mr Ds complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr D asked to appeal and said he didnt agree that Link had followed the correct process 
when the debt was purchased. Mr D also said C hadnt notified him of the transfer as hed 
only received a copy of its letter as an enclosure from Link. Mr D added that the transfer 
process shouldve been completed 28 days after he received the NOA and that he hadnt 
been given adequate notice. Mr D said that Link had failed to answer his complaint or 
provide him with the outcome of its investigation concerning whether the debt was valid. As 
Mr D asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D has concerns about the actions of both Link and C. I want to explain that 
in this decision, Im only going to talk about Links actions. Im not going to make a decision 
about whether C made mistakes or treated Mr D unfairly. If Mr D has concerns about Cs 
actions, theyll have to be considered separately by that business. 
Mr D says Link failed to give the necessary notice when it bought his debt from C. CONC 6.5 
talks about the assignment of rights when one business sells a debt to another. It gives the 
following information: 
Where the rights of a lender under a regulated credit agreement are assigned to a firm, that 
firm must arrange for notice of the assignment to be given to the customer:
1. (a) as soon as reasonably possible; or
2. (b) if, after the assignment, the arrangements for servicing the credit under the 
agreement do not change as far as the customer is concerned, on or before the 
first occasion they do.
Mr Ds told us the rules required Link to give him 28 days notice from the point he received 
the Notice of Assignment. But I havent seen anything that shows the way Link purchased 
Mr Ds debt and notified him was unfair. 
Mr Ds also asked for statements showing the recent state of the account. Link has supplied 
the statement that shows C closing Mr Ds account in 2018. The statement shows there was 
a debt of £9,970 at the point it was closed. The statement doesnt show any payments or 
other activity on the loan in the months before it was closed. If Mr D is concerned that the 
balance Link was assigned when it purchased his debt is wrong, he would need to take that 
issue up with C directly. I note the statement closed with a £0 balance. But the credit of 
£9,970 is noted as an adjustment which was used to close the account. The statement 
doesnt show that the loan was settled following a payment from Mr D. 
When Mr D raised concerns over the validity of the debt Link is seeking to collect he asked it 
to go back to C to dispute it. I know Mr D feels the information it went on to obtain wasnt 
sufficient for that purpose. But Link obtained a copy of the original loan agreement along with 
a copy of the final statement that shows there was an outstanding balance when the account 
was closed. Ive also seen copies of the Notices of Assignment sent by Link and C. In my 
view, Link did supply information that showed it has a legitimate reason to contact him for 
repayments. Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but Im satisfied Link dealt with his dispute fairly.  
As Im satisfied Link dealt with Mr Ds complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman