DRN-3749331
The complaint
Mr A complains that etika Finance UK Limited are seeking repayment from him under a fixed 
sum loan agreement. 
What happened
In September 2017, Mr A says he enquired about starting a course with a company Ill call 
G. He says G told him it would provisionally book him onto the course and he could decide 
later if he wanted to go ahead with it. He says G also said it would complete a credit check to 
see if he would be eligible for finance in order to pay for the course. 
Mr A says he later discovered that G had signed him up to the course as well as a fixed sum 
loan agreement with etika, both without his consent. He says he didnt sign a credit 
agreement or agree to take out finance. He says he tried to cancel with G and with etika but 
both had declined his requests. He says that the loan agreement was taken out fraudulently 
and the course was also mis-sold to him. Further, he says G has now closed down, so it isnt 
possible for him to complete the course anyway. He complained to etika because it refused 
to cancel the finance and remove adverse information from his credit file. That complaint 
wasnt upheld. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that Mr A had 
agreed to enter into a loan agreement with etika and that he was given sufficient information 
about the details of the loan and the timeframe in which he could withdraw from it. He said 
that Mr A hadnt asked to come out of the finance agreement until almost three months later 
and instead hed had conversations with G about changing the course start dates, indicating 
he was aware hed signed up to the course and the loan. 
The investigator didnt think Mr A had demonstrated that the course had likely been mis-sold 
to him and although G was no longer in business, this isnt what prevented Mr A from 
completing the course as G didnt cease trading until November 2019. As Mr A hadnt made 
his payments towards the loan, he didnt think etika needed to remove the adverse 
information from his credit file. 
Mr A didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr A feels very strongly about the actions of G. He says that G was shut down 
because of fraudulent practice, which included selling him the course and loan agreement. 
However, hes not provided any persuasive evidence to demonstrate that is why G ceased 
trading. In any event, the complaint Im considering is about etika, not G. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of holding etika responsible for 
the antecedent negotiations between G and Mr A when entering into the loan agreement. 
Therefore, anything said or done by G in relation to the sale of the course financed by the 
loan agreement is to have been said on behalf of etika. Further, section 75 of the same Act 
has the effect of holding etika jointly responsible for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by G in relation to the course that was financed by the loan agreement. 
Mr A says that G misled him into thinking that the course and loan agreement had only been 
provisionally agreed. Mr A says he understood this to mean that he wasnt bound by any 
terms or obliged to enter the course or loan, but he simply had the option to do so at an 
unspecified later date if he wanted to.
The credit agreement was electronically signed. Mr A says that G must have done this 
fraudulently without telling him. Having considered everything thats been said and provided, 
Im not persuaded thats the case. 
I say this because Ive seen that etika sent Mr A an email copy of the signed loan 
agreement, to the same email address he has used in his correspondence with our service. 
Mr A was therefore made aware by etika (not G) that he had entered into a loan agreement 
and that he had 14 days within which to withdraw from it if he had changed his mind. 
I cant see that Mr A contacted etika until the end of November 2017, two months after 
entering into the course and loan. At this point Mr A didnt make any complaint to etika about 
having entered into a loan agreement or the course. Instead, Mr A said that he didnt think 
he had to pay until the course had actually started  which was due to be in January 2018. 
So, it seems at this point Mr A was aware that he had enrolled on the course and had 
entered into a loan agreement with etika. Mr A only then complained to etika a few weeks 
later but this was to say the course had been mis-sold to him, not that he didnt agree to take 
out the loan. 
As he didnt complain when he received the loan agreement from etika or when he contacted 
them two months later, Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr A had agreed to enter into the loan 
agreement in September 2017. Im not persuaded this was done without his knowledge or 
consent. I therefore dont think etika has acted unfairly or unreasonably in seeking 
repayment from Mr A.
Mr A also says the course was mis-sold by G. However, he hasnt provided anything 
persuasive to make me think there was any misrepresentation by G about the course that 
etika would be jointly responsible for.  
Lastly, Mr A says that as G is no longer trading he cant complete the course anyway. 
However, Im not persuaded Mr As inability to complete the course is because of any breach 
of contract by G that etika would be jointly responsible for. This is because Mr A had 
between January 2018 and November 2019 to complete the course if he had wanted to. 
I understand this was more than sufficient time for him to have completed it. However, Mr A 
chose not to complete any of the course or indeed start it. 
I havent seen anything to indicate that G had agreed to allow Mr A an indefinite period of 
time in which to complete the course. And in any event, Im satisfied the reason Mr A hasnt 
completed the course is due to his choice, rather than any breach of contract by G. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman