DRN-4194416
The complaint
Mr B complains about a new car he acquired through a conditional sale agreement with 
Tesla Financial Services Limited. Mr B says the car was damaged when he received it and 
attempts at repairing the damage have not been successful. He has asked that the car be 
repaired, at a location of his choice, replaced or the agreement is cancelled, and the car is 
returned. 
What happened
Mr B took possession of a new car in early September 2022. On delivery, it was clear there 
were a number of areas of the cars bodywork that were defective, along with the general 
appearance and cleanliness of the exterior that was not what one would expect from a new 
car. 
The car was returned so the bodywork issues could be rectified but they were not completed 
to the required standard. A second attempt was made but these repairs again were not 
adequate. After not being able to resolve matters with Tesla Financial Services Limited Mr B 
referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint and 
set out why they considered the complaint should be upheld. In summary, they found the car 
was not of satisfactory quality and as the two attempts at repair were unsuccessful, Mr B 
should now be allowed to reject the car.
Tesla Financial Services Limited did not accept the investigators conclusions and said it 
believes the redress was a little disproportionate. As the complaint could not be resolved 
informally it has been referred to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator for what 
are broadly the same reasons. 
Tesla Financial Services Limited supplied the car to Mr B through the conditional sale 
agreement and is therefore responsible for the quality of the car when provided to Mr B. 
There is no dispute the car had issues with the bodywork when it was supplied, nor does 
there appear to be any dispute the two attempts at repair have been unsuccessful. Having 
considered the circumstances of this complaint I am satisfied there were defects with the 
bodywork when the car was supplied, and after the attempted repairs. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 sets out the test and expectations for satisfactory quality and 
although it will depend on the circumstances of any given case, it is relevant in my view that 
Mr B was acquiring a car that cost almost £60,000 and was brand new. It is therefore 
reasonable in my view for Mr B to have high expectations of the car and its condition. And 
for the car to be free from minor defects, as set out in the Consumer Rights Act 2015. 
Considering the car was new, its price and the defects with the bodywork, I am satisfied the 
car was not of satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr B.  
Putting things right
When considering what Tesla Financial Services Limited should do to put things right I have 
had regard to the remedies set out the Consumer Rights Act 2015. I note that two prior 
attempts at repair have been unsuccessful and I do not therefore consider Mr B should be 
put through the time and trouble of a third attempt at repair, especially without any clear 
assurances of all of the issues being remedied. I am also mindful that it is possible that any 
patched repairs will not be to the same standard as the factory applied paintwork. 
Sourcing a replacement vehicle is often difficult, especially when trying to find the right 
model, colour and specification. And this may also take some time and Mr B is Im sure keen 
to move on.
Having considered all of the circumstances here, I find that it would fair and reasonable for 
Mr B to now end his agreement with Tesla Financial Services Limited with nothing further 
owed and Tesla Financial Services Limited should arrange for the car to be taken back. Any 
collection costs are not Mr Bs responsibility and Tesla Financial Services Limited should 
ensure the collection is arranged swiftly and at a convenient time for Mr B. 
Mr B has had fair usage of the car and I think it is therefore reasonable that he pays for the 
usage hes had. I consider the monthly rentals that Mr B has paid while using the car, and 
the courtesy cars, are reasonable for the use Mr B has had and like the investigator, I do not 
therefore direct Tesla Financial Services Limited to refund the monthly rentals Mr B has paid 
to the conditional sale agreement. 
Mr B should however be refunded the deposit/down payment he made at the start of the 
agreement and interest at 8% simple should be added to this sum from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement. 
Mr B has referred to Tesla Financial Services Limited potentially delaying matters while he is 
still required to make the monthly rentals to the conditional sale agreement. Tesla Financial 
Services Limited should implement all of the redress elements I have set out here swiftly, 
upon receipt of Mr Bs acceptance of this decision. Once the car has been collected, Tesla 
Financial Services Limited should ensure no further repayments are taken from Mr B. If any 
are, they should be refunded quickly. 
Mr B has also been put to some trouble and upset, plus having the experience of getting a 
new car tarnished to some extent. Mr B had to arrange two separate repairs and Im sure 
was disappointed both times when he realised they were inadequate repairs. In addition to 
what I have set out above Tesla Financial Services Limited should pay Mr B a further £250 
in recognition of the distress and inconvenience he has been caused. 
I note that Tesla Financial Services Limited believes this remedy to be a little 
disproportionate but I completely disagree. An alternative would be to insist Mr B make do 
with a poor quality vehicle or allow even further attempts at repair. I do not consider that to 
be fair or reasonable and I am satisfied the remedy set out above is appropriate and 
proportionate in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Tesla Financial Services Limited  
and instruct Tesla Financial Services Limited to settle the complaint in line with what I have set out in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman