DRN-3613505
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) avoided their touring caravan 
insurance policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay their claim.
References to Mr M or Mrs M, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of Amtrust involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Amtrust.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a touring caravan insurance policy with Amtrust in 2017 through a 
broker. The policy was renewed each year. 
In October 2021 when their caravan was stolen from its storage location Mr and Mrs M tried 
to make a claim on their touring caravan insurance policy.
When Amtrust looked to validate their claim it found that the gates to the caravan storage 
location were unlocked between 8.00am and 5.30pm. This was not what had been stated on 
Mr and Mrs Ms insurance application or annual renewals.  Mr and Mrs M had stated the 
caravan storage location was a secure area, which is permanently locked shut, except for 
entry and exit purposes. 
Amtrust said it considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it 
to avoid their policy and decline their claim because of this. Amtrust refunded all the policy 
premiums.
Mr and Mrs Ms caravan was found in January 2022, although there was damage to it and 
some personal belongings were missing. 
Mrs M brought their complaint to us and our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. 
They agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and didnt think this was 
deliberate or reckless. They believed it was careless. They thought Amtrust were entitled to 
avoid Mr and Mrs Ms policy and decline their claim. And it had correctly refunded the 
premiums theyd paid.
Mrs M does not agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
I looked at the policy statement of fact documents that were issued each year. Each one 
says;
Section 4: Storage
It is a condition of this policy that you must notify us if the declared storage location changes 
during the period of insurance.
Storage location: A registered caravan site the address was detailed.
Then there were four questions including; 
Is the caravan stored inside a secure area protected by perimeter fencing encompassing 
the entirety of the site and behind an entrance / exit gate, which is permanently locked shut 
except for entry and exit purposes?
Mr and Mrs M responded yes to this question.  
Each year when their policy was due for renewal a statement of fact was produced. This 
same question was included each year and I saw that each year it was recorded as yes. It 
is Mr and Mrs Ms responsibility to ensure the questions and answers are checked and any 
inaccuracies are brought to the attention of their broker.
Mrs M said this question is extremely unfeasible to maintain permanently, either for most 
caravan storage sites or for caravan owners to adhere to all the time when they are away in 
the caravan or it is at their home address. She said there was no option to amend this 
question.
However this question is only in reference to when the caravan is being kept at the recorded 
storage location. I think this is clear in the documentation because the specific section was 
titled Section 4: Storage and the address of the site was included immediately before the 
questions that required a yes or no answer. 
After consideration of this evidence I dont think Mr and Mrs M took reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when they took out their policy or when the policy renewed as the 
answer to this question did not change. 
Amtrust has provided evidence by way of its underwriting criteria, that had the caravan 
storage question been answered correctly when Mr and Mrs M made their application for 
insurance in 2017 it would not have provided any cover. 
This means Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Ms misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Amtrust has treated Mr and Mrs Ms misrepresentation as careless. 
I agree with this as I dont believe the misrepresentation was either deliberate or reckless.As Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Ms misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked 
at the actions Amtrust can take in accordance with CIDRA.
In accordance with CIDRA, as Amtrust would not have offered cover it can avoid the policy 
for a careless misrepresentation. It can avoid the policy from the point of misrepresentation 
which in this case is from the start of the policy in 2017.  This means it must 
Treat the policy as though it never existed from the start and not deal with any 
claims.
Return any unused premiums the consumer paid.
Ive seen that Amtrust have avoided the policy, not dealt with the claim, and returned the 
premiums paid from the start of the policy in 2017.
I am truly sorry to hear Mr and Mrs M were the victims of a crime. I do realise this has been 
both an upsetting and stressful time for them and they have also suffered a financial loss. 
I can assure them I have taken their complaint very seriously, but as CIDRA reflects our 
long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Amtrust to rely on it 
to avoid Mr and Mrs Ms policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman