DRN-1770568
The complaint
Miss N complains St Andrews Insurance plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy in 2003 in connection with a personal loan. 
What happened
Miss N initially made her complaint to her lender but St Andrews Insurance accepted 
responsibility for looking at this complaint. So I will refer to St Andrews Insurance in this 
decision.
Miss N said she was pressured to buy PPI; she said she was told if she didnt take the PPI, 
she wouldnt get the loan. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Our adjudicator said that it was 
made clear the policy was optional and that Miss N was given enough clear information to 
make her own decision about it.
Miss N didnt agree with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at 
again by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant issues to take into account are the same as those set out on our website 
about our approach to PPI complaints.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ns complaint. I know this will disappoint her, so Ive set out 
my reasons below.
I first looked at whether St Andrews Insurance made her aware the policy was optional. 
St Andrews Insurance said the sale was done by a postal mailing. So the loan and PPI 
application form were most likely sent to Miss Ns home address. I have seen a copy of the 
direct debit mandate which was sent separately to Miss N and which said the PPI would be 
set up once shed signed and returned the direct debit mandate. As this was a separate 
document, I think PPI most likely was shown to be an optional product. And I couldnt see 
any evidence of pressure.
St Andrews Insurance said the sale was non-advised. For non-advised sales, it had to give 
Miss N enough clear information so she could make her own decision about it. So I first 
looked at her circumstances at the time of the sale to see what sort of cover she might have 
needed.
Miss N was eligible for the PPI cover, so she satisfied the criteria to be able to buy it. She 
said she had good employee benefits. But I think she probably would have needed cover if 
she couldnt work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. And I think the benefit from the PPI would have given her some income in addition to and for longer than her sick pay 
and any savings she may have had to make the loan repayments. 
I then looked whether Miss N had enough clear information about PPI. 
I dont think she was affected by the main things not covered by the policy (the exclusions). 
So even if shed been given detailed information about the exclusions, I dont think it would 
have changed her decision about buying the policy.
I have seen the direct debit mandate which did set out the cost of the PPI quite clearly. The 
mandate was signed by Miss N  and its reasonable to assume she would have checked 
the loan details before signing as she had time to do so. So I think she probably saw the cost 
of the policy. And I dont think that any more detailed information about the cost and benefit 
would have changed her mind about buying it.
In summary, I think Miss N had a need for cover and so she chose to have PPI. I also think 
she still would have bought the policy even if shed been given more detailed information. 
This means that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman