DRN-3589690
The complaint
Mr A complains about a default marker Barclays Bank UK Plc have recorded against him 
with the credit reference agencies. Hed like the marker removed.
What happened
Mr A held a current account with Barclays. In June 2020 two payments left his account 
totalling £97,900  which was significantly more than the available balance on the account at 
the time. This left the account in a very large unarranged overdraft. They payments had 
been made using Mr As debit card.
Barclays cancelled Mr As debit card and sent letters asking him to repay the full amount. 
They say they received information from the merchant that Mr A had been attempting to 
make a payment to obtain goods. £7,900 was returned by the merchant, and the rest of the 
money was recovered via chargeback. 
In August 2020 Barclays took the decision to close Mr As account and wrote to him to tell 
him this. They recorded a marker with the fraud prevention agency CIFAS, which said Mr A 
had been involved in first party fraud. They also recorded a default marker against Mr A, but 
marked it as satisfied as the money had been recovered.
Mr A complained about this, and initially Barclays removed the CIFAS marker. But they later 
felt this was an error, but as not to disadvantage him decided not to record it again. But they 
said they would not be removing the default marker. But they did offer to pay Mr A £150 for 
providing incorrect information about removing the default, and for a delay in issuing their 
final response.
Unhappy with this Mr A referred the complaint to our service, asking for the default to be 
removed. Our investigator felt the complaint should succeed. They said that the letters Mr A 
received didnt meet the standard for a default notice as per the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
and couldnt be treated as such. They felt is was unfair for Barclays to record the default 
marker. They asked for the marker to be removed, and for Barclays to pay an additional 
£100 compensation for the impact of it.
Barclays disagreed, saying that default marker was applied in line with their internal 
guidance when there is an allegation of first party fraud. They said the requests for 
repayment were sufficient before recording the default marker. But the investigator 
responded to say they didnt think a default was a standard or appropriate marker to record 
in these circumstances.
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to decided. I requested 
additional information from both parties which has now been received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key question for me to consider is whether it is reasonable for Barclays to record Mr As 
account as defaulted. A default is usually recorded if someone fails to meet their financial 
obligations under an agreement with a financial business.
There are steps that are generally expected before a default is recorded with credit 
reference agencies  such as writing to the consumer to outline the nature of the failure, and 
what they can do to rectify this. Ive reviewed the correspondence available between Mr A 
and Barclays and I cant say these requests for repayment meet these criteria. But I also 
recognise that in some cases it wont be necessary.
However, in this case the dispute isnt around whether Mr A met his financial commitments 
to Barclays. The account was significantly overdrawn, but this wasnt because Mr A had 
failed to repay borrowing. Instead it appears Barclays suspected him of trying to defraud the 
bank by forcing through a payment when he knew there wasnt enough money in the 
account. If this was the case then the appropriate marker to record would be with a fraud 
prevention service, such as CIFAS, so long as the standard of evidence required is met.
Barclays have now removed the CIFAS marker, and dont intend to put it back on. Mr A has 
accepted he was using the card, but disputes that he was deliberately trying to push through 
a payment  hes said he was expecting the money to be paid in by his brother, and if there 
wasnt enough money in the account he assumed the payments would fail. Barclays have 
said they no longer hold the technical evidence from the transactions. I think it unlikely 
Barclays could now meet the standard of proof to record a marker with CIFAS.
I note Barclays recovered the funds that left Mr As account, so hasnt suffered a loss. Im 
not persuaded that recording the account as defaulted  albeit satisfied  is appropriate, and 
Barclays are unreasonable to have recorded it this way. As such, it should be removed.
Having reviewed the terms of Mr As account Im satisfied it was reasonable for Barclays to 
close his account in the manner they did  it was significantly overdrawn.
Barclays have already offered Mr A £150 compensation to cover this misinformation given to 
him, and for delays in responding to his complaint. Ive also gone on to consider the impact 
of the default marker on him. He has mentioned difficulty in obtaining a phone contract and 
other forms of credit. 
Overall, Im satisfied the default marker would have made obtaining financial services more 
difficult and inconvenient for him  although if Barclays hadnt removed the CIFAS marker 
the impact would likely have been greater. Taking all this into account, Im satisfied an 
additional £100 compensation would be reasonable to reflect the impact of the default 
marker.
My final decision
To resolve this complaint Barclays Bank UK Plc must:
Remove any negative information about this account from Mr As credit file
Pay him £100 compensation in addition to the £150 previously offered - £250 in total
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023. 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman