DRN-1312454
 
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) handled a claim 
he made on his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr S boiler started leaking. So Mr S family didnt have any hot water in their 
home. He made a claim on his home emergency policy. One of British Gas engineers came 
out, but thought the leak needed to be dealt with by another of British Gas contractors. The 
following day, a contractor attended, but referred the repairs back to British Gas.
British Gas returned to Mr S home, but again, the engineer decided the other contractor 
needed to deal with the works. An appointment was made for that contractor to come out 
and Mr S wife took the day off work to ensure someone was home. But the appointment 
was cancelled without Mr S being told. The contractor didnt turn up.
Another one of British Gas engineers went out to look at the boiler. He thought the hot water 
cylinder needed to be replaced. He ordered the part he needed and told Mr S the delivery 
date would be about five days later. 
But the part wasnt in stock. And so the delivery date was put back by a couple of days. 
British Gas didnt let Mr S know about the change in date, so a relative spent a day waiting 
at the house unnecessarily. 
The repairs were carried out just over a week later. But the installing engineer didnt remove 
an at risk sticker from the boiler, so Mr S and his family thought the boiler wasnt safe to use 
for another day.
Mr S was unhappy with the service hed got from British Gas and he complained. He was 
unhappy with the time his wife and relative had wasted on appointments that hadnt 
happened; the time hed had to spend making calls; and the impact of being without hot 
water for around three weeks had had on his family  particularly on a vulnerable family 
member. 
British Gas acknowledged thered been mistakes in the handling of Mr S claim. It initially 
offered Mr S compensation of £150 for the trouble and upset its handling of the claim had 
caused him and his family. Mr S rejected the offer and asked us to look into his complaint. 
British Gas then increased its offer to £300. But Mr S still didnt think this was enough to 
make up for British Gas poor handling of his claim. He thought about £1000 would be the 
right level of compensation.
Our investigator didnt think British Gas had offered Mr S enough compensation. So she 
recommended that it should offer Mr S a further amount of £100  making total 
compensation of £400. She thought this more fairly represented the impact the claim had 
had on Mr S and his family.British Gas disagreed. It thought its offer of £300 was fair in the circumstances.
So the complaints been passed to me.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think British Gas should 
increase its payment of compensation to a total of £400. Ill explain why.
British Gas accepts that it made a number of errors when it was dealing with Mr S claim. It 
acknowledges that its first engineer shouldve identified what the problem was at the outset 
and ordered a replacement part there and then. If the engineer had done so, allowing for 
delivery time, it seems Mr S boiler couldve been fixed within about a week.
British Gas acknowledges that its engineers shouldnt have referred the claim onto another 
contractor, not just once, but twice. It mustve been very frustrating for Mr S to have the 
responsibility for getting the repairs done passed between two different companies. This 
culminated in the other contractor not turning up to a planned appointment without  anyone 
telling Mr S the appointment had been cancelled. This meant Mr S wife had taken a day off 
of work unnecessarily and suffered inconvenience and disappointment.
One of British Gas engineers was able to work out what was causing the problem about a 
week after Mr S first made his claim. He ordered a replacement part and it seems he told Mr 
S the repairs could be carried out around five or six days later. Mr S arranged for a relative 
to stay at home while the repairs were done.
But while British Gas knew the part was out of stock and delivery would be delayed, it didnt 
let Mr S know about this. I can see that it tried to call Mr S a few times to tell him about the 
delay and to rearrange a delivery. But it repeatedly called Mr S landline number. And Mr S 
had told British Gas that the landline number had been disconnected and it needed to 
contact him either on his mobile or at work. 
Given Mr S had provided British Gas with explicit instructions about how to contact him, I 
think it shouldve ensured its records were up to date. Had it done so, it seems likely British 
Gas wouldve been able to tell Mr S about the delayed appointment. This means his relative 
wouldnt have put been to time and inconvenience for no reason.
British Gas records suggest the actual repair date was scheduled for the next available date 
in its diary, which seems reasonable. I do have to bear in mind though that it seems this 
repair happened around two weeks later than it shouldve done if the original engineers had 
correctly diagnosed the problem. 
In deciding what an appropriate award for trouble and upset is, I need to think about the 
impact the mistakes British Gas made had on Mr S. It seems much of the delay in getting the 
repairs done was avoidable. He and his family were without hot water for around three 
weeks, when I think the repair shouldve been done in a third of that time. Hes told us about 
the alternative arrangements the family had to make  including visiting family to use their 
hot water. 
Even leaving aside the avoidable delays, Mr S and his family were put to extra 
inconvenience because of the cancelled appointments which Mr S wasnt told about. His 
wife and relative wasted time waiting for visits that never happened and Mr S had to make 
far more calls than he shouldve had to. And Mr S also has a vulnerable family member, who is distressed by changes in routine. Hes told us the first engineer was aware of this and hes 
told us about the effect the claim had on that family member.
Putting things right
Overall, in the individual circumstances of this complaint, I think £400 is fair compensation 
for Mr S trouble and upset. This means British Gas needs to add another £100 to the £300 
its already offered. Mr S said he didnt cash the initial cheque British Gas sent him for £150 
and he says this has now expired. So British Gas may need to issue payment of the full 
£400. 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint.
I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr S a total amount of £400 for his trouble and 
upset. This includes the £300 it has already offered him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman