DRN-2304016
The complaint
 Mrs H complains that a car acquired with finance from Black Horse Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
 In October 2016 Mrs H was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Black Horse. At the point of supply, the car was around 3  years old and had covered 
around 70,000 miles.
In August 2018 the car broke down whilst Mrs H was on holiday overseas. The car was 
recovered to a garage who diagnosed an issue with the crank mechanism, the turbo charge 
and the drive train and advised that the engine needed replacing. Mrs H paid for the repairs 
herself.
Later, Mrs H received a vehicle recall letter regarding the engine. She thinks the recall letter 
is relevant to the engine fault she experienced.
In July 2019 Mrs H experienced issues with the car shaking when she put it into gear. A fault 
was diagnosed with two of the injectors.
Mrs H contacted the manufacturer, who said it wasnt responsible because the car was out 
of warranty and hadnt been serviced by approved dealerships.
Mrs H contacted the garage who had serviced the car according to the service history sheet. 
It advised her that it had no records on its system. Mrs H asked the supplying dealer to 
provide a service history of the car. She felt the service history provided at the point of 
supply wasnt sufficient and didnt evidence services being carried out in line with the 
manufacturers recommendation. The supplying dealer advised Mrs H that the service 
history it had provided at the point of supply was all it had. 
Mrs H raised a complaint with Black Horse. She said the lack of servicing means she 
shouldnt be responsible for the costs of repairs. She said if shed known the service history 
was incomplete, she wouldnt have entered into the finance agreement. 
In its final response, Black Horse said there was no evidence that there was a fault at the 
point of supply. It also said there was no evince that Mrs H had been mis-sold the car based 
on its service history. It offered Mrs H £50 compensation in recognition of the time Mrs H had 
spent gathering information to bring her complaint. 
Mrs H remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought the engine failure in August 2018 was 
caused by oil contamination, which was related to a safety recall notice issued in October 
2018. The investigator felt that although the recall work was carried out in December 2018, 
these repairs were unsuccessful because the injectors had subsequently failed. The 
investigator recommended that Black Horse reimburse Mrs H for the costs of repairs and 
pay compensation. 
Black Horse didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Because Black Horse has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price 
paid. I would expect a second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mrs H  to have a degree 
of wear and tear and to require repair more often that a brand new car. So, in order to 
uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault with the 
car as opposed a fault due to general wear and tear.  
Theres no dispute that there was a fault with the car which caused the engine to fail in 
August 2018. The issue here is whether the fault was present or developing at the pint of 
supply, and whether the car was of satisfactory quality. 
Ive looked at the report provided by the garage in Germany who repaired the engine. This 
says  amongst other things  that the oil in the engine was contaminated with diesel. 
Ive also looked at the safety recall notice issued in October 2018. This advises that the 
powertrain control module needs to be reprogrammed in order to protect the engine from 
developing a fuel injector fault. It also advises that the update will prevent oil contamination.
I can see that the recall work was carried out in December 2018. However, in July 2019 Mrs 
H experienced further issues which, when diagnosed, were found to be related to the 
injectors. Further repairs were carried out.
Mrs H says that the engine failure and injector issues were connected to the safety recall 
notice. Black Horse disagrees. It says it has spoken to the supplying dealer and the 
independent dealership who said the faults dont relate to the safety recall notice.
Ive taken this intro account, as well as the comments of the garage who carried out repairs 
to the injectors in December 2019. They said the injector fault wouldve been linked to the 
safety recall and that the repair carried out in December 2018 wasnt successful.
Taking everything into account, Im persuaded that theres a clear link between the issues 
mentioned in the recall notice and the faults experienced by Mrs H. The recall notice 
specifically references oil contamination, which was the fault found by the garage in 
Germany. On the balance of probability, if the recall notice had been issued sooner and the 
remedial work carried out, the engine wouldnt have failed. Because of this, I think its 
reasonable to conclude that because of the issues identified in the recall notice, the car had 
an inherent fault which meant it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Im also persuaded that the repair work carried out in December 2018 pursuant to the recall 
notice wasnt successful. This is because the recall notice specifically mentions the injectors, 
and I can see that the injectors had to be replaced again in December 2019. If the repairs to 
the injectors in December 2018 had been successful, I dont think they would have required 
replacement so soon afterwards. This is supported by the comments of the independent 
garage who carried out the repairs in December 2019.
Putting things right I understand that the latest repairs have been successful, and that the car is performing as 
expected. So, I dont think rejection is an appropriate remedy here. Under the Consumer 
Rights Act 2016, Id expect the business to put things right if a car isnt of satisfactory quality. 
The business is allowed one attempt to repair the fault. Mrs H has had to pay for the repairs 
herself, so I think its fair in the circumstances to ask Black Horse to reimburse her.
Its clear that Mrs H has been caused inconvenience by the faults, especially when the car 
broke down whilst she was abroad. Shes explained that she had to leave the car in 
Germany whilst it was being repaired and arranged a flight home. Ive taken this into account 
and overall, I think compensation of £450 is fair and reasonable (in addition to the sum of 
£50 already offered by Black Horse, which Mrs H says hasnt been paid to her yet).
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Black Horse Limited must:
Reimburse Mrs H the cost of repairs to the engine and the injectors
Pay compensation of £450
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman