DRN-1156257
 
The complaint
Mr R has complained about Markerstudy Insurance Company Limiteds decision to reject a 
theft claim he made under his motorcycle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R bought a motorcycle insurance policy with the insurer, Markerstudy in April 2018 which 
provided cover for several motorbikes Mr R owned. In October 2018 Mr R added a new 
motorbike to the existing policy.
Unfortunately Mr Rs motorbike was stolen from a retail car park in November 2018 while he 
was shopping. He reported the incident to Markerstudy. After investigation, it decided to 
reject Mr Rs claim. 
Mr R complained to Markerstudy. Markerstudy accepted that it hadnt been clear about the 
reason why it rejected his claim. It said the reason was because Mr R had misrepresented 
the facts about where the motorbike would be stored overnight. When Mr R added the 
motorbike to his policy, he said the bike would be kept in a garage overnight. But when he 
made a claim, he said he kept the bike in his garden as there wasnt enough room in the 
garage  due to having other bikes stored there. 
Markerstudy apologised for not being clear and paid Mr R £50 compensation for its failing. 
But it said its decision was correct as Mr Rs policy has a garage clause. So if Mr Rs 
motorbike wasnt stored in a garage overnight, Markerstudy wouldnt offer a policy. It 
refunded the additional premium Mr R paid when he added the motorbike to his policy. It 
removed the motorbike from Mr Rs existing policy.
Mr R brought his complaint to us. He believes Markerstudy is using the garage clause under 
his policy to avoid paying his claim as the theft didnt happen from his home. 
Our investigator thought Markerstudy had correctly acted in line with the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 also known as CIDRA when reaching 
its decision. He agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. He explained the 
steps and remedies available to the insurer under the Act. So although the theft didnt take 
place while Mr Rs motorbike was in his garden overnight, the issue was that Markerstudy 
would not have provided cover if it knew this. Markerstudy had asked Mr R a clear question 
about where his bike would be kept overnight when he added the motorbike to his existing 
policy. If Mr R had said where the motorbike was actually kept, Markerstudy wouldnt have 
offered cover.
So the investigator didnt recommend Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. 
Mr R didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where a complaint arises from non-disclosure of information important to an insurer, we look 
to see that it asked a clear question when the policy was taken out. We check that the 
information given would affect whether a policy was offered or its terms. And we check 
whether the policyholder has taken reasonable care to provide accurate information. If not, 
we consider whether they did so deliberately, recklessly or carelessly. Markerstudy said that 
Mr R carelessly misrepresented the facts in order to buy his policy. I have taken account of 
CIDRA as it applies in this case.
When Mr R called to add the bike in question to his existing policy, Markerstudy asked him 
where it would be kept overnight. Mr R said it would be kept in his garage. But this wasnt 
true. Mr R told Markerstudy when he made his claim that there wasnt room for this bike in 
his garage. So it was kept overnight in his garden. I think Markerstudy asked a clear 
question. I dont think Mr R took reasonable care to provide accurate information in his 
answer. So Im satisfied that a qualifying misrepresentation was made. 
I appreciate that Mr R says his property has a number of features in place to make it secure, 
so reducing the risk of theft. But its for the insurer to determine and decide what its 
prepared to provide insurance for. It does this by asking a series of questions when a 
customer applies for a policy. An insurers underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive  
and so it doesnt share this information with customers. But we can ask an insurer to provide 
us with proof from its underwriter to show it treated its customer fairly when reaching its 
decision. Im satisfied from the evidence provided that Markerstudy wouldnt have offered Mr 
R cover for the bike in question under his existing policy if hed told it wouldnt be garaged 
overnight. 
Ive looked at the policy wording provided by Markerstudy to Mr R when he added this bike 
to his policy. It highlighted the existing garage clause endorsement. And under the title 
Misrepresentation it explained that if this was identified, it may reject a claim and void a 
policy. So I think Mr R had a further opportunity to contact Markerstudy if he had any 
concerns about the information hed provided when he received his amended policy 
documents.  
I agree that Markerstudys initial explanation as to why it rejected Mr Rs claim wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. And I do sympathise with Mr R for the fact that he had his 
motorbike stolen. But I think Markerstudys decision to reject Mr Rs theft claim and remove 
cover from his existing policy was reasonable and in line with CIDRA. So I think its 
compensation payment of £50 for not being clear is fair in this case. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
 
 
 
 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman