DRN-2984444
The complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of his fathers estate. His complaint is about the way M & G 
Securities Limited (M&G) handled an investment after his father died in 2017. Mr A isnt 
happy that the investment lost money, or with the information and advice the estate was 
given about its performance. 
What happened
After hearing that Mr As father had died, M&G sent Mr As mother a leaflet explaining how to 
manage his investment. She replied with an application to transfer the investment. But M&G 
sent two letters in December 2017 saying more was needed before theyd make the transfer. 
Specifically  the form hadnt been filled in correctly, and M&G wanted to see Mr As mother 
had authority to act for the estate.
There wasnt any further contact between M&G and Mr As mother after the December 2017 
letters, until 2019. M&G look to have sent two letters to Mr As mother that year. In January 
they said the objectives of some of the investments were changing. And in June they said 
their fees would be changing.
In early 2020, M&G wrote to Mr As mother again. In response, they heard from Mr A  for 
what appears to be the first time. He showed them his grant of probate  which hed got in 
August 2019  so M&G made him the point of contact for the investment.
In October  after about a six-month gap in contact  Mr A told M&G to sell the investment. 
But he wasnt happy itd lost some of its value since 2017. He felt M&G should have done 
more to manage the losses the investment was suffering, and to make the estate aware of 
the investments performance.
In response to Mr As complaint, M&G explained the objective of the investment, and how its 
value was affected by changes in share prices  particularly during the 2020 global 
coronavirus pandemic. They also explained that theyd stopped writing to Mr As father in 
2017, and had been waiting for instructions before making any changes to the investment. 
They said their role had been to provide information about the investment, but not to give the 
estate advice about what to do with it.
M&G did apologise for not sending a cheque of the investments proceeds in Mr As name. 
They said theyd issue a new one, and pay £100 compensation to Mr A. The new cheque got 
delayed though, so M&G increased this compensation to £225.
Mr A wasnt happy with M&Gs response , so he brought his complaint to us. I made a 
provisional decision in July, explaining how I intended to say M&Gs service in this case was 
reasonable. Their agreement with Mr As father hadnt included giving advice or acting 
without his  or his estates  instructions. I saw there hadnt been statements sent in 2018 
or 2019, but I felt that reasonably reflected that M&G had no confirmed point of contact for 
the estate in those years. And I explained why I wasnt going to direct a remedy for the 
issues with the cheques. 
M&G said they had nothing to add before I made a final decision. Mr A expressed a lot of 
dissatisfaction with our investigators handling of the case. But that doesnt come into the 
scope of my decision, which is about what M&G did, so I wont comment further on that. He 
repeated his feeling though that the fees paid to M&G created a duty of care, which meant 
they should have done more to advise and act in the best interests of him and his family. 
Mr A also made some comments suggesting this complaint was about his mothers money, 
and the service she received from M&G. But the details Ive seen all point to this being a 
complaint about his fathers investment. That seems to have passed to his fathers estate 
after he died, as opposed to it being held in trust for his mother. Mr As complaint is therefore 
brought to us on behalf of his fathers estate  not his mother. So I wont be commenting 
directly on what hes said about the service his mother received from M&G.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided my earlier provisional decision was the right one for this case. 
For that reason, Im largely going to repeat the points I made last time, without change.
I can see that M&Gs letters in December 2017 gave Mr As mother the information needed 
to move the investment forward  most notably that a grant of probate was needed. 
The leaflet M&G sent also mentioned a process for handling small estates, which wouldnt 
have needed a grant of probate. That could have been used here, if Mr As mother had 
asked about it, and if nobody was planning on getting a grant of probate.
The leaflet explained Mr As mother needed to call M&G about their small estates process, if 
shed wanted to use it. So I think that did enough to make her aware of that option too. And 
in any case, the fact a grant of probate was later obtained  albeit about two years later  
means the small estates process might not have been suitable for managing the investment.
M&G dont look to have had any details about Mr A in 2017. So I wouldnt expect them to 
have tried to contact him more directly. It was enough for them to contact his mother, given 
shed told them Mr As father had died. M&G could reasonably expect that to be enough to 
make the estate aware what was needed to instruct them further.
I cant see M&G were given a grant of probate until February 2020, when Mr A sent them 
his. Nor did anyone contact them about the small estates process. Without any contact like 
that, it was reasonable M&G didnt sell or otherwise change the investment before 2020.
The time it took Mr A to get the grant of probate  or tell M&G he had it  wasnt directly 
under M&Gs control. But I can understand Mr As point  he might have changed things 
sooner, if M&G had made more contact with his mother about the investments performance. 
He was  as I understand  aware of the contact between M&G and his mother at the time.
The terms and conditions for this investment said statements would be sent out every six 
months  in April and October. But M&G have confirmed none were sent to Mr As father 
after they were told hed died. They only started sending statements again when they found 
out Mr A was the executor for the estate.
I find it was reasonable for M&G to stop sending statements to Mr As father after hed died. 
And I understand why  even though M&G sent general correspondence to Mr As mother in 2019  they didnt send her any statements. A statement gave more specific details, that 
M&G understandably only wanted to send to someone authorised to deal with the estate.
As such, it was reasonable for M&G not to send any statements out until theyd confirmed 
whod be dealing with the estate. 
Ive gone on to consider the complaint that M&G should have done something more when 
the investments value was falling. 
Their general terms  specifically point eight of the general terms that applied in 2017  said 
M&G didnt provide advisory or discretionary management services. Given that part of the 
agreement, I wouldnt expect M&G to act without an instruction from the estate.
And while I appreciate Mr As feeling that the fees paid for the investment created a duty on 
M&G to do more, those fees were for providing the service set out in the investments terms. 
As Ive noted, that didnt include advice, or acting in place of the executor.
Its also worth noting that M&G provide details on their website about the fund Mr As father 
had invested in. These include details about how risky it is, its value, and its performance 
over the last five years. The information is public  no account specific details are needed 
other than knowing what fund had been invested in. I see the name of the fund was on 
statements sent to Mr As father before he died. With those, the estate could have found 
general information about the performance of the fund.
As such, I find M&G did what was required of them to inform the estate about the 
investment. And it was reasonable for M&G to wait for the estate to contact them  using the 
details theyd sent to Mr As mother  even though the investments value was dropping.
I commented last time on some more minor points, which havent been commented on by 
either Mr A of M&G. For completeness, Ill repeat my reasoning for those too.
The fund manager stepped down soon after Mr A complained. People may choose to 
change their work for any number of reasons, and I dont see enough here to support Mr As 
view that this should be read as an agreement the investment had been mis-managed.
M&G offered £225 to Mr A for any inconvenience he was caused by having the investments 
proceeds sent to him in a cheque in his fathers name. As Im looking at this as a complaint 
on behalf of an estate  rather than for Mr A personally  I wouldnt choose to direct M&G to 
pay this sort of compensation. Instead, Id usually look to compensate any cost added to the 
estate by this sort of mistake.
But I cant see the delay sending a suitable cheque has caused much more than incidental 
expenses  things like sending a few extra emails. As such, sending the amended cheque 
and apologising looks like enough to put this right for the estate. While M&G offered Mr A 
some compensation, Im not going to make that part of my decision. I consider that a matter 
between Mr A and M&G, rather than something that needs to be directed towards the estate, 
and ultimately its beneficiaries.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. M & G Securities Limited dont need to do anything 
more to put things right in this case.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman