DRN-3008901
The complaint
Mr O complains about poor service from The Prudential Assurance Company Limited in 
connection with payments from his retirement account.  
What happened
Payments from Mr Os retirement account are due on the 28th of the month. From December 
2019, several payments were late. Prudential paid compensation of £401.25 in recognition of 
the inconvenience this had caused Mr O, and to cover phone call costs and interest on the 
late payments. 
But Prudential didnt provide a satisfactory explanation for why the payments were late, and 
it didnt give any assurances that they wouldnt be delayed in the future. Mr O wasnt happy 
with Prudentials response, because he said the late payments caused considerable 
distress. He referred the matter to this service for further investigation.
Our investigators initial conclusion was that Prudential didnt need to do anything further. He 
accepted there had been delayed payments, but Prudential had said this was linked to fees 
paid for the guaranteed income on Mr Os account. 
Mr O had switched funds in November 2019, and Prudential said a system error meant the 
guarantee had been removed. This meant Mr Os account had to be monitored manually to 
disinvest what was needed to cover the fees. It was this issue that created the delayed 
payments. 
The investigator considered the compensation paid by Prudential was fair in the 
circumstances. He was also satisfied that Prudential was doing what it could to make sure 
there werent further delays, but he accepted this couldnt be guaranteed.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He provided information that he 
considered demonstrated payments were due on the 28th of the month, with no room for 
flexibility.
Following a review of the additional information, the investigator concluded that the 
guarantee was only applied to Mr Os account after the fund switch. This was on the advice 
of a Prudential adviser in 2019. So the investigator wasnt persuaded that the delayed 
payments were the result of the guarantee being removed, as Prudential had suggested.
The investigator issued a second view and said the guarantee hadnt been added to Mr Os 
account as it shouldve been in 2019. It had been correctly added to the account in 2021, 
which meant delayed payments should no longer occur.
Prudential was checking whether Mr O had been correctly charged while the guarantee 
wasnt in place. The investigator considered this was reasonable, but he said Prudential 
should confirm whether any redress was due to Mr O within 28 days of his acceptance of the 
investigators conclusions.
The investigator said Prudential should also pay additional compensation of £250 in 
recognition of the distress created by its poor service.
Prudential didnt agree with the conclusions in the investigators second view. It said its 
explanation that the late payments were caused by system issues was correct  even if it 
hadnt gone in to the detail of what those system issues were. Prudential accepted that the 
system issues meant the guarantee hadnt been applied correctly, but it said it wouldve 
always been honoured. Prudential didnt accept that its response to Mr Os complaint was 
incorrect, and it asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Prudential seems to accept that the guarantee on Mr Os account wasnt properly applied at 
the outset, and that this created the delayed payments until the matter was resolved in 2021. 
But I cant see that this was properly identified by Prudential until this service became 
involved. I accept that Prudential told Mr O that the delays were caused by system issues, 
and that technically that was correct. But given that Mr O is reliant on his pension income, I 
can understand why he was unhappy with the lack of detail in Prudentials explanation, and 
why he wanted reassurance that further delays wouldnt occur in the future.
I note that Prudential has now written to Mr O to confirm that the guarantee has been  
applied to his account so that the issue creating delays has been resolved. It has also 
apologised to Mr O.
Even so, in my view it took an unacceptable amount of time for Prudential to provide a 
meaningful explanation for the delays, and to resolve the issue so that future delays are 
avoided.
So I agree with the investigator that Prudential should pay further compensation to Mr O.
Putting things right
Prudential should pay £250 to Mr O, in addition to the compensation it has already paid.
Prudential should also identify whether Mr O paid too much in charges while the guarantee 
wasnt correctly applied to his account. 
If Mr O is due a refund of overpaid charges, Prudential should also add 8% simple interest to 
the payment from the date that each charge was made until the date of settlement. It should 
also supply Mr O with a copy of its calculation in a clear and understandable format. 
My final decision
My decision is that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should pay compensation to Mr O in line with the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman