DRN-2965084
The complaint
Mr Q has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited undervalued his car when 
it settled a claim on his motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr Qs car was damaged in an accident. Admiral said it was a total loss and paid him 
£18,380, which it said was his cars market value at the time of the accident. Mr Q didn't 
think that was enough. He said hed paid £22,500 for the car only five months earlier and 
didn't think Admirals offer recognised the cars excellent condition.
Mr Q brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 22 July 2021. For ease 
I've copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Q thinks Admiral undervalued his car and said he couldn't find a replacement for a similar 
sum. Our usual approach to complaints about valuations is to look at the relevant trade 
guides for valuing second-hand cars. We find these more reliable than figures cars are 
advertised for. That's because the trade guides use extensive research of likely selling 
prices for cars, whereas the price a car is advertised for isn't necessarily the price it sells for, 
if in fact it sells at all.
Mr Qs said that as his car was rare he didn't think the trade guides could produce reliable 
valuations. But, the trade guide valuations are based on the specific car being valued. That 
is they provide a value for the exact make, model, year, and mileage. And they arrive at 
those valuations by examining data from the market. So I think it's fair to use the trade 
guides to value Mr Qs car, as if they didn't have enough data (because the car was rare) 
they wouldn't provide a valuation. And as the sale price of second hand cars can vary, the 
guides rarely agree on an exact valuation. So we think a fair way to find a cars market value 
is to use an average of the various figures given by the trade guides.
In this case Admiral used two of the guides as well as asking an independent engineer to 
value Mr Qs car. It said it was unable to get a valuation from another guide, which I'll refer to 
as P. And it valued Mr Qs car at the highest of the three valuations it did receive.
However, Mr Q had been able to find a valuation for his car from P, which was £24,570. And 
had this been the only other valuation available I would have said it was fair to disregard it. 
Thats because its out of line with the two other trade guides valuations. But theres also a 
fourth trade guide that we think its fair for insurers like Admiral to use. And its valuation is 
similar to Ps. So I think its fair to use all four trade guide valuations as those are likely to 
represent a fair range of prices Mr Qs car could have attracted. It follows that an average of 
all four valuations is likely to produce a fair market value.
Im unable to get a fresh valuation from P (as those are time limited) but Ive run the 
valuations from the other three guides myself (to find valuations at the date of the accident). 
Thats produced the figures below. I note that some of these figures are different from those 
our investigator and Admiral obtained, but this may be because the trade guides have 
updated the data their valuation tools use in the meantime. So the recent valuations I've 
found are more likely to be accurate, as they are based on more data. The figures are as 
follows:
£18,013
£18,380
£23,857
£24,570 (from P)
The four guides produce an average value for Mr Qs car of £21,205. So I think thats a fair 
market value at the time of the accident.
It follows that I think Admiral should pay Mr Q the difference between its valuation (£18,380) 
and the valuation I've quoted above, which comes to £2,825. It should add simple interest to 
that sum as set out below. Further, as Admirals undervaluation of the car has clearly been a 
source of distress and inconvenience for Mr Q, I think it should pay him £100 compensation.
For completeness I'm aware Mr Q thinks that, as he only bought his car around five months 
before the accident, then a fair market value would be the amount he paid for it, £22,500. 
But the cars MOT history shows it had travelled around 3,000 miles in the five months hed 
owned it (the car was tested only days before Mr Q insured it). So I ran valuations from the 
three trade guides (excluding P) using the date and mileage at the time of the MOT. That 
produced an average valuation of £22,210, which is similar to the sum Mr Q actually paid for 
his car. And, as the trade guides have shown a reduction in valuation between that date and 
the date of the accident, its apparent that the time passed and the miles covered have 
affected the market value of Mr Qs car. It follows that I'm satisfied the valuation of £21,205 
is fair.
Neither Mr Q nor Admiral provided any substantive comments on my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr Q nor Admiral objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to change 
it.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Pay Mr Q a further £2,825 to fairly settle the claim for the loss of his car. It should 
add simple interest to that sum, at a rate of 8% a year, from the date of Mr Qs claim 
to the date it pays him1.
Pay Mr Q £100 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
1 If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr Q how much its taken off. It should also give him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman