DRN-1865959
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H says St Andrews Insurance Plc, mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H bought the policy in 2003 around the same time as they took out a loan.
The policy was paid for with monthly premiums of £8.83. It covered Mrs H against not being 
able to work due to an accident or sickness. In the event of a successful claim it could have 
paid a monthly benefit of £137.92 for up to 12 months (up to 6 months for a back injury). Itd 
also pay the outstanding balance if Mrs H died.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs H have said they recall the PPI was presented as part of the loan and it wasnt 
an option to not have it.
Ive thought about this. Mr and Mrs H say they can recall the loan and PPI being arranged by 
post. From experience I am aware that St Andrews generally sold the PPI separately to the 
loan. From what I know the PPI application would be posted to the consumer after the loan 
had been agreed and the PPI would be paid for with a separate direct debit.
Ive seen screenshots from the lenders internal systems and Ive seen the credit agreement 
signed by Mr and Mrs H.
The credit agreement copy is of poor quality and it is difficult to make out the details, but I 
can see it was signed 17 April 2003. I can see it was received by the lender and the loan 
was approved and set up on 22 April 2003.
But the PPI policy was not put in place until 19 May 2003, nearly a month later. And the PPI 
policy was paid for with a separate direct debit.
So, from everything Ive seen the sale of the PPI was carried out in the way we know St 
Andrews usually sold these policies.So it looks like the PPI was sold separately to the loan and Mr and Mrs H would have been 
aware the loan had been approved before they agreed to the PPI.
Taking all this into account I think its most likely Mr and Mrs H completed the form to take 
out PPI knowing they could have the loan without it. The sale took place 17 years ago and 
would have seemed a relatively mundane transaction at the time. So I can understand why 
they may not remember after so many years.
St Andrews has said it would have recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs H. So it needed 
to ensure it was right for them. From what Ive seen I think it was, I say this for the following 
reasons:
Mrs H was the person covered by the policy. She was working and was eligible for the 
policy. And she wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions in the policy that couldve 
made it difficult for her to make a successful claim. For instance shes told us he didnt have 
any medical conditions that wouldnt be covered.
Some PPI policies made it difficult for a self-employed person to claim the unemployment 
benefit. But this particular policy didnt provide unemployment cover, only accident, sickness 
and life cover. So the fact that Mrs H was self-employed didnt make the policy unsuitable.
In the questionnaire Mr and Mrs H completed for this service Mrs H said that she had no sick 
pay as he was self-employed and had no other means to make the repayments if she was 
unable to work. So I think Mr and Mrs H had a need for the policy and would have found it 
useful if Mrs H became too unwell to work.
So I think the policy was right for Mr and Mrs H.
Its possible that St Andrews didnt give all the information it should have done. But thats 
not enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Mr and Mrs H 
would have changed their mind about buying the policy if they been given better or clearer 
information. I cant say they would have done.
I say this because the policy seems to have been right for them, so any better information 
about the policy would only have confirmed that it was suitable. And from what Ive seen 
they chose to take the policy out.
The policy cost £8.83 per month. I accept Mr and Mrs H have told us the loan was for 
consolidation purposes to reduce their monthly outgoings and that they would not have 
wanted additional costs. But the policy gave a relatively good level of benefit for the 
premium. And Mrs H had no other way to pay the monthly loan repayments if she couldnt 
work. So even if they were told about the cost of the policy I still think theyd have gone 
ahead and bought it, bearing in mind the extra security it would have given them.
Overall I think St Andrews recommended a policy that was suitable for Mr and Mrs H. It 
couldve given Mr and Mrs H better information about the policy. But I think Mr and Mrs H 
was interested in this type of cover, and took it out knowing they could have chosen not to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, and I make no award 
against St Andrews Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2020.Steve Thomas
Ombudsman