DRN-4011145
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P are unhappy with the service provided Fairmead Insurance Limited 
(Fairmead) following a claim under the contents section of their home insurance policy.
Mr P and Mrs P are both parties to this complaint. Mr Ps and Mrs Ps broker has also been 
involved with contacting Fairmead during the claim. Mr P has primarily dealt with this 
service. For ease of reference I have referred to Mr P throughout this final decision. 
Fairmead are the underwriters of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions of 
the agent, company P. As Fairmead have accepted they are accountable for the actions of 
company P, in my decision, any reference to Fairmead includes the actions of company P. 
What happened
Mr P held a home insurance policy with Fairmead. The policy included an excess of £500 for 
contents cover. 
Mrs P owned a diamond engagement ring. The policy schedule did not include a specified 
value for Mrs Ps ring.
The valuables section of the policy booklet explained:
Jewellery and guns  payment basis for total losses
 
We will, at our option, pay for or replace any specified item, pair, or set up to the sum 
insured shown on your schedule following loss or damage covered by this policy.
 
For any item, pair or set not specified on your schedule, we will, at our option, pay for 
or replace up to its - market value for antique and investment items - current cost as 
new for all other items at the time of the loss but no more than £10,000 per item, pair 
or set.
In October 2022 Mr P made a claim on the policy because Mrs Ps ring was damaged. 
Fairmead arranged for Mrs Ps ring to be independently inspected by jeweller J. 
The jewellery shop where Mr P had purchased Mrs Ps ring from (jeweller D) advised that 
the replacement diamond for Mrs Ps ring would be valued at £14,300. 
Jeweller J said they could offer a replacement ring. They provided Fairmead with a design 
specification. Company P told Mr P about the ring that could be offered as a like for like 
replacement:
The damaged diamond is described by them as - 1 x 1.14ct Round Brilliant Cut 
Diamond, Colour: G, Clarity: SI2, Symmetry Grades: Excellent, they can supply the 
following  a 1.1 Sets G SI2 Diamond with the Triple Ex grades on a GIA Diamond 
Certificate. As you can see the diamond is exactly the same quality as the one 
offered by [jeweller D] and the ring would look the same as it did before it was 
unfortunately damaged.
Mr P was told that a cash settlement could be offered (up to the policy limit of £10,000) or 
the ring could be replaced with a like for like as described by jeweller J.  
Mr P opted to receive a cash settlement. He also requested for the ring and stone to be 
returned. Fairmead agreed to do this.
Mr P was provided with the agreed cash settlement of £10,000 and the ring, but not the 
stone. Mr P complained to Fairmead as it had been agreed that hed receive both the ring 
and stone in settlement on his claim.
Fairmead apologised to Mr P, accepting that theyd made an error in telling Mr P that he 
would receive both the ring and stone back in addition to the cash value for his claim. 
Fairmead explained that as Mr P had been compensated in cash for the stone already, he 
wouldnt be entitled to receive the stone back. 
Mr P was unhappy with Fairmeads decision saying that they should honour what was 
agreed, and so brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation. 
The investigator found that Fairmead had acted reasonably in paying Mr P what he was 
owed in accordance with his policy, but found that the service provided was poor because of 
the incorrect information provided. The investigator found that Fairmead should pay £100 to 
Mr P because of the confusion caused by their error.
   
Fairmead agreed with the investigators findings. 
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators findings saying (amongst other things):
- I understand you state there was a £10,000 limit BUT they never advised to 
increase it. Surely that is a valid point as that is the whole argument really.
- The insurer knew very well that the ring was not being replaced like for like and their 
alternative for a replacement diamond was not the same it was different.
 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators recommended compensation 
for this complaint for broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a 
disappointment to Mr P but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached 
this decision. 
Its not disputed that Fairmead made an error when dealing with Mr Ps claim. When we find 
that a business has made an error, we consider what shouldve happened, and the impact 
on a customer because of what went wrong.Mr Ps policy doesnt list the engagement ring as a specified item. The maximum amount Mr 
Ps policy would pay in the event of a claim for jewellery is explained in the policy booklet:
For any item, pair or set not specified on your schedule, we will, at our option, pay for 
or replace up to its - market value for antique and investment items - current cost as 
new for all other items at the time of the loss but no more than £10,000 per item, pair 
or set.
I understand Mr P enquired about the cost of replacing Mrs Ps ring with jeweller D, where 
hed originally purchased it from. He was told it would cost £14,300 to replace Mrs Ps ring. 
While Mr P feels strongly that he has suffered a loss because of the value for the ring 
provided to him by jeweller D, Im satisfied that the value offered for £10,000 was in line with 
the terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy. We wouldnt expect Fairmead to offer any more 
than the cover agreed to by Mr P at the time of taking out his policy. So Im satisfied the 
correct amount has been paid to Mr P.
Mr P says he was never advised to increase the value of the insurance cover for his 
jewellery. Ive considered Mr Ps comments alongside what was explained to him at the time 
of taking out insurance. 
While Mrs Ps engagement ring was not listed as a specified item, Mr P does have several 
other items that have been included in his policy with a specified value. Mr Ps policy 
schedule explains that for these items In order to ensure payment of any claim, your sums 
insured must be maintained at full value at all times as follows [including] The current 
market value for fine art and antiques and antique and investment jewellery. 
Although this wording isnt relevant for Mr Ps claim (as the engagement ring wasnt a 
specified item) I think Mr P was made reasonably aware of the requirement to check that the 
amount of cover was sufficient in the event of a claim. 
Mr P says he was not offered a like for like replacement for the engagement ring. Ive 
considered Mr Ps comments alongside the ring specification provided by jeweller J. In doing 
so, while I can appreciate Mr Ps frustration at not being offered exactly the same ring Mrs P 
had before it was damaged, I think the replacement offered was reasonable.
Ive considered the bespoke design and cut of jewellery like Mrs Ps engagement ring. I dont 
think it would be reasonable to find an exact replica of this ring. We would expect an insurer 
to offer a like for like to the nearest equivalent of its kind. I think the ring offered by jeweller J 
(although not to Mr Ps satisfaction) was a reasonable match. And Mr P still had the option to 
take the cash settlement instead- which is what he chose to do. 
Its not disputed that Mr P was provided with incorrect information about receiving both the 
ring and stone in settlement of his claim. This information led Mr P to believe that he would 
benefit from both the cash settlement and the stone from Mrs Ps ring. 
When thinking about the impact on Mr P, I think the £100 recommended by the investigator 
is fair and in line with what wed recommend in the circumstances. This amount is in 
recognition of the upset caused to Mr P in having to seek clarity from Fairmead about what 
had been agreed, and chasing Fairmead for return of the stone- which should not have been 
agreed to being returned in the first place.
 Mr P says the compensation awarded doesnt reflect what was agreed by Fairmead when 
they told him the stone would be returned. Mr P says Fairmead should honour what they 
said would happen.
I understand Mr P is ultimately unhappy with the outcome of his claim in respect of the stone 
not being returned as he understood it would be. However, the terms of the policy dont 
entitle Mr P to receive both the cash settlement and the stone. 
Mr P has been paid settlement for his claim correctly, and in line with his policy terms. The 
£100 award fairly recognises the impact on Mr P because of the incorrect information he was 
given, but also that the outcome of the claim remains unchanged. 
 
Putting things right
Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay £100 to Mr P. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint.
 
Fairmead Insurance Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman