DRN-4179964
The complaint
Ms S complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CG). Her 
complaint covers: deductions from claims; delays in paying claims; communication and 
remittance issues; and premium increases.
References to CG include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Ms S took out a pet insurance policy for her dog in June 2020 (switching from another 
insurer), at an annual premium of £155.28. In February 2021, her dog developed anal gland 
problems, requiring treatment. 
The dogs condition required ongoing treatment in the following months. A total of 20 claims 
were made between February 2021 and the beginning of April 2022. Various deductions 
were made from some of the claims (but not all) including the policy excess (£90) and other 
deductions, including where the vet had administered an injection (in total, ten deductions of 
£26.77 were made from claims between September 2021 and May 2022). 
However, Ms S was unhappy at the time taken to accept and pay some of the claims 
(ranging from a few days to several weeks), as well as the deductions made (particularly 
those for injections, where her vet told her they would otherwise have charged a higher 
consultation fee). Ms S was also unhappy at not receiving a reply to some of her 
communication with CG and that remittance advices didnt provide her with the detail to 
match to claims submitted. She also thought some claims hadnt been paid and in one case 
the payment had been made to a different account to that contained in the claim form. 
Unhappy at what had happened, Ms S complained to CG in April 2022. However, they didnt 
respond within the eight-week period that businesses have to respond to a complaint. They 
advised her of this and said she could complain to this service, which she did. 
Her complaint contained several issues, including what she considered CGs unreasonable 
deduction of injection fees from claims; delays in paying claims and others not made. She 
was also unhappy at how CG had communicated with her, including not replying to 
correspondence or acknowledging claims when submitted by the vet, lack of detail on 
remittance advices and remittances to a different account to the claim form. 
She was also unhappy at a significant increase in her premium from when she took out her 
policy. At renewal in June 2021, the annual premium increased to £197.28. In January 2022 
CG contacted Ms S to say there was a discrepancy with her policy, as theyd recorded her 
dog as a different breed. So, they asked her to pay an additional £73.98 (taking the annual 
premium to £271.26). At renewal in June 2022 the premium increased to £378.24 (a 
cumulative increase of 143% over the initial premium of £158.28).
Ms S also said the issues in her complaint had affected her financially (the deductions from 
claims and having to move money between accounts and seek assistance from family 
members because of payment delays). The increase in premiums and concern about 
potential further, future increases was also causing her worry and anxiety. 
She wanted CG to reimburse her for the injection fees deducted and pay for her dogs 
ongoing treatment. She also wanted CG to pay claims more quickly (and to the account 
specified) and acknowledge claims when submitted and when remittances were made. She 
also wanted the annual premium increase to be fairer.
After making her complaint, CG considered the issues raised  specifically the deduction of 
injection fees. They accepted what Ms Ss vet said about injection fees being less than the 
consultation fee they would otherwise have charged (they charged for injections but not a 
consultation fee  not for both). So, they reviewed the claims previously submitted and 
reimbursed the ten deductions theyd made. But Ms S wasnt happy CG hadnt responded to 
the other issues shed raised, so asked this service to consider them.
Our investigator considered the complaint, which he upheld, concluding CG hadnt acted 
fairly. He noted some of the issues in Ms Ss complaint to this service had subsequently 
been resolved, including the deduction of injection fees and payment of claims Ms S said 
hadnt been paid. He thought CG acted fairly in refunding the deductions and paying the 
outstanding claims. 
On the issue of it being difficult for Ms S to identify which claims had been paid, given the 
lack of detail and a reference on the remittances, he concluded it wasnt part of this services 
remit to tell a business what its operational processes and procedures should be. But he did 
consider the impact of the processes, concluding it was difficult for Ms S to keep track of 
what claims had been settled (given the number of claims made). He thought CG could have 
provided Ms S with a clear list of all payments, including claim reference and date paid, 
much sooner.
It was also clear to the investigator that a lot of the claims were paid outside the five working 
days that CG publicly state they meet in 97% of claims submitted. While not a target, some 
payments took significantly longer than five days. So, he concluded Ms S didnt receive the 
standard of service expected. The investigator also thought, in the absence of evidence to 
the contrary, that Ms S hadnt always received responses when she contacted CG.
On the additional premium for the discrepancy of the breed of dog, the investigator 
concluded CG hadnt acted unreasonably in amending the policy. On the increase in 
premiums, the investigator accepted Ms S recognised the premium would increase and 
increase over and above the normal increase due to the number of claims she made. From 
information provided by CG, the investigator concluded the number of claims significantly 
affected the premium and they hadnt treated Ms S any differently from other policyholders. 
But from the policy terms and conditions provided to her when she took out the policy in 
June 2020, there wasnt anything to highlight the possibility of such a significant premium 
increase, which the investigator thought unreasonable.
To put things right, the investigator thought CG should pay Ms S £250 for failures in 
customer service. In addition, they should pay £300 for trouble and upset from not alerting 
her to the degree her premiums could potentially increase when she took out the policy.
Ms S responded to question the actual dates of payment of some of the claims (as she 
thought they didnt match the payment dates CG had provided). She also questioned 
whether CG had acted fairly in charging an additional premium because of a discrepancy in 
the breed of dog shed provided when taking out the policy. However, having considered the 
additional points, the investigator didnt change his view.CG disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint.  They accepted some claims were paid outside five working days  but this wasnt 
a stated deadline for claims being paid. So they thought £250 compensation for poor service 
was disproportionate. They also disagreed with the investigators view on the increase in 
premiums, given Ms S accepted the number (and value) of claims could increase her 
premiums. CG said this was made clear in the terms and conditions of the policy provided at 
each renewal, providing an extract from the terms and conditions. The renewal premiums 
were in line with their underwriting criteria and Ms S had been treated the same as other 
policyholders in similar circumstances. CG also referred to previous decisions issued by this 
service, which concluded the annual cost of lifetime pet insurance policies can increase 
significantly at renewal (and they provided an extract from a decision). So, they disagreed 
with the proposed £300 compensation.
In my findings, I concluded £300 was a proportionate award for compensation for CG not 
making it as clear as they could have done about the likely increase in premiums after the 
policy was taken out, in the specific circumstances of this case. Having regard to awards 
made in other cases where premiums have increased significantly (and not made clearer at 
the time the policy was taken out) I thought £150 would be fair and reasonable.
Because I reached a different conclusion on the amount of compensation, I issued a 
provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is 
set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Id first want to reassure Ms S that Ive considered carefully what shes told us about the 
nature of her disability and vulnerability, including the financial impact and stress on her from 
what happened. Ive borne this in mind when - as is my role here  deciding whether CG has 
acted fairly towards Ms S. 
In considering the complaint, Ive concentrated on what I think are the two key issues, given 
that the claims made by Ms S have now been paid (though she disputes whether one has) 
and CG have refunded the principal deduction (for injection fees) they originally deducted 
from several claims. 
The first issue concerns delay in payment of claims, together with a lack of response from 
CG when Ms S raised queries with them. Ms S says claims Sere paid significantly after what 
CG say is their paying 97% of claims within five working days. Ms S also says CG failed to 
respond to emails she sent CG asking about the position of claims shed made. CG say 
theyve paid Ms Ss claims (and refunded the injection fees deductions). They say the figure 
of 97% of claims paid within five working days isnt a stated deadline for claims being paid.
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the supporting evidence and information 
provided by Ms S and by CG. Having done so, Ive concluded CG havent acted fairly and 
reasonably towards Ms S. Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
The first aspect Ive looked at is the time taken to pay the claims submitted by Ms S. Ive 
looked at the schedule of claims and payments provided by CG to our investigator. In total, 
there are 27 claims (5 received by CG after Ms Ss complaint with this service). The total 
paid against the 27 claims is some £4,550 (the 5 received after Ms Ss complaint to this 
service total some £1,135). The former figure includes £267.70 in refunded inspection fees 
initially deducted, as CGs response to Ms Ss complaint to them. The schedule from CG 
indicates the dates the claim was received and when paid (in what appear to be calendar 
days, rather than working days). Even allowing for calendar days being greater than working days, its clear that some of the claims Sere paid outside of five working days  and in some 
cases significantly outside. 
While I accept the figure of 97% of claims paid within five working days isnt a target (its a 
statistic) I think it would have led Ms S to believe the great majority of claims would be paid 
within five working days. I also accept the need to validate claims will sometimes mean 
claims will take longer to be paid. However, from what Ive seen its not clear why some of 
the claims took significantly longer to be paid, and CG havent provided an explanation. 
Given what Ms S has said about her disability and vulnerability, and financial circumstances, 
I can understand why this would have impacted her financially and been stressful. 
Ive also considered that while CG eventually (as part of their response to Ms Ss complaint 
to them) refunded the inspection fees, this was considerably after they had been deducted. 
And after Ms Ss vet provided clarification they charged inspection fees instead of a [higher] 
consultation fee  not both. This would also have impacted Ms S financially.
The other element of this part of the complaint is that CG didnt respond to emails sent by 
Ms S (in December 2021) asking about progress with claims shed made. Ms S says she 
didnt receive a reply to either email. And CG havent provided any evidence to show they 
did reply.
Taking all these points into account, I dont think CG have treated Ms S fairly and 
reasonably. Particularly given what shes said about her circumstances and the impact of 
whats happened on her. Given the circumstances of the case, I think Ms S would have been 
impacted by the delays and CG not responding to her in a timely way. Having considered all 
the circumstances of the case, I think £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
would be fair and reasonable.
The second issue is the increase in premiums. Ms S is unhappy at a significant increase in 
her annual premium from that when she took out her policy (£155.28). At renewal in June 
2021, the premium increased to £197.28. In January 2022 due to a discrepancy over the 
breed of dog recorded, CG increased the premium by £73.98 (taking the premium to 
£271.26). At renewal in June 2022 the premium increased to £378.24. 
CG say Ms S accepts the claims shes made would increase the premium, and this was 
made clear in the policy terms and conditions. The renewal premiums were in line with their 
underwriting criteria and Ms S was treated the same as other policyholders in similar 
circumstances. CG also refer to previous decisions issued by this service, which concluded 
the annual cost of lifetime pet insurance policies can increase significantly at renewal.
Taking CGs points in turn, in their response to our investigators view CG say the policy 
terms and conditions make it clear the premium can increase. Specifically they refer to 
Section 16  Renewal of Your Policy which states:
This section explains Your rights and Our rights at renewal.
We can review the Premium at renewal and this may increase, decrease or 
stay the same.
The terms and conditions of the Policy may be changed, and We will always 
give You at least 21 days notice of any change in writing
The circumstances that may give rise to a change in premium of to the terms 
and conditions of the Policy are:
Your overall claims experience; or
Changes in legislation, taxation or interest rates; or to improve the 
clarity of Your terms and conditions.Insurers have a duty to provide information thats clear, fair and not misleading. I think this 
wording makes it clear premiums are subject to change (including an increase) over the life 
of the policy. And one of the circumstances that may lead to a change is the overall claims 
experience. Its not unreasonable (as Ms S accepts) that making claims will affect future 
premiums  particularly if the number and value of claims is high (as in this case). 
However, while there is reference to claims experience, there isnt any reference to the 
likelihood that (for a lifetime cover policy) premiums are likely to increase (and increase 
significantly) for other reasons. CG could have been clearer that:
The premium will almost certainly increase year on year and as the pet gets 
older (and is therefore more likely to experience illness and conditions leading to 
an increased likelihood of claims). These increases can be significant.
The increases are not capped so theres no limit on how much the policy might 
increase by.
Ive then considered the second point made by CG in their response, that the renewal 
premiums Sere in line with their underwriting criteria and Ms S was treated the same as 
other policyholders in similar circumstances.
CG have supplied the detailed rating factors applied to the calculation of Ms Ss premiums, 
including the initial premium when the policy was taken out and subsequent renewals. It also 
includes the adjustment to the premium for the breed of dog between the 2021 and 2022 
renewals. While this is commercially sensitive, it indicates the main factors underpinning the 
increase in premiums were:
the age of the dog increasing each year (affecting the age group);
adjustment to the breed of dog (affecting the breed group); and
claims loading due to claims received.
There is also a change to the area group (postcode) in the second year of the policy. 
Given the point raised about the adjustment to the premium for the breed of dog, having 
considered what Ms S has told us alongside the response provided by CG, Ive considered 
whether CG acted fairly in adjusting the premium. Having done so, Ive concluded CG acted 
fairly to reflect the specific breed of dog.
Given the number and value of the claims made (as set out above), together with the age of 
the dog increasing also leading to an increase in premium, I dont think such a significant 
increase between the policy start and the 2022 renewal should have been unexpected. 
Theres also no indication Ms S was treated any differently than would any other policyholder 
in similar circumstances.
Alongside this, its also a commercial decision by CG about how they set premiums and the 
factors they take account of (and the weighting/loading of those factors).  Its not for me to 
tell insurers how to price their policies but I do need to make sure theyre treating all their 
customers consistently and fairly.
Taking these points into account, Ive concluded CG have calculated the renewal premium in 
accordance with their approach to setting renewal premiums. So, Ive concluded they 
havent acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms S as she has been treated consistently 
with CGs general approach. I recognise Ms S is concerned at a 143% increase in the 
premium between 2020 and 2022 (and that the 2022 premium is 243% higher than the 
premium when the policy was taken out), but as Ive set out above, I dont think CG have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably.While Ive reached this conclusion, as mentioned above, the information at the point of sale 
(and subsequently) didnt highlight the extent to which premiums might increase. So, I dont 
think CG have made it as clear as they could have done when the policy was taken out that 
premiums could subsequently increase (and potentially increase significantly). 
Its likely Ms S would still have taken out the policy even if the information had been clearer, 
as she was looking for lifetime cover (and was switching from another insurer). And if she 
had looked for a policy elsewhere, it would also have been subject to increased premiums as 
the pet got older (and claims were made). 
Ive also considered CGs third point, about other decisions issued by this service (extracts 
of which they provided in their response to our investigators view). Ive considered the 
extract, but as a service we consider the specific circumstances of each case on its merits. 
And in this case, as Ive set out above, I dont think CG have made it as clear as they could 
have done about the likely increase in premiums after the policy was taken out.
Given these conclusions Ive thought about what CG should do to put things right. I think CG 
could have been clearer about the likelihood the premiums could increase (and significantly 
so) when Ms S took out her policy. So, while I also think the number and value of claims 
made by Ms S would have indicated the premium would be likely to increase (and she 
accepts this) I think the extent of the increase would have been a surprise to her and caused 
her some distress. Balancing these points, I dont think £300 is a proportionate award for 
compensation, in the specific circumstances of this case. Having regard to awards made in 
other cases where premiums have increased significantly (and not made clearer at the time 
the policy was taken out) I think £150 would be fair and reasonable.
While Ive reached this conclusion, Ive also considered the other issues raised by Ms S in 
her complaint to this service. On the points about acknowledging claims Shen submitted and 
when remittances were made, while I can understand why Ms S feels it has made it harder 
for her to see what claims have been paid (and when), its an operational matter for CG. As 
such, it isnt for me to say how CG should arrange its processes and systems. On the point 
about annual premium increase to be fairer, Ive considered this issue in relation to the 
premiums at renewal in 2021 and 2022. I cannot anticipate what the level of premium will be 
at the next renewal, so it isnt within the scope of this decision.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Ms Ss complaint. I 
intend to require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Pay Ms S £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience from delays in paying 
claims and not responding to her communications.
Pay Ms S £150 compensation for not making it as clear as they could have done 
about the likely increase in premiums after the policy was taken out.
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it Ms S accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this 
they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
CG responded to accept the provisional decision.
Ms S didnt respond by the date for responses.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether CG have acted fairly towards Ms S.
As CG have accepted the provisional decision and Ms S hasnt responded, then my final 
decision is unchanged from my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Ms Ss complaint. I require 
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Pay Ms S £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience from delays in paying 
claims and not responding to her communications.
Pay Ms S £150 compensation for not making it as clear as they could have done 
about the likely increase in premiums after the policy was taken out.
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 
days of the date on which we tell it Ms S accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this 
they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman