DRN-2288406
The complaint
Ms P complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited mishandled her claim on her 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms P has told us that she has some health and mobility issues. 
From July 2019, Ms P had her car insured on a policy under which Advantage was 
responsible for dealing with claims. Where I refer to Advantage, I include claims-handlers 
and others insofar as I hold Advantage responsible for their actions.
On 4 December 2019, a lorry from mainland Europe hit Ms Ps car. Advantage was 
responsible for recovering Ms Ps vehicle to a garage and assessing whether it was 
repairable. In the meantime, it said it would arrange a courtesy car.
Ms P complained that she didnt receive a car until 13 December 2019 and received poor 
service. Advantage made an offer of £75.00 compensation. Advantage wrote a final 
response dated 8 January 2020. It upheld Ms Ps complaint and made a further 
compensation payment of £200.00.
Advantage decided Ms Ps car was beyond economic repair. It increased its pre-accident 
valuation from £6,110.00 to £6,330.00. On about 10 January 2020, Ms P accepted that and 
asked for a fast payment. 
On about 14 January 2020, Ms P got a new car and put it on the policy. She received the 
payment of her claim on 15 or 16 January 2020 and complained about delay.
On 11 February 2020, Advantage sent a communication saying that it had cancelled the 
policy on 10 February. When Ms P complained that shed been driving around all day 
without insurance, Advantage said the cancelation was an error and reinstated the policy 
immediately. 
By a final response dated 11 February 2020, Advantage made another compensation 
payment of £100.00. Ms P brought her complaint to us on 12 February 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that a 
fair outcome had been reached.
Ms P disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
The money paid does not compensate for the hours spent on the phone sorting out 
the mistakes, contacting Advantage, its recovery company, its car hire company etc.
She went through mental anxiety, wanting to scream at the lack of help.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P had been in a nasty accident. Advantage didnt deal well with the recovery of her car, 
the provision of a hire car, the assessment of her car or with gathering and communicating 
information. Advantage was responsible for confusing and conflicting communication with 
Ms P. 
The effects of these shortcomings included that Ms P had no transport for over a week and 
she had to deal with unnecessary telephone calls. She had to spend more time dealing with 
the claim than she should have spent.
From what shes said, I accept that the shortcomings in Advantages service caused Ms P 
extra distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time for her. 
However, Advantage paid Ms Ps claim by 15 or 16 January 2020. The timing of that caused 
her inconvenience as it wasnt in time for the purchase of her new car. However, I dont hold 
Advantage responsible for unreasonable delay in that respect. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Advantage to pay compensation for that.
Advantage shouldnt have cancelled the policy on 10 February 2020. And I accept that Ms P 
was troubled by the thought of driving without insurance. But Advantage reinstated the policy 
promptly and I consider that this had retrospective effect. Advantage also offered a further 
£100.00 compensation. 
Ive thought about how much I wouldve found fair and reasonable for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the shortcomings in Advantages service if it hadnt made any 
offers. Overall, Im satisfied that its offers totalling £375.00 were more than I wouldve 
directed Advantage to pay. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Advantage to pay 
any more compensation or to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman