DRN-3633057
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited is holding him responsible for an overdraft on 
an account he says he didnt open.
What happened
On 6 November 2018, a Starling current account was opened in Mr Rs name and shortly 
after an overdraft of £1,000 was applied to the account. A new payee was set up and a 
faster payment of £1,000 was made from the account all within around 20 minutes of the 
account opening. On 11 January 2021, Mr R contacted Starling saying he had just 
discovered via a credit report that an account he knew nothing about had been opened in 
his name. Mr R later told Starling that hed lost his wallet; including driving licence and bank 
cards some month prior to the application.
Starling believes Mr Rs identification was correctly used to open the account and said that 
around the time the account was opened, it was aware that individuals were advised by 
social media to open a Starling account in order to receive returns. Its therefore holding 
Mr R liable for the outstanding balance on the account.
Initially an investigator upheld the complaint but following a further review, Mr Rs complaint 
was not upheld. Mr R did not agree with the more recent conclusions, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is 
more likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I have carefully noted the representations made by all the parties, but I wont be addressing 
every single point thats been raised or the questions asked by Mr R in response to the 
recent view. No disrespect is intended, and it doesnt follow that the points havent been 
considered, simply that I dont need to particularise every point in reaching an outcome I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Ive instead concentrated on the 
issues I think are central to the outcome of this complaint.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. So, when I look at whether a bank has acted fairly 
in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the 
customer made the transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then 
we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
I have reviewed the application that Starling say Mr R made in November 2018 for a current 
account. The application was made using Mr Rs genuine details including his name, date of 
birth, address and his genuine driving licence. The application also required a video of the 
consumer confirming his name and requesting the account to be verified.
It seems to me there are three possible scenarios here: Mr R made the application himself, 
and unknown third party made the application without Mr Rs knowledge, a known third party 
made the application with Mr Rs knowledge or involvement.
In thinking about an unknown third party being responsible, Mr R told us he did lose his 
driving licence along with his whole wallet on a night out and this was around six months 
before. He didnt report it lost or stolen but cancelled his cards straightaway and applied for 
a replacement licence. He confirmed there were no other incidences (attempts or otherwise) 
of fraud.
I have reviewed the spending when the account was opened. There is only one transaction  
a faster payment out for £1,000 - using the accounts overdraft. It takes place almost 
immediately after the account was opened. This does look unusual and deliberate to me.
 
However, I do find it odd that a lost licence was used quite some time later to open an 
account. And I think its more likely that an opportunistic fraudster would make attempts to 
use the lost bank cards (albeit those cards may have been blocked almost straightaway  an 
unknown third party would not know that - so would likely attempt to use the cards). Mr R 
said that didnt happen. 
I dont think an unknown third party is the more likely scenario here.
I dont have access to expert voice or facial recognition analysis and I appreciate there have 
been differing opinions on this  but in my view the picture on the driving licence appears to 
match the face in the video and the voice is not dissimilar to the calls Mr R has had with both 
Starling and us. Whilst I cant be certain, I would say the person in the video is more likely 
than not - a match for the person on the driving licence and a match for the voice on the calls 
we and the bank have received.
What also seems particularly unusual in this case, is Mr Rs correct address was listed and 
so he could have become aware of the account in his name easily when the card was sent 
there - though he says he did not receive the card. But he has confirmed the address the 
card was sent to, was his address. On balance I do think it is more likely than not that the 
card was sent to the address Mr R lived at, so it seems likely that he would have received it. 
If this happened and he had not ever opened an account with Starling as he suggests, I think 
he would have likely noticed and contacted Starling when he received the card.
I accept it is possible that Mr R didnt physically open the account or make the transfer, but 
for the reasons explained above, I cant safely say Mr R wasnt involved here. I therefore 
think its fair and reasonable for Mr R to be held liable for the transaction on his account 
because I think, on balance, he authorised it  or allowed someone else to do so.
I appreciate there are some anomalies here. And I accept some of the details such as the 
mobile number and email address on the application dont appear to match Mr Rs and that 
Mr R does not recall making the application himself. Overall, these anomalies are not 
enough to persuade me to reach a different conclusion. And whilst I acknowledge that there 
could be an explanation behind each of the points Ive discussed above, when they are all 
taken into consideration together and holistically, I dont believe the more likely explanation 
is that this account was taken out without Mr Rs involvement.Overall, I cant see how Mr Rs identity could have been separately stolen in all these 
circumstances to apply for a current account he knew nothing about. Ive closely examined 
the information supplied by both parties and on balance, Im not persuaded that the account 
opened with Starling was done without Mr Rs knowledge or involvement. Ive taken into 
account what Mr R has said, but I think there are too many factors that link Mr R to this 
application and so he is fairly responsible for the account. And I dont think Starling acted 
unfairly in expecting him to repay the money and in contacting him about it. So, I know he 
will be disappointed when I say that I wont be asking Starling to do anything further.
 My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman