DRN-1857708
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Transunion International UK Limited (Transunion) set out his 
address on his credit file.
 
What happened
Mr M lives in a flat and says that, for several years, Transunion hasnt showed the right 
address on his credit file. Mr M says that the flat number isnt shown which makes it look as 
if he lives at a different address. Mr M also says hes not always traced to the electoral roll. 
Mr M has made previous complaints about similar issues and referred them to our service. 
On the previous case, Transunion told us it had a systems issue that meant the format of Mr 
Ms address wasnt correctly reported. 
In December 2019 Mr M complained again as his address didnt feature his flat number on 
the Transunion credit report. Transunion said a different issue had caused Mr Ms address 
problems and that it was reporting the information provided by his local authority. Transunion 
said it had taken action to link Mr M to the electoral roll. 
Mr M referred his case to our service and provided confirmation from his local authority that 
it has reported his address correctly throughout the period in question. Transunion also sent 
us evidence it says shows the council was at fault in the way it reported Mr Ms address. Our 
investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint as they thought Transunuion had made an error in the 
way it reported his address format and asked it to pay him £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Transunion didnt accept and asked to appeal, so Mr Ms complaint 
has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has said, this case relates to the events that occurred from December 
2019. Mr M has complained that his address format was wrong and that meant he wasnt 
linked to the electoral roll. 
Transunion has sent us a spreadsheet it says shows the information reported by the local 
authority changed over time and didnt consistently hold the flat number. I can also see 
weve been sent an internal email that suggests the fault lies with the council. But I need to 
be fair to both parties, and Mr M has also provided us with compelling evidence. 
Mr M has sent us confirmation from his council that it has consistently reported his address 
format in the same way over the years. I can see that the council has confirmed it has 
consistently reported Mr Ms address, including the correct flat numbers. 
Its clear both parties have evidence to support their claims. Whilst I understand Transunion 
says it hasnt made a mistake, Im not persuaded thats the case. Mr M has confirmed that 
the other main credit reference agencies have continued to report his address format 
correctly. Id expect an error by the council in the way it reports an address to be reflected 
across all the credit reference agencies as it doesnt supply separate address details to each 
one. The issue here only impacted Mr Ms Transunion report. On balance, I think its more 
likely than not that the issue with Mr Ms address format and link to the electoral roll was 
caused by Transunion. 
Our investigator asked Transunion to pay Mr M £100 for the trouble and upset caused by the 
issues raised. I agree that £100 fairly reflects the impact of the issues raised here on Mr M. 
As a result, Im endorsing the investigators settlement of £100.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Transunion International UK Limited to 
pay Mr M £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman