DRN-2808678
The complaint
Mr L complained that he wasnt sufficiently compensated for the delays in repairing his car 
under his motor insurance policy with Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage).   
What happened
Advantage agreed to repair Mr Ls car under his policy after making a claim following a 
motor accident. Mr L complained several times to Advantage as there were delays in getting 
his car repaired. Advantage accepted there were issues and delays that were caused by 
poor communications between their appointed contractors and themselves as well as 
inadequate repairs.
Mr L was without his own car for around four months and had the use of a courtesy car 
during this period, which was a newer model to his own car. Advantage acknowledged the 
mistakes and paid out four or five separate compensation amounts, totalling £400. 
Advantage said that a repair should take around one month, so the compensation relates to 
the inconvenience of the additional three months.
Mr L explained that he has an underlying medical condition, which means that when things 
dont happen as expected it causes him additional worry and anxiety. Mr L said hed incurred 
additional costs due to his medical condition.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint and awarded a further £150 in 
compensation. He said, whilst Advantage had been fair in compensating Mr L for the 
distress and inconvenience the delays caused, it hadnt stepped back and considered the 
overall impact of all the delays. Or the larger impact it would have had on Mr L in his 
circumstances. Advantage disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With Advantage accepting what happened, I have looked at whether I think the 
compensation paid is fair given the circumstances of the complaint. I have reviewed 
Advantages response as to why it disagreed with our investigators view. Advantage said it 
thinks the compensation is generous for the facts of the case. It said Mr L had not suffered 
loss and had access to a courtesy car that was newer than his own car. It said it would have 
eradicated any inconvenience for the duration of the repairs. It also said Mr L was provided 
with a good level of service from his case handler, who was attentive and would have 
alleviated the upset caused regarding the repair delays.
I have considered what Advantage has said. I can see by Advantage response that in its 
mind it has been fair in acknowledging the faults in its service and it believes it has been 
reasonable in compensating Mr L as it has. However, whilst I think it has tried to do the right 
thing, I dont think it has considered the complaint from Mr Ls perspective. Mr L has an 
underlying condition, which means this issue would have had a greater impact on him than 
the average person. 
If Mr L had thought his inconvenience had been eradicated and his upset alleviated, he 
wouldnt have felt the need to complain. Advantage said Mr L had not suffered loss. Hed 
had the use of an alternate vehicle. I accept that, but I dont feel enough compensation has 
been considered for the distress Mr L has experienced in his circumstances. It has accepted 
that the repairs to Mr Ls vehicle took roughly four times longer than it shouldve and it was a 
result of several issues that Mr L said had an accumulated impact on his health and 
wellbeing, which was magnified by his underlying condition.
Therefore, I dont think it is reasonable for Advantage to look at each problem as an isolated 
incident. I think the duration of the issues and the number of issues would have created a 
more stressful situation for Mr L. He said the circumstances triggered the need for some help 
in maintaining his wellbeing and this resulted in costs being incurred.
Mr L has not been able to provide readable receipts as evidence for the additional costs he 
has incurred. I accept that Advantage caused him distress, but Im not persuaded it was the 
main reason or predominant cause of his need for treatment.
However, I dont think Advantage have appreciated the full impact these delays had on Mr L. 
He may have had a courtesy car, but its still inconvenient not to have the familiarity of your 
own car for such a long period. The claim dragged on with several delays to the repairs and 
with unclear information about the repairs being provided. Mr L said he no longer trusted the 
work carried out by Advantages representatives and didnt feel safe once his car was finally 
repaired.
His condition means he gets distressed more than normal when this sort of thing happens 
and committed dates are missed. Whilst Advantage has considered each incident in 
awarding compensation, I dont think it has compensated him fully for the overall impact of 
these issues and the impact it had on him in his circumstances. Due to the continual issues 
he faced and the extended duration of these issues, I require Advantage to pay additional 
compensation of £150 for the distress and inconvenience the delays caused (on top of the 
£400 already paid).
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr L:
£150 compensation - for distress and inconvenience
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it that Mr L accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman