DRN-3579636
The complaint
Mr M complains Lloyds Bank PLC didnt help him when he needed to access his accounts 
online whilst stuck abroad.
What happened
Mr M had accounts with Lloyds Bank with significant positive balances at the time of his 
complaint, had been a customer for many years and had a relationship manager.
Mr M says he spends several months in Australia every year and he says that Lloyds Bank 
has his contact details for when hes there. He says he travelled with his family to Australia 
at the end of 2019 and intended to be there for four months. He was, therefore, abroad when 
Covid hit and says he ended up stuck for almost two years.
Mr M says he was expecting a large payment into his account at the time but that he couldnt 
access it online as he found out that he needed a one-time passcode and this was being 
sent to his UK mobile number which hed not taken with him. Mr M contacted Lloyds Bank by 
telephone and was given his balance  which confirmed hed received the payment he was 
expecting  but he says no-one got back to him about arranging online access to his 
accounts. Mr M complained about this saying that he was unable to do anything with his 
money  and that, for example, hed not been able to put it in a higher interest account.
Lloyds Bank investigated Mr Ms complaint and apologised for delays in responding to him 
and the service provided. Lloyds Bank said that it had no record of his contact details in 
Australia or of the letters and emails he said hed sent  and that it was likely it had 
contacted him in 2019 and 2020 using his UK details and had been unable to reach him. 
Lloyds Bank initially offered £25 as an apology and some wine. Lloyds Bank then increased 
its offer to £150. Mr M was unhappy with Lloyds Banks response and so complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and said that they thought the offer 
Lloyds Bank had made was fair and reasonable. Mr M disagreed saying that the offer didnt 
even compensate him for the interest he would have earned had he been able to move his 
money to a higher interest account. He asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint. 
So thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
strong customer authentication
Lloyds Bank made changes to its processes in order to implement strong customer 
authentication regulations. In other words, to implement regulations that changed the way 
businesses authenticate which came into effect in September 2019  the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These regulations affected the whole banking sector and 
retailers and required payment service providers (PSPs) to apply strong customer 
authentication in certain circumstances. Those circumstances are set out in in Article 100 of 
the regulations which says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of payment 
fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and gave the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as the revised Payment Services Directive  define strong customer 
authentication as:
authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, and 
designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, with 
the elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors.Unfortunately for Mr M, some of the changes that Lloyds Bank made to its security 
processes in order to implement strong customer authentication were made whilst Mr M was 
abroad in Australia. I say unfortunately because the changes Lloyds Bank made meant, for 
example, that in order to log into his account online Mr M would have to receive and use a 
one-time passcode that Lloyds Bank would send to his mobile phone. In Mr Ms case, Lloyds 
Bank says that meant hed have to receive a code sent to his UK mobile phone  the only 
number Lloyds Bank says it had on record  which Mr M says he left in the UK.
should Lloyds Bank have done more for Mr M?
I accept that Mr M spoke to a member of staff at Lloyds Bank whilst he was in Australia and 
that he managed to check his balance whilst he was on the phone. I accept too that Mr M 
would have wanted to do something with his money whilst he was stuck in Australia. I do, 
however, accept based on everything that both parties have told me, that Lloyds Bank had 
Mr Ms UK details as its contact details for him and that those were the details it used when it 
tried to contact him. Im satisfied that it wasnt able to reach him on the limited number of 
occasions it tried to speak to him and that it didnt, therefore, update Mr Ms contact details 
to his Australian ones. That could have put his accounts at risk had it done so, so I dont 
think this was entirely unreasonable of Lloyds Bank not to update Mr Ms details. I do, 
however, agree with Mr M that Lloyds Bank should and could have done more to find a 
solution in this case.
I know Mr M would like to be put into the position he would have been had he been able to 
move his money into an account earning higher interest. I do, however, also need to take 
into account the fact that Mr M knew he was going abroad for almost four months but left his 
UK mobile behind. Having taken what both parties did into account, and the fact that Mr M at 
least knew hed received the large payment he was expecting  and not knowing whether he 
had or not would have caused worry  I dont think I can say the offer Lloyds Bank has made 
is unreasonable. So thats the award Im going to make.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman