DRN-3424702
The complaint
Mrs Ts complaint is about charges shes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings. Ill explain why.
Mrs T acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mrs T responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition.
The damage charges that remain
Whilst MBFS have their own vehicle return standards the industry guidelines for what is 
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is 
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). So, I think that 
industry standard is the fairest gauge of whether charges have been levied fairly and Ill use 
that when considering the damage in the inspection reports.
Ive considered the photographs of the damage in the inspection report and compared the 
damage to the BVRLA standard.
Wheel RHF scuff
The BVRLA standard says that scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel 
rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable. The damage in the inspectors photograph exceeds 
that and I think MBFS have been fair to make a charge.
Boot lid, front bumper and LH wing scratches
The BVRLA says that scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not 
showing are acceptable, provided they can be polished out. The damage in the inspectors 
photograph exceeds that and I think MBFS have been fair to make a charge.
Door shut inner LHF and door LHR dents
The BVRLA says that dents of less than 15mm in diameter are acceptable but I think all of 
these dents are in excess of that standard and a charge has been fairly made.
Mirror lamp LH
The BVRLA says minor scuff marks or scratches of 25mm or less are acceptable and I think 
the damage shown in the photograph exceeds that standard and the charge levied is 
therefore reasonable.
LH Front door, door shut inner RHF and door RHF
The BVRLA says that dents of less than 15mm in diameter are acceptable but Im not 
persuaded that the photographic evidence shows that here or that the damage is in excess 
of MBFSs slightly more onerous standard. I think the charges should therefore be waived.
Mrs T is also unhappy about the amount of money MBFS are asking her to pay for each 
repair. I think the charges Ive seen levied are in line with others Ive seen from their 
competitors and I dont think theyre unreasonable.
Putting things right
MBFS should waive the charges theyve made to refurbish the LH Front door, door shut 
inner RHF and door RHF.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to waive the charges they have made for damage to the LH 
Front door, door shut inner RHF and door RHF.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman