DRN-4023470
The complaint
Mr B complained that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) caused a significant delay 
in him being able to access his pension benefits. He says this delay caused a financial loss 
in terms of his funds remaining invested in holding funds during a time of increasing equity 
values and a missed opportunity to apply tax free cash to a property purchase while a stamp 
duty holiday was in force. He would like Aviva to compensate him for these losses and the 
distress and inconvenience caused by this delay.
What happened
Mr B held a pension policy with Aviva which allowed him on maturity to take a tax free lump 
sum and use the remaining funds to buy an annuity. If he wanted to take a tax free lump sum 
and either enter drawdown or leave the remaining funds invested, he would have to transfer 
his benefits into a new policy, either with Aviva or a third party.
Mr B was already over 60 years old at this time. The age of 60 had been originally selected 
as his retirement date, but when this passed with no confirmation from Mr B that he wished 
to take benefits at that time, a new retirement date of his 65th birthday was applied to the 
policy by Aviva.
At some time before December 2020, Mr B transferred the pension benefits he held with 
Aviva into a holding fund as, in his words, he was concerned that world stock markets were 
at highs, and I wanted to preserve the value of my fund and to avoid any potential sharp 
falls before potentially making transfers/withdrawals.
On 20 December 2020, Mr B wrote to Aviva to ask about his options for taking tax free cash 
from his policy and investing the remaining funds into other investments. Aviva has no 
record of this contact and did not reply.
Mr B also began a similar process with a pension policy he held with Standard Life, 
transferring from an older Standard Life policy to one allowing him to enter into drawdown 
and take a tax free lump sum. The process with Standard Life completed within 10 working 
days of the transfer instruction being given. Mr B took out a proportion of these funds in tax 
free cash and reinvested the remainder. Mr B has provided evidence that following this 
transfer, he split his investment funds equally between the following:
oASI World Income Equity Pension Fund,
oBaillie Gifford UK & Worldwide Equity Pension Fund,
oBlackrock ACS World Ex UK Equity Tracker Pension Fund
oHSBC Islamic Global Equity Index Pension Fund
oStandard Life 2010 Overseas Tracker Pension Fund
Mr B contacted Aviva again to follow up on his letter of 20 December on 11 February 2021. 
He was informed that the full transfer value of his benefits could be paid into a new policy, 
with no deductions. Mr B subsequently emailed Aviva on 16 February stating that he wished 
to transfer to a new policy which would allow him to take a tax free lump sum and leave the 
remaining benefits invested. He was asked by Aviva to telephone or use the online 
application process.
Mr B called Aviva on 17 February 2021 to begin this process. During this call he was 
incorrectly informed that he would lose 40% of a loyalty bonus that applied to his policy. This 
reduction only applied to benefits taken or transferred before his original retirement date, 
which had already passed. The call handler further explained that if Mr B waited until after 
his 63rd birthday, the bonus reduction would only be 20%. This incorrect information was 
also repeated in an email to Mr B on 22 February.
Given this erroneous information, Mr B decided to wait until after his 63rd birthday to transfer 
benefits into the new policy. He contacted Aviva again on 20 April and was told that he 
would need to apply for the new policy online, but that he wouldnt in fact lose any of his 
loyalty bonus. Mr B began the online process but ran into difficulties and rang Aviva to ask 
for assistance. He was again told he needed to complete the online process but was again 
unable to complete it and he subsequently abandoned the application. In total, he made 2 
phone calls and 4 attempts to complete the form online on 20 and 21 April.
Experiencing long delays when trying to contact Aviva by phone, Mr B wrote to Aviva on 21 
April to complain primarily about the difficulty he encountered with the online application and 
the contradictory and erroneous information regarding the loyalty bonus and the poor service 
he had encountered. In his complaint, he detailed the specific difficulty he had encountered 
when trying to complete the online application.
Receiving no substantive response to his complaint, Mr B wrote to Aviva again on 2 June 
and 18 August 2021 reiterating his complaints and his dissatisfaction that his transfer had 
still not taken place. 
Mr B also complained about the effect this delay in transferring and accessing his tax free 
cash has had on his financial plans. More specifically, that his funds had remained in a 
holding fund and had missed the opportunity to increase in line with financial markets, as 
well as his intention to help his son to purchase a property to take advantage of the stamp 
duty holiday that had been in place.
Aviva wrote to Mr B on 30 April, 19 May, 11 June, 15 July and 13 August to either 
acknowledge the complaint or to inform him that it was still looking into it.
As he had received no final response to his complaint within 8 weeks, Mr B complained to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service on 12 August, and informed Aviva he had done so.
Aviva eventually responded to Mr Bs complaint on 27 August 2021, when it explained the 
mistake it had made relating to the loyalty bonus, and that no deductions should have 
applied. The letter made no offer of compensation either in relation to Mr Bs distress and 
inconvenience or his claimed financial losses (which it didnt address). But it did say he could 
speak to its specialist team to assist him with the online application that he had been unable 
to complete himself, providing him with a phone number to do that. Mr B received this letter 
on 4 September 2021.
Mr B responded to this letter on 8 September 2021, restating his dissatisfaction that his 
complaint had taken over four months to receive a reply, asking for compensation for his 
claimed financial loss and asking for assistance in transferring his funds to a new policy. Mr 
B also reminded Aviva that he had complained to this service.
Our investigator reviewed all the evidence provided by both parties and came to the view 
that Aviva had indeed caused a delay to Mr Bs transfer request and suggested a form of redress to compensate Mr B for the delay it had caused and the sum of £250 in respect of 
the distress and inconvenience Mr B had suffered. The view also proposed defining the limit 
of the delay Mr B had suffered as being between 17 February 2021 and 13 April 2021 as the 
investigator felt that he could have mitigated the losses he suffered to some extent.
Following the investigators view being shared with Mr B and Aviva, Mr B decided to transfer 
the policy he held with Aviva to Standard Life, which he has been able to do. Both parties 
responded to the investigators view, disagreeing with elements of it and asking for an 
Ombudsman to provide a final decision on this case. The case has now been passed to me 
to review all the evidence and make a final decision.
I issued my provisional decision in February 2023, the relevant parts of which are 
reproduced below and forms part of my decision:
I intend to uphold this complaint, but my reasons and conclusions arent quite the same as 
our investigators, so I think it is fair to explain that to both Mr B and Aviva and give them the 
chance to respond before I make my final decision. I shall explain my reasoning here.
Overall, I think that it is reasonable to conclude Aviva is responsible for causing a significant 
delay to what should have been a relatively straightforward request from Mr B to transfer his 
benefits to a new policy to allow him to take tax free cash from his policy and reinvest the 
remainder.
This delay originally arose from Avivas lack of response to Mr Bs original enquiry of 20 
December 2020. I accept that Aviva has no record of receiving this letter, but as Mr B has 
been able to provide a copy of it I think its reasonable to assume that he did indeed send it 
to Aviva. The delay was then compounded when Mr B spoke to Aviva on 17 February, to 
begin the transfer process, having been correctly informed the previous week that there 
would be no deductions made to the value of his policy as a result of the transfer. During the 
call on 17 February he was incorrectly informed that taking his benefits before April would 
result in a 40% reduction in the loyalty bonus he was due on his policy. As a result of this 
incorrect information, he reasonably decided to wait until after his 63rd birthday, to reduce the 
level of the deduction. I find it reasonable to conclude that the responsibility for the delay in 
transferring Mr Bs policy up to 20 April 2021 is a result of him being provided with this 
incorrect information. In terms of establishing the date when this delay began, I think it 
reasonable to consider that Aviva would likely have responded to Mr Bs letter of 20 
December by 31 December, and Mr B to have sent his email requesting the transfer to go 
ahead 3 working days later, on 6 January 2021. Assuming the application form could have 
been completed immediately on 7 January and the transfer completed within 10 working 
days, I find it reasonable to conclude Mr B would have reinvested his funds on 21 January 
2021.
I now must turn to the delay that occurred as a result of the difficulties Mr B encountered 
when trying to transfer his existing policy to a new policy using the online application form. I 
have to decide whether Mr B was unable to complete the form as the result of Aviva doing 
something wrong. 
Essentially, this element of the complaint stems from Mr Bs contention that Aviva further 
delayed his transfer by not providing him with help to complete the online form. He was 
informed in a telephone call on 20 April that he would have to complete the application for 
the policy online, but he struggled to do so as he was unsure of how to complete some of the 
information requirements. The form asked Mr B to give the age at which he wanted to retire 
and take his benefits, which he found confusing as he was already retired and the form 
would not accept a date which was in the past. He wanted to take his benefits immediately 
and was concerned that if he gave a later age this would not be possible. The call handler had offered to stay on the line while Mr B completed the application, but he declined the offer 
before encountering the difficulty. 
Mr B wrote to Aviva on 21 April to complain about the poor service he had received and to 
provide details about the issues he had encountered when trying to complete the online 
application in his letter of complaint.
Aviva did not use the information Mr B provided in his complaint to either assist him in 
completing the online application or explain to him how he could do it himself in any of the 
communications it sent to him while his complaint was being investigated. Aviva wrote to Mr 
B on 19 May 2021 to provide him with a scheduled update, a letter which included the 
following: 
thank you for your patience whilst we investigate your concerns.
Mr B wrote to Aviva on 2 June again highlighting that he had not had a response on his 
problems making the online application, and clearly indicating that he considered action to 
enable him to complete the online form as a separate issue to resolving his complaint, 
stating:
I will now expect some form of contact from you within the next 14 days which enable me to:
1. Move my funds in their entirety to a new plan
2. Withdraw the 25% tax free element
And I will then expect to hear further from you with regard to my complaint.
Aviva responded on 11 June to inform him of the progress on assessing his complaint, but 
made no concrete offer of assistance with completing the online application:
We have contacted you to advise your complaint is being reviewed. Sorry we havent been 
able to give a decision yet. We hope to be able to provide a decision as soon as possible. 
Aviva provided Mr B with more reassurance that his issues could be resolved when it wrote 
to him on 15 July, saying:
We do appreciate your patience. We are currently reviewing your complaint to provide an 
outcome.
Aviva did not provide Mr B with any information relating to his problems with the online 
application until he received the final response to his complaint on 27 August when this 
aspect of his complaint was covered simply by asking him to call Avivas specialist team. 
I recognise that firms have eight weeks to deal with complaints and that theres a 
requirement to acknowledge the complaint and keep complainants informed about progress. 
Although Aviva took substantially longer to respond to Mr Bs complaint, it did send Mr B 
regular updates about the progress of his complaint, so it could be argued that Aviva was 
within its rights to not substantively respond to the element of Mr Bs complaint that 
described his difficulties with the online form any earlier than the rest of his complaint.
Having said that, I also think its important to keep an eye on the bigger picture here, and 
look at this in terms of The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for Businesses, 
most pertinently:
Principle 2 (A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence)
Principle 6 (a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers)Principle 7 (A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading)
I consider that these principles are relevant to this case and form a key part of the regulatory 
framework that companies such as Aviva operate in. In essence, I have to consider whether 
Aviva treated Mr B fairly by not providing him with a response to the difficulties he had 
specifically outlined when trying to complete the online form.
In this particular circumstance, Mr B was very specific about what he wanted to happen. And 
it would have been extremely simple in this particular case for Aviva to have moved things 
forward for Mr B by either helping with the particular problem he was facing with his online 
application or, if that wasnt feasible, pointing him to the specialist team (as per its final 
response letter) or telling him to explore other options such as taking out a policy via an IFA 
or transferring to another provider. Aviva would also have known that it had previously given 
Mr B erroneous information that had already caused significant delays in him taking action. 
So I think just considering this through the prism of a complaint investigation is missing the 
point somewhat here. 
I think its fair and reasonable to say Aviva could have moved things forward for Mr B one 
way or the other far sooner than it did. But it needed to get to grips with the issue at hand - 
which I think it reasonably should, and could, have done quickly - rather than just treat it as a 
complaint issue. With the FCAs principles in mind, I think Aviva fell short here and didnt 
treat Mr B fairly.
I have also considered very carefully whether Mr B should have acted to mitigate any effect 
of his remaining invested in the holding fund during the period while he was waiting for Aviva 
to respond to his complaint. I consider that a mitigation in terms of expecting Mr B to incur 
dealing and spread costs by reinvesting temporarily into equity based funds within his 
existing policy would have been unreasonable. Having said that, I also think its reasonable 
to expect that Mr B should have concluded at some point that he needed to do take some 
action, most likely the action he eventually did take by transferring his policy to a new 
provider. After this point it wouldnt be fair to hold Aviva responsible for Mr Bs actions. 
Putting a date on that point is difficult. But I think that 6 September 2021, the first working 
day after he received Avivas final response letter to his initial complaint is a reasonable 
tipping point between Mr B reasonably expecting Aviva should be able to resolve the issue 
and the realisation that it had done all it was ever going to do. 
I find that this date is also appropriate as although Mr Bs complaint took longer than eight 
weeks to respond to, Aviva wrote to him on three occasions prior to sending the final 
response to reassure him that they were looking into his complaint  I think it reasonable that 
he did not chase Aviva more proactively or take any mitigating action during this period as 
he had received those assurances.
Consequently, I find it fair and reasonable to hold Aviva responsible for any loss that Mr B 
may have suffered during this period. I shall come on to the issue of how Aviva should put 
things right for Mr B in this respect, but I also believe it is reasonable to assume that he 
would have done something different with his funds rather than keeping them invested in the 
holding funds. I think its fair and reasonable to assume that he would have followed a similar 
investment strategy to the one he used with Standard Life reinvesting his funds, and that 
should be the basis of any loss calculation.
In terms of the other element of Mr Bs claimed loss, the missed opportunity to use the tax 
free cash to help fund a childs property purchase during the stamp duty holiday, while I 
accept that Mr B has provided evidence that he carried out a similar transaction for another 
child through a pension policy, I do not intend to uphold this element of the complaint.Whilst I accept buying a property may have been part of Mr Bs thinking to begin with, I dont 
think I can reasonably conclude that a property would have been purchased given the 
greater uncertainties in that kind of transaction. And even if a property would have been 
purchased, I cant reasonably conclude what property would have been purchased, what its 
purchase price would have been, when it would have been purchased and what returns (if 
any) would have followed. In the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
to make any assumptions in relation to a property purchase. That said, my redress formula 
below takes the view that Mr B wouldnt have remained in a holding fund but would have 
been invested in the financial markets instead. So my redress does assume Mr Bs entire 
pension fund would have been put to better use than it was. In the circumstances, I think this 
is a fair and reasonable approach to compensating Mr B.
Mr B responded and said that he was happy to accept my provisional decision.
Aviva also responded, accepting my decision, but indicated that it was having difficulty 
identifying the specific funds Mr B had invested in with Standard Life. Mr B was able to 
provide further evidence relating to these funds, which was passed to Aviva. He also offered 
to provide any further information Aviva required and provide any necessary permissions for 
Standard Life to provide any relevant information direct to Aviva.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision to uphold this complaint remains the same as set out in my 
provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
Essentially, no new material points have been made that persuade me to change my 
decision. Im satisfied that the key points remain the same and have been considered by me 
in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr B should be put back as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if the transfer had taken place without the delay which I find is 
attributable to Aviva. I find for the reasons given above that the period of that delay for the 
purposes of this calculation should be between 21 January 2021 and 6 September 2021, the 
first working day after receiving the response to his complaint of 21 April.
Im also satisfied that this matter will have caused Mr B considerable distress and 
inconvenience over a prolonged period. I agree with our investigator that £250 is a fair and 
reasonable amount for this.
I think Mr B would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr B's 
circumstances and the investment strategy he used when investing the funds held by 
Standard Life.
To compensate Mr B fairly, Aviva must:
Compare the actual performance of Mr B's funds during the calculation period with the 
notional value if they had been invested equally (20% each) in each of the investments 
listed below. oASI World Income Equity Pension Fund,
oBaillie Gifford UK & Worldwide Equity Pension Fund,
oBlackrock ACS World Ex UK Equity Tracker Pension Fund
oHSBC Islamic Global Equity Index Pension Fund
oStandard Life 2010 Overseas Tracker Pension Fund
If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no compensation is payable. If the 
notional value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Aviva should add interest as set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, Aviva should pay into Mr B's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Aviva is unable to pay the compensation into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr B would have been 
able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr B £250 in respect of distress and inconvenience.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aviva deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Aviva should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Aviva SIPP No longer 
existsNotional value 
had Mr B 
transferred in 
line with his 
preferences as 
of 21 January 
202121 January 
20216 
September 
20218% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
If the information about the funds listed above is not available, Aviva shall use the 
benchmark of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return using the comparison with Mr Bs investment strategy with Standard Life or the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr Bs approach to investing his pension funds is evidenced by the approach he 
took with the investments he made with Standard Life at a similar time to the 
investments he wanted to make with Aviva.
As an alternative, the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 
1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up 
of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some 
risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr B's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold the complaint. My final decision is that Aviva Life and 
Pensions UK Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman