DRN-3722583
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has 
proposed to settle a claim they made for subsidence damage to their home.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S property has suffered from subsidence damage caused by the effects of 
nearby tree roots. The trees are owned by the local authority.
Lloyds liaised with the local authority to have the trees cut down to stumps. But the stumps 
werent to be chemically treated due to the risk of translocation  damage to other nearby 
trees through a touching root system. After this, Mr and Mrs S property was determined to 
be stable and ready to be repaired by Lloyds.
Mr and Mrs S have raised concerns that any repairs to their property will not be lasting or 
effective unless the trees are fully removed, or the property is stabilised in another way. 
They want Lloyds to consider other methods of stabilisation, or to include a provision for 
further management of any root/tree regrowth in the claim settlement.
Lloyds says the responsibility for managing regrowth rests with the local authority as the 
owner of the trees. It has provided monitoring results which show that the removal of the 
trees  down to stumps  has stabilised the property. So, once it settles the claim for the 
damage, which Mr and Mrs S have so far refused due to their concerns about potential 
future damage, Lloyds says it will have put them back in the position they were in prior to the 
insured event. 
Lloyds has also said that if subsidence damage reoccurs, as a result of the same root 
system, it will deal with the damage as part of this existing claim, rather than opening a new 
claim.
One of our investigators considered Mr and Mrs S complaint. She didnt think it should be 
upheld. She explained that she couldnt make an award for something which might happen 
in the future. She said Lloyds had taken appropriate action by identifying the cause of 
subsidence and having it removed. She said it was the local authoritys responsibility to 
manage the regrowth and, if it failed to do so and this caused damage, Lloyds was prepared 
to deal with any new damage as part of the same claim. So, she thought Lloyds handling of 
the claim was fair.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators opinion. So, because no agreement has 
been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions our investigator reached. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S policy covers them for damage to their property caused by subsidence. It 
doesnt specifically cover removing the cause of subsidence. However, our service has a 
longstanding approach that any repairs must be lasting and effective. And for subsidence 
damage, that typically means the insurer will also need to address the cause of subsidence.
The cause of subsidence damage in this case isnt in dispute. It was clay shrinkage caused 
by the water demands of the root system of nearby trees, owned by the local authority. 
Lloyds carried out typical investigations including soil samples, level monitoring and 
obtaining an arboriculturists report. It presented evidence to the local authority to 
demonstrate its trees were responsible for the subsidence damage, and to obtain its 
cooperation in removing the trees  down to stumps  and periodically managing the 
regrowth. 
Many of the above actions were the subject of a previous complaint our service considered, 
so Ill not be making any findings on the reasonableness of Lloyds approach up to that point.
This complaint centres on Mr and Mrs S concerns from 2022. They told our service the local 
authority hadnt yet been back to manage the regrowth. Based on this, they were concerned 
with accepting the settlement for repairs as they feared the regrowth would result in further 
damage. 
During the life of this complaint, Mr and Mrs S have since highlighted that cracking damage 
within their property has gotten worse, and that the local authority did subsequently return to 
manage regrowth  in December 2022.
Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs S concerns in this case. But the evidence Ive seen, 
in the form of the monitoring results and arboriculturists report, both support that in having 
the trees removed  down to stumps  the property has been stabilised (save for minor 
movement of one corner which is within acceptable seasonable movement tolerances). 
Given this, Lloyds would not be in a position to compel the local authority to fully remove the 
trees, as the evidence doesnt support that this is necessary. However, it has put the local 
authority on notice of its responsibility, as the owner of the trees, to manage the regrowth in 
line with the arboriculturists report, to prevent further damage to Mr and Mrs S property in 
the future.
So, Lloyds has identified and remedied (via the local authority) the source of the subsidence 
and has made an offer to settle the claim for the resultant damage. Providing the regrowth is 
managed by the local authority, Im satisfied the repairs to the property will be lasting and 
effective. And should the local authority fail to meet its obligation to manage the regrowth, 
Lloyds has confirmed it will deal with any new damage (from the same cause) as part of the 
same claim. In the circumstances of this complaint, I consider that Lloyds position here is 
fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs S have pointed to a decision another ombudsman issued about similar  
although not identical  circumstances. In that complaint, it was decided that it was 
unreasonable for the insurer to leave the policyholders in a position of uncertainty with 
regard to the future maintenance of the offending tree. Mr and Mrs S feel their situation 
mirrors that of the policyholder in my ombudsman colleagues decision. Ultimately, they say 
any repairs to their home will not be lasting and effective as there is no guarantee that the 
local authority will maintain the regrowth as required.Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs S argument here. But our service decides each 
complaint on its own individual facts, which is what Ive done when deciding Mr and Mrs S 
case. I have limited knowledge of the case Mr and Mrs S refer to as I wasnt the deciding 
ombudsman. But from reading the information theyve provided, it is clear that the case 
involves different circumstances. Of key importance, the local authority was only involved as 
there was a tree protection order in place. The tree was owned by a third party who had not 
responded, or consented, to any requests to manage the vegetation.
In Mr and Mrs S case, the local authority is the owner of the tree. And rather than not 
responding, it has shown a willingness to accept its responsibilities by removing the 
vegetation initially and returning to manage the regrowth. So, in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs S case, I dont consider that that there is a high likelihood of the maintenance 
not being carried out.
Should the above prove incorrect, Lloyds has confirmed it would deal with any new damage 
under the same claim. And should this happen, Mr and Mrs S could potentially raise a new 
complaint about the efficacy of the current solution and request that Lloyds reconsider 
alternative methods of stabilisation at that stage. Should Mr and Mrs S remain unhappy with 
Lloyds position at that point, theyd be able to refer those concerns to our service as a new 
complaint (subject to our normal rules) and its possible, in the face of that new hypothetical 
evidence of the local authoritys failure to maintain the regrowth, that we might reach a 
different outcome on what would be fair and reasonable. Although, of course, Im unable to 
prejudge the outcome of a hypothetical, future complaint.
As things currently stand, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I think Lloyds has 
done enough to address the cause of subsidence. So, all that remains at this stage is for it to 
settle the claim for damage in line with the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs S policy. 
Both parties will need to liaise with each other directly about the next steps in doing this.
Im aware that Lloyds offered a cash settlement to Mr and Mrs S which they disputed on the 
basis that it didnt include a provision for managing regrowth and some concerns they had 
about the allowance for repairs at the junction of their main house and extension. Lloyds 
says it has already increased the offer for the second point and, based on my findings 
above, I dont consider that it needs to include a provision for managing the regrowth. 
However, given Mr and Mrs S have highlighted a worsening of the cracking over the 
summer, Lloyds may wish to consider reassessing its offer to ensure its sufficient to address 
all the subsidence damage. But Ill leave that for the parties to discuss between themselves.
Should any further dispute arise over the works included in, or the amount or method of the 
proposed settlement, this will need to be dealt with as a separate complaint  and with 
Lloyds in the first instance.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman