DRN-3704057
The complaint
Ms D complains BUPA Insurance Limited did not inform her that she may have been unable 
to receive the treatment it had authorised, due to her BMI (body mass index).  
What happened
Ms D is a beneficiary of her employers private medical insurance policy, underwritten by 
BUPA. 
Following abnormal bowel symptoms in May 2021, Ms D was advised by her GP that she 
needed to undergo an urgent cancer screening colonoscopy. 
Ms D contacted BUPA, and it authorised the procedure with a specialist  Dr A. Following a 
consultation, Dr As secretary contacted Ms D and said due to her high BMI score, the 
planned treating hospital, and another which Dr A worked from, would be unable to carry out 
the procedure under sedation. 
For personal reasons, Ms D felt unable to go ahead with the procedure while conscious and 
required deep sedation. She contacted BUPA and explained what had happened. It agreed 
to provide details of other consultants and other hospitals Ms D could use. Ms D said the 
issue was not with the consultant, but with the hospitals, who would not agree to perform the 
procedure under deep sedation, due to her BMI. And she said BUPA seemed unaware of 
any restrictions due to BMI and had not warned her of this potential issue.
Ms D went back to her GP who arranged the procedure through the NHS. Initially this was to 
be performed without deep sedation. However, Ms D has said she went to great lengths to 
explain her personal history and circumstances. And ultimately, she was able to go ahead 
with the procedure through the NHS, under deep sedation. 
Ms D complained to BUPA. She said she thought the issue around BMI and procedures 
requiring sedation was a significant exclusion, which BUPA should have highlighted in its 
policy documentation. And she said BUPA should have told her about this when she first 
made contact about needing the colonoscopy. She said shed wasted time, delaying her 
urgently needed cancer screening, and had been through a terrible experience which she 
thought could have mostly been avoided, had she been advised of the BMI issue at the 
outset. She said if shed been told, she would have gone directly to the NHS and the Patient 
Liaison and Advice Service for assistance in ensuring she could be deeply sedated during 
the colonoscopy procedure. 
Ms D has said she underwent a procedure in the past, using her cover with BUPA, and at 
one of the same hospitals. She was sedated for the previous operation, and said it was likely 
her BMI at that time was higher. She said she believes the majority of private hospitals will 
now refuse operations under sedation for patients with a BMI over 40. And she said at no 
time has she been advised by BUPA, that those with a BMI over a certain level will not be 
permitted to undergo procedures at most private hospitals. 
BUPA responded to Ms Ds complaint. It said it had authorised the treatment she requested. 
And the decision not to offer it in Ms Ds case, was made by the individual hospitals, based 
on medical guidance. So it was beyond BUPAs control. It said there is no exclusion within 
the policy related to BMI and procedures requiring sedation, so this isnt something it would 
highlight to policyholders. And as the decision on whether or not to provide treatment under 
sedation is made by the individual hospitals, this wasnt something it would have been able 
to advise on in advance. 
Unhappy with BUPAs response, Ms D brought her complaint to this service. And when 
doing so, said she was unhappy BUPA had misspelled her name in the final response letter. 
She said the response lacked empathy. And she wants BUPA to highlight the issue around 
BMI and procedures requiring sedation, for all policyholders. She also said BUPA should pay 
her compensation.
I put these additional complaint points to BUPA. It apologised for spelling Ms Ds first name 
incorrectly and said this was a human error. And it said it thought its complaint response 
letter had been apologetic, informative and friendly in tone. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I said: 
Im aware of the circumstances which made it so very important to Ms D that her 
colonoscopy procedure was carried out under sedation. These are very personal 
circumstances, and are known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
I can understand Ms Ds upset and frustration at being refused the procedure under 
sedation, by the private treating hospitals local to her. However, what I need to 
consider is whether or not BUPA has acted fairly and reasonably. 
Ms D has said she expected BUPA should have been aware of the restrictions 
around BMI, imposed by the private hospitals. And said it should have told her about 
this, and included the information within the policy documentation. 
Ive thought carefully about this, and I think its reasonable to expect that BUPA 
should highlight any particularly unusual or significant limitations to policyholders in 
its documentation. However, I dont think its fair to say BUPA should have 
highlighted the potential for difficulties arranging procedures under sedation, due to a 
high BMI. This is because the issues Ms D encountered were not due to any 
exclusions or limitations within her policy cover; there is no exclusion in relation to 
BMI and procedures carried out under sedation.  BUPA authorised the colonoscopy 
procedure Ms D needed, and Im satisfied it acted correctly in doing so. However it 
was the individual private hospitals where Ms Ds chosen consultant worked, who 
made a decision about the treatment they could offer her. 
Ms D provided a letter from one of the hospitals who refused the procedure under 
sedation, and the content shows this was a clinical decision, made by the hospital, 
based on BMI. This is the individual treating hospitals own policy, so I cant 
reasonably say this is something which BUPA can be held responsible for, or should 
have been advising consumers about in its policy documentation. 
Whilst I appreciate Ms Ds experience was extremely stressful and disappointing, I 
dont think BUPA could reasonably have known, or warned in advance, that she 
might be refused a procedure under sedation by her local private hospitals.  Ms Ds 
policy is not medically underwritten, so I dont think it would be fair to expect BUPA to have held a record of her BMI, or to have asked her for this at the point of authorising 
the claim, as its not something which was needed to authorise treatment. 
In authorising a procedure, BUPA is confirming the costs can be covered by the 
policy  this isnt a medical assessment and doesnt substitute medical advice. Its a 
matter for the treating doctor and medical facility to decide if and how the treatment 
will proceed. I also dont think it would be reasonable for me to hold BUPA 
responsible for decisions made by the treating hospitals, as I accept this is something 
which is beyond an insurers control. And, I dont think it would be reasonable or 
practical, to expect BUPA to hold an up to date working knowledge of each private 
hospitals criteria for all of the treatments and procedures which might be covered 
under the policy. 
Ms D has referred to a change in medical guidelines, and has said she believes this 
has caused many private hospitals to refuse procedures under sedation for patients 
whose BMI is above 40. I wont comment on the reasons the treating hospitals make 
these decisions, as this complaint is about the actions of BUPA, and not of the 
healthcare providers. However, when Ms D contacted BUPA in September 2021, it 
said it was unfortunate that the three hospitals closest to her had refused to perform 
the procedure, and confirmed it wouldnt be aware of which hospitals would or would 
not agree to carry it out. And as Ive explained above, I dont think its unreasonable 
that BUPA would not hold this information. BUPA offered to provide a list of approved 
hospitals and consultants in the wider area. I think those actions were reasonable in 
the circumstances. And Im not currently persuaded it would be fair to expect BUPA 
to have done anything more. 
Call handling 
Ive listened to a call between Ms D and BUPA in September 2021, which was after 
Ms D became aware her local private hospitals would not perform the colonoscopy 
under sedation. The call handler stated he was unaware of any hospital restrictions 
around procedures requiring sedation due to BMI.  And he offered to provide details 
of both other consultants and other hospitals in the wider area, which Ms D could 
contact. I think the handling of the call was appropriate, and as Ive explained above, 
the offer to provide details of other hospitals and consultants is what I would expect 
an insurer to do in these circumstances. 
Ive not reviewed any calls prior to this. This is because its not in dispute that BUPA 
didnt query Ms Ds BMI, or provide any information in relation to this, when the 
colonoscopy procedure was authorised. 
Content of the final response letter
BUPA has offered an apology for the misspelling of Ms Ds first name, which I think is 
sufficient in the circumstances. And its said that it didnt think its final response 
lacked empathy. Having reviewed the letter, I dont think theres anything more BUPA 
needs to do in regard to this. I can understand why Ms D would have preferred more 
empathy to have been shown, but Im satisfied the tone of the letter was appropriate, 
it provided the necessary information, and an apology was offered in relation to Ms D 
being unable to use her policy cover for the colonoscopy procedure. 
 
Whilst I sympathise with the difficult time Ms D has been through, and the delays in 
her receiving the urgently required colonoscopy, Im not currently persuaded this was 
caused by BUPAs actions, or that it should reasonably have done anything differently in the circumstances. And so it follows that I dont think BUPA needs to 
pay Ms D compensation, or take any other action. 
The response to my provisional decision 
BUPA made no comments on my provisional decision. Ms D responded and in summary she 
said;
the timescales and delays involved with the urgent cancer screening colonoscopy 
have not been considered;
BUPA should have told her in its policy documentation and through contact, that 
some private hospitals would not offer a procedure under deep sedation above a 
certain BMI;
the procedure under deep sedation has not been understood;
a call recording between Ms D and one of the treating hospitals should be reviewed 
and the hospital did not carry out a valid clinical assessment; and
paying a premium puts a duty on an insurer to pay a valid claim and BUPA needs to 
show Ms D could access the procedure she needed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again my provisional findings in light of the response.
Id considered the delays in Ms D having the urgently needed colonoscopy and referenced in 
my provisional decision that I didnt think these were caused by BUPA.
Id noted Ms Ds comments around significant exclusions, rule changes at private hospitals  
and her opinion that BUPA should have informed her of difficulties she could encounter due 
to her BMI. However, as I explained in my provisional decision, Ms D wasnt unable to have 
the procedure she needed under deep sedation due to any exclusions or limitations within 
her policy cover. BUPA authorised the treatment and it was the individual hospitals who 
made a decision about whether or not they could offer it. As the insurer, BUPA is responsible 
for advising its members about the eligibility of claiming treatment costs under its policies  
Its for the treating hospital to make a decision around how and if the treatment can proceed 
within the scope of the services it provides. And I still dont think it is reasonable to expect 
that BUPA would have been aware of the procedures of individual treating hospitals, or Ms 
Ds BMI. Ms Ds BMI wasnt discussed with BUPA at the point she sought pre-authorisation 
for her treatment and its not information BUPA would hold.  So it follows Im still not 
persuaded that BUPA was required to inform Ms D that she might have difficulty finding a 
hospital willing to carry out the procedure under deep sedation due to her BMI.
Although Ive not described the specifics of the colonoscopy procedure and Ms Ds reasons 
for wanting to be deeply sedated in my decision, I have had sufficient clarity on this when 
making my decision.  
The complaint Ive considered is against BUPA and not the treating hospitals. And because 
of this, Ive not considered the additional comments Ms D has made regarding the hospitals. 
Similarly, Ive not found it necessary to listen to calls between Ms D and the hospitals, as I 
dont find those to be relevant in assessing BUPAs actions. Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that BUPA refused to pay a valid claim. Im satisfied 
BUPA authorised the treatment, and provided details of hospitals and consultants which 
could be utilised. And it offered to provide alternatives after Ms D advised of the problems 
shed encountered. Ive seen no evidence which leads me to think BUPA was unwilling to 
pay the invoices related to the claim, had the treatment gone ahead at a private hospital. So 
I remain of the opinion that BUPA has not acted unfairly.
The points Ms D raised havent changed my mind, so I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. And I make 
no award against BUPA Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman