DRN-3685440
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Quilter Financial Services Ltd (Quilter) gave her unsuitable advice to 
switch her Personal Pension (PP) with her original provider (provider A) to a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) with another provider (provider B).
Mrs L is represented in her complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). But Ill 
only refer to her in my decision.
Mrs Ls adviser worked for a different business when he advised Mrs L on the switch at the 
heart of this complaint. But Quilter are responsible for this complaint. And Ill only refer to 
them in my decision. 
What happened
Mrs L started to contribute to her PP in May 1991. She invested her contributions in the With 
Profits fund. Her only other pension provision was her State Pension entitlement.
Mrs L first met her adviser on 24 November 2014 to discuss her financial position. I 
understand that at this time, her PP was a paid up policy, and that Mrs L appointed the 
adviser to be the servicing agent. I also understand that the adviser provider Mrs L with 
disclosure documentation and completed a fact find at this point. 
Quilter said that at the time of the advice, Mrs L was unhappy with the way her PP with 
provider A had been performing. 
At the time of the advice:
Mrs L was aged 48 
She was married, with no dependants.
She was employed and earned around £23,000 each year. 
She owned a property worth around £100,000.
The PP with provider A was worth around £13,000, with a potential terminal bonus of 
£2,619.35 also being available if she transferred.
Mrs L wanted £12,000 each year in retirement at age 67.
Her estimated income at retirement, including state pension, was £7,400 each year.
Mrs L had a second meeting with her adviser on 24 April 2015. At this meeting, he advised 
her to switch her PP with provider A to a SIPP with provider B. And to invest 99% of her 
funds into a named fund, which he felt matched her conservative attitude to risk profile. The 
other 1% of her funds was to be held in the SIPP cash account. Mrs Ls adviser said that the 
fund he recommended was aligned to Mrs Ls risk profile. He said this was that of a 
conservative investor with limited investment experience and a low capacity for loss. Mrs L 
completed all of the relevant paperwork for the recommended switch. 
On 17 November 2020, Mrs L complained to Quilter through her CMC. She felt that shed 
received negligent advice. She said that, at the time of advice, she had no previous 
investment experience. And a low capacity for loss and attitude to risk. She said shed 
suffered a loss as a result of the advice. She wanted to be put back into the position she 
wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice. 
Quilter issued their final response to the complaint on 18 December 2020. They didnt 
uphold the complaint. They made the following points:
-They had no record of Mrs L querying any of the details included in the Suitability 
Report dated 24 April 2015, which they said gave full details of the rationale behind 
the switch recommendation. They felt it was reasonable to assume that she was 
happy with the contents at the time. 
-They felt that an investor didnt need to be a sophisticated investor to be considered 
suitable for a SIPP. They said this was because a SIPP could be used as a 
straightforward PP, but with additional investment options if required.
-They felt that theyd undertaken an adequate assessment of Mrs Ls expertise, 
experience, knowledge and financial situation. 
-They didnt agree that their recommendations were unsuitable for Mrs Ls attitude to 
risk. Or that theyd failed to consider her capacity for loss. 
-They didnt agree that theyd failed to assess Mrs Ls investment objectives or 
consider her other assets.
-They didnt agree theyd failed to advise on the overall costs of the recommendation. 
-They felt theyd complied with the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules. 
Unhappy, Mrs L brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that the SIPP with provider 
B was more expensive than the PP with provider A. And noted that the cost of switching 
would effectively reduce the investment returns. He also noted that the investment fund the 
adviser had recommended with provider B had been available with provider A. 
Our investigator didnt consider that sufficient clear advantages had been identified for the 
recommended switch to be considered appropriate. He recommended that Mrs L should be 
put back into the position she most likely wouldve been in if shed not been given the 
unsuitable advice. He also felt that Quilter should pay Mrs L £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience theyd caused. 
Quilter strongly disagreed with our investigator. They made the following points:
They acknowledged that Mrs Ls SIPP with provider B was more expensive than her 
PP with provider A. But felt that no one could definitively say whether a With Profits 
Fund would outperform an alternative fund over the longer term.
They said that provider A had paid a terminal bonus of £2,619.35, which wasnt 
guaranteed, as part of the transfer value. They felt that this meant the switch had effectively crystallised the bonus, which she may not have been entitled to at a later 
date. 
Quilter felt that Mrs Ls attitude to investment risk couldve change over time. And if it 
had, she wouldve been able to take advantage of the wider fund choice with provider 
B.
They said the adviser, who hadnt been the servicing adviser for Mrs L since June 
2018, felt that if Mrs L had responded to any of his requests for annual reviews, a 
fund switch wouldve been made away from original recommended fund. They said 
that he had highlighted a suitable alternative fund for Mrs Ls consideration. And 
asked her to contact him to determine if this would be suitable. 
They felt the adviser had provided Mrs L with suitable and appropriate initial advice 
and ample opportunities for ongoing servicing.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I consider that the advice was unsuitable. Ill explain 
the reasons for my decision.
In 2009 the Financial Services Authority (now the FCA) published a report and checklist for 
pension switching that is still applicable. That checklist identified four main areas where 
consumers had lost out:
-They had been switched to a pension that was more expensive than their existing 
one without good reason.
-They had lost benefits in the pension switch without good reason. This could include 
guarantees or the right to take benefits at an earlier than normal retirement age.
-They had switched into a pension that didnt match their recorded attitude to risk and 
personal circumstances.
-They had switched into a pension where there was a need for ongoing investment 
reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
From what Ive seen, Mrs L was encouraged to switch to a pension that was more expensive 
than her existing one. Ive considered below whether there was good reason for that. Ive 
also considered whether the recommended SIPP investment matched Mrs Ls recorded 
attitude to risk and personal circumstances.
Ive seen no evidence that Mrs L lost benefits from the pension switch. I say this because 
there were no guarantees that she lost by switching. However, Quilter have argued that as 
the terminal bonus with provider A crystallised as part of the transfer value, Mrs L received a 
bonus that she may not have been entitled to at a later date. They said this offset the 
increased charges that she incurred through the switch. 
Ive carefully considered this point. And although I agree that the terminal bonus with 
provider A wasnt guaranteed, I dont agree that a terminal bonus wouldnt have been paid at the maturity date, or any other transfer date. Therefore Im not persuaded that it would be 
fair or reasonable to use the terminal bonus to offset the increased charges of the switch. As 
I dont consider that any benefits were lost  or gained  as a result of the transfer, Ive not 
considered this point any further in my decision. 
Ive also not considered the final bullet point above in any detail. This is because I consider 
that ongoing investment reviews were discussed to a suitable degree in the Suitability 
Report. I say this because the report recorded that Mrs L had agreed to a biennial review of 
her SIPP.
Quilter gave the following reasons for their recommendation to switch to the SIPP with 
provider B:
-Mrs L wanted to move away from With Profits investment. 
-Provider A only offered 79 funds, whereas provider B offered a wider variety of fund 
choices.
-Provider A didnt offer her any fund choices that aligned with her attitude to risk.
-The charging structure was identical to those in the PP with provider A, although the 
advice charges would reduce growth in the SIPP by 2.5% each year.
From what Ive seen, Mrs L was correctly identified as a cautious or conservative investor. 
This meant she didnt want to take on much investment risk. 
I understand that at the time of the advice, Mrs L was unhappy with how her With Profits 
fund with provider A had been performing. As our investigator said, such an investment was 
consistent with her conservative attitude to risk. The fund had been receiving an annual 
bonus over the years. Since 2009, part of Mrs Ls fund had received an annual bonus of 
3.75% and part received 5%. While the bonuses werent guaranteed, they couldnt be taken 
away once theyd been added. 
The fund Mrs Ls adviser recommended she moved to within the new SIPP could also 
reasonably be classified as a conservative fund. Therefore its extremely hard to see how 
Mrs L could hope to achieve the significantly improved fund growth she wanted  especially 
after the initial charge had reduced the fund growth by 2.5% each year  if she simply 
switched to another conservative fund. 
Mrs Ls adviser noted that there were 79 funds available in provider A, but that more were 
available with provider B. And that the fund he recommended with provider B was a 
regulated fund, which was suitable for a retail investor. 
Ive seen no evidence that Mrs L needed access to more funds at the time of the advice. But 
Quilter also said that Mrs Ls attitude to investment risk couldve changed over time. And that 
if it had, she wouldve been able to take advantage of the wider fund choice with provider B.
Ive carefully considered this point. But I dont agree that there was any need for Mrs L to 
transfer at the time of the advice simply because there might be a time in the future when 
she needed more investment choice. In that case, Im satisfied that she couldve switched at 
the point that her need for more funds arose.
The Suitability Report stated that provider A didnt:
 offer you any fund choices that align with your attitude to risk, therefore not allowing you to select a fund that matches your requirements
From what Ive seen, provider A clearly could offer fund choices that aligned with Mrs Ls 
attitude to risk. For one thing, she was already invested in a fund which Im satisfied 
matched her investment risk profile. And for another, provider As Pension Fund list showed 
that the named fund the adviser recommended with provider B, was in fact available through 
provider A. So Mrs Ls adviser couldve made the same investment recommendation without 
the need for an expensive switch.  
Ive seen no evidence that Quilter considered the option of remaining with provider A, but 
moving to a different fund. And they certainly didnt provide Mrs L with the cost comparison 
between that option and a transfer to provider B.
There were various options that Quilter needed to consider in deciding what was most 
suitable for Mrs L. These included: 
- leaving her PP where it was, invested in the same or different funds. 
- moving to a stakeholder pension or other PP that mayve offered lower charges.
- moving to a SIPP. 
Quilters Suitability Report doesnt appear to give any consideration to Mrs L remaining 
where she was. The report stated that her current arrangement couldnt meet her investment 
requirements. But Ive seen no evidence that the report considered other potential 
investments in the existing arrangement. 
The Suitability Report stated that the charging structure in the recommended plan was 
identical to the PP held with provider A. But the report went on to explain that this was 
before the agreed charges for the recommendation had been deducted. These charges were 
an arrangement fee of £1,500 and an annual 1% charge for ongoing reviews, which were 
said to reduce the fund growth by a net 2.5% each year up to Mrs Ls retirement. I consider 
that this clearly showed that the recommended SIPP was considerably more expensive than 
the PP with provider A. Therefore Im of the view that the report wasnt accurate on this 
point.  
After our investigator issued his view, Quilter acknowledged that Mrs Ls SIPP with provider 
B was more expensive than her PP with provider A. But said that it wasnt possible to state 
with certainty whether a With Profits Fund would outperform an alternative fund over the 
longer term. 
Its impossible to disagree with Quilter on this point. But I consider that it was more likely 
than not, given the impact of Quilters charges on the net investment returns from their 
recommended fund, that it wouldnt have provided Mrs L with sufficient improved 
performance to make the switch worthwhile. 
The end of the Suitability Report contained a paragraph on stakeholder pensions. It said:
Stakeholder pensions are low cost personal pensions which must meet minimum standards 
laid down by the Government about charges, flexibility and the regular information you must 
be given. Stakeholder pensions have charges capped at 1.5% of the value of your pension 
fund each year for the first 10 years and 1% thereafter. If you choose to transfer into or out 
of a stakeholder pension, or you stop paying your contributions for a time, the provider will 
not charge you for doing so.But the report didnt consider the option of moving to a stakeholder pension. Instead, it 
stated the following:
I have recommended an Individual Personal Pension Plan rather than a Stakeholder 
Pension Plan because the new platform offers the investment flexibility and potential, by 
virtue of the internal and external investment fund options explained earlier, that is important 
to you and based on which I have recommended [fund name].
Fund switches are also available under [provider Bs SIPP] providing yet more flexibility so 
that as your fund grows, and as your outlook and so attitudes change, your portfolio can 
reflect your wants, needs and objectives by virtue of genuine investment diversification using 
a range of external fund managers. 
The report used the reasons above to explain why the adviser had felt that the stakeholder 
route wasnt an appropriate option to meet Mrs Ls objectives. But I dont agree that these 
were convincing reasons.  I say this because Mrs L had no immediate need for investment 
flexibility. So Im not persuaded that there was any need for Mrs L to move into a SIPP for 
the reasons the adviser gave here. 
Although the report stated that stakeholder pensions were low cost, there was no 
comparison to help Mrs L understand how much more expensive the recommended SIPP 
was than a stakeholder pension. Overall, Im not persuaded that the Suitability Report gave 
Mrs L enough information about the option of moving to a stakeholder plan. Instead, it 
focussed on the SIPP the adviser recommended. 
And theres no evidence in the report that research had been conducted on stakeholder 
alternatives. Instead, the report favours the SIPP option on the basis that Mrs L would then 
have further investment flexibility. And the opportunity to invest in the recommended fund. 
From what Ive noted earlier, she couldve invested in that fund with provider A. 
I acknowledge that Quilter have said that the SIPP gave Mrs L access to a wider range of 
funds than her existing pension. I agree that it did. But I also consider that the adviser had a 
responsibility to give Mrs L suitable advice. I dont agree that he shouldve recommended the 
switch to the SIPP simply because Mrs L may have wanted access to more funds at some 
point in the future, if her attitude to risk changed. 
I say this because the adviser only actually recommended that Mrs L invested in a single 
fund. This fund couldve been accessed through provider A, so there was clearly no need for 
the switch in respect of that investment. And the advice was given long before Mrs Ls 
retirement age. Im of the view that Mrs L had no need of the additional fund choices at the 
time of the advice. If shed decided she wanted to a wider range of investment options at a 
later date, she couldve arranged a switch at that point, when it wouldve been more likely 
shed have known what she needed.  
As there was no obvious benefit to Mrs L of the switch, Im not persuaded that it was worth 
the £1,500 initial charge. This amounted to almost 10% of the fund value. In order for the 
advice to be suitable, Quilter needed to justify their recommendation against other possible 
options. 
Quilter said that if Mrs L had responded to any of their advisers requests for annual reviews, 
he couldve advised her to switch away from the fund hed initially recommended in the SIPP 
with provider B. They provided this service with details of the fund factsheets the adviser had 
sent Mrs L in 2017. And noted that their adviser had ensured Mrs L was receiving regular 
newsletters from him. Quilter said that hed highlighted a suitable alternative fund for Mrs Ls 
consideration. And had given her ample opportunity to contact him to review her pension. They felt their adviser had provided Mrs L with suitable and appropriate initial advice and 
ample opportunities for ongoing servicing.
Ive thought carefully about Quilters points. While I acknowledge that their adviser took 
reasonable steps to keep in touch with Mrs L, Im still of the view that the initial advice was 
unsuitable. I say this because I dont consider that the reasons given for switching were 
sound. From what Ive seen, there was no reasonable potential to be better off under the 
new arrangement, given the initial charge and the higher ongoing charges, and the fact that 
Mrs L was a conservative investor. As such, Mrs L would need to have a greater potential for 
gain - without taking more investment risk - than a consumer with a high attitude to risk.
Quilter shouldve provided Mrs L with enough information for her to be able to understand 
and decide whether to accept their recommendation. But, from what Ive seen, they didnt 
provide her with a proper comparison of her existing arrangement and their 
recommendation. They recommended that the switch was suitable on the basis that Mrs L 
would have access to more funds, but Ive seen no evidence that she needed those. Overall, 
Im not persuaded that the recommendation to transfer to a SIPP was in Mrs Ls best 
interests. Im of the view that the advice to transfer Mrs Ls existing PP to a SIPP with 
provider B was unsuitable. And I uphold the complaint. 
I also consider that the unsuitable advice, and the impact it has had on Mrs Ls retirement 
planning, has caused her distress. Therefore I consider that Quilter should also pay Mrs L 
£300 compensation for the distress the unsuitable advice caused. here
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs L should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs L would have remained with her previous provider, however I cannot 
be certain that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. 
I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and 
given Mrs L's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Quilter do?
To compensate Mrs L fairly, Quilter must:
Compare the performance of Mrs L's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Quilter should add interest as set out below.
Quilter should pay into Mrs L's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Quilter is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs L's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mrs L wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs L's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mrs L is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mrs L would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Mrs L £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
As I understand that Mrs L paid the initial fees and ongoing charges through a 
deduction from her investment, the comparison above will automatically refund any 
fees if there is a loss. However, if Mrs L paid any adviser fees directly, these should 
be repaid together with simple interest at 8% a year, from the date the fees were 
paid to the date of settlement. If the above comparison shows that no compensation 
is payable, the difference between the actual value and the notional value can be 
offset against any such fees with interest. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs L how much has been taken off. Quilter should give Mrs L a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs L asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
interest
PP with 
provider ANo longer in 
forceNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mrs L's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Quilter should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Quilter will need to determine 
a fair value for Mrs L's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: average rate from 
fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value using 
the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of 
compensation.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs L wanted Capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mrs L's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs L into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs L would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs L could have obtained from 
investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Quilter Financial Services Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Quilter Financial Services Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mrs L in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman