DRN-3845703
The complaint
Mr S complains that MetLife Europe d.a.c. (MetLife) has unfairly refused to pay part of a 
claim he made on his insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S has an insurance policy that pays cash benefits in certain circumstances  mainly 
caused by accidents. In late 2021 he hurt his foot and a couple of weeks later went to A&E 
because of the pain and damage. Sadly, Mr S was diagnosed with peripheral artery disease 
(PAD) amongst other conditions, and had to have his leg amputated just below the knee. Mr 
S was in hospital until the middle of January 2022.
Mr S approached MetLife to make a claim  for the time he spent in hospital and also a cash 
payment for the loss of his leg.
MetLife agreed to pay him a daily allowance for his hospital stay - £2,800. But it said it 
wouldnt pay the rest of his claim because the accident hed had wasnt the sole reason why 
hed had to have the amputation  his underlying illness had caused the complications.
Mr S appealed this but MetLife didnt change its stance. So he asked this service to review 
his complaint.
Our investigator thought MetLife had been fair in its interpretation of the terms and 
conditions in the policy and that it need do no more than it has. Mr S doesnt think thats fair. 
Hes pointed out that PAD can develop following an injury, and that hed never been 
diagnosed with the illness. He says in these circumstances MetLife should pay his claim in 
full.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr S, but Im afraid I cant uphold this 
complaint. 
An insurer is required to fairly assess claims against the terms and conditions in the policy 
held by Mr S. So Ive looked carefully at these.
In summary, for a claim to be met, Mr S had to have an accident  and that accident had to 
be the sole cause of the problem being claimed for.
I dont think theres any argument about the fact that Mr S had an accident  he hit his foot 
on something hard a couple of weeks before he went to A&E.
The question remaining is whether Mr S can show theres a direct link between the accident 
and the amputation he had to have. Furthermore he needs to show the accident was the 
only cause of the damage.
Ive looked at the medical records provided by the hospital Mr S went to, and the follow up 
paperwork from some months after his operation. The hospital record from the time says he 
was diagnosed with PAD (and other circulatory conditions) after the damage to his foot was 
examined, and the amputation took place a few days later. The paperwork from the follow up 
clinic he attended says the amputation was because of the PAD. 
Mr S says, in summary, that its possible his PAD only developed because he accidentally 
hurt his foot, and that medical sources confirm this. He doesnt have an independent medical 
opinion to support this.
Im not medically qualified, but I can say which opinion I find more persuasive  and thats 
the reports from the hospital and follow up clinics, which do say that the amputation was 
because of the PAD.
I do appreciate that Mr S didnt know he had PAD, but I think his accident highlighted the 
illness rather than being the sole cause of his amputation. So I cant say MetLife interpreted 
the terms and conditions unfairly when it said it need not meet this part of the claim. MetLife 
has the part of the claim related to Mr Ss stay in hospital, as it should.
Taking everything into account I cant say MetLife should meet more of the claim than it has. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman