DRN-2184995
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Funding Circle Ltd has unfairly changed the way she is able to sell her
investments in her crowdfunding account. She also complains about the introduction of a 
new transfer payment.
What happened
Mrs L opened a loan-based crowdfunding account with Funding Circle in June 2016. 
Funding Circles platform allows investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in return
for interest payments. An investor agrees to lend a proportion of the total loan a borrower is
looking to borrow, and in return an investor receives interest on their loan part. At the time of
Mrs Ls complaint, Funding Circle provided an auto-sale tool on its platform. This provided a
way for investors to access their funds early by selling their loan parts to other investors by
way of a secondary market.
In June 2019 Mrs L decided she needed to access her funds held in her account, so she put
her loan parts up for sale on the secondary market. Mrs L raised a complaint with Funding 
Circle regarding changes it was introducing in December 2019, regarding selling loan parts 
to other investors. She was unhappy Funding Circle were replacing its queuing system with 
a selling tool, whereby investors requesting to access their funds early would join a pool and 
would be able to transfer loan parts on a rolling basis. 
Mrs L also raised concerns about a new transfer payment Funding Circle was introducing as 
part of the changes. This 1.25% transfer payment applied to the sale value of all loan parts
sold on the secondary market and acted as a discount to investors who bought the individual
loan parts. Mrs L said these changes would disadvantage her and other lenders in her 
position who were nearing the top of the queue. She also said that, if she didnt accept the 
changes, she would be denied access to the secondary market and be forced to hold her 
loans for their full terms.
Funding Circle didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. In summary it said:
The ability and time taken to sell loan parts on the secondary market is not, and has 
never been, guaranteed. While the secondary market provides an option for those 
investors who wish to access their funds early, it has always taken care to explain 
that the time to sell is dependent on demand from other investors.
Its terms and conditions state that sale requests that are not successful within 120 
days will be delisted from the secondary market. However, it paused this delisting 
process while it conducted its secondary market review.
It acknowledged that the sales queue had increased, and that the 1.25% transfer 
payment and new sales tool was introduced to help reduce it.
It clarified that the transfer payment isnt a fee that Funding Circle receives and 
instead is a payment made to the buyers of the loan parts.
Its not a mandatory payment and is only triggered if an investor decides to exit their 
investment before the maturity date of the loans. So Mrs L could access her funds 
whilst avoiding paying this transfer payment if she switched off her lending facility 
and withdrew her monthly repayments on her loan parts.
Its confident the changes were fair and in the best interests of the vast majority of 
investors. And the changes would provide an improved overall service, as investors 
selling loan parts would begin to receive some funds back faster and more regularly.
Its terms and conditions allow it to make general product and service changes 
without Mrs Ls consent, but these changes were communicated clearly with fair 
notice given.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ls complaint but didnt think Funding Circle had
done anything wrong. In short, she said:
When agreeing to lend money to a business or an individual through crowdfunding, 
an investor agrees and commits to lend this money for a set term. Funding Circle had 
put in place a secondary market to allow investors an opportunity to withdraw funds 
before this set term, but there is no regulatory requirement to have this facility 
available.
Funding Circles terms and conditions allow it to make amendments, such as 
introducing the new transfer payment, and it had given Mrs L enough notice of this.
Funding Circle introduced the transfer payment in order to adhere to the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (the FCA) regulations in ensuring the price offered for exiting a 
peer-to-peer agreement was fair and appropriate.
She said market conditions had become quite challenging as demand from buying 
investors had slumped. And queues to sell loan parts on the secondary market were 
getting longer. As a result of this, the perceived risk to potential buying investors 
wouldve also been increased as their ability to exit lending agreements early 
wouldve also been compromised or delayed.
The new 1.25% transfer payment is not a charge that Funding Circle receives  
instead it acts as a discount to potential buyers. So she was satisfied this was a price 
adjustment rather than a fee.
She was also satisfied the changes to the selling tool were introduced to help 
alleviate the queue and the cycling system meant that investors would have more 
frequent access to funds.
Although she sympathised with Mrs Ls situation, having neared the top of the queue 
when the changes were introduced, ultimately, there was no guarantee that Mrs L 
would have sold all her loan parts if the changes werent made.
She also said that Mrs L had the option to take the loan parts out of the sales queue 
if she didnt want to incur the transfer payment. 
Mrs L didnt accept our investigators opinion. In summary, she said:
Funding Circle benefits from the transfer payment as it discourages people from 
withdrawing money, ensuring it still gets paid a servicing fee and it attracts new 
investors.
She didnt agree that the transfer payment would have a positive effect on her and 
rather it penalises her for withdrawing her investments.
Her withdrawal request wouldve most likely have been completed by December had 
the changes not been implemented. 
And so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator. I understand this will 
come as a disappointment to Mrs L, but Ill explain my reasons why. 
Funding Circle sent Mrs L an email in October 2019 explaining it would be introducing the
new selling tool and transfer payment which would apply from 2 December 2019. The email
also explained that Funding Circle would be updating its terms and conditions to reflect this.
The new investor terms explained:
10.8 When a Loan Part is transferred to another Investor on the secondary market,
a Transfer Payment will be deducted from the proceeds of the sale of that Loan Part,
to the benefit of the purchasing Investor.
Funding Circle says it was able to make this change as there was the following term in its
previous investor terms:
16.1. We may make changes to these Investor Terms and Conditions from time to
time without your consent for any of the following reasons:
[...]
to make changes to the products or services we offer or provide to you, to
introduce new products or services or to withdraw products or services we
no longer offer;
This type of term is known as a variation clause and its common practice for financial
businesses to include these in its terms and conditions. Its not my role to determine if
Funding Circle were legally able to include a clause like this in its investor terms. That would
be something for a Court to decide. However, under the ombudsmans terms of reference
contained in section 228 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, I can look beyond
the strict terms and conditions to decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of the complaint.
I think its important to clarify that the transfer payment is a re-pricing instrument applied to 
loans which are sold on the secondary market and not a fee. I say this as Funding Circle has 
confirmed it doesnt receive any money from the transfer payment. Instead its paid directly 
to investors who purchase the individual loan parts on the secondary market. Acting as 
discount incentive to these buyers. In June 2019 the regulator, the FCA, published its policy 
statement on Loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms: 
Feedback to CP18/20 and final rules. In this, the FCA provided clarity around when and how 
often crowdfunding platforms should re-price loans. It implemented this by way of introducing 
new rules into COBS which came into force in December 2019.
COBS 18.12.16 R explains that:
Where a firm determines the price of a P2P agreement it must review the valuation 
of each P2P agreement in at least the following circumstances:
[]
(4) where the firm is facilitating an exit for a lender before the maturity date of 
the P2P agreement.
And COBS 18.12.17 R goes on to explain that:
Where a firm that determines the price of P2P agreements is facilitating an exit for a
lender before the maturity date of a P2P agreement, the firm must ensure that the
price offered for exiting the P2P agreement is fair and appropriate.
The FCA added that this is a non-exhaustive list as the frequency of re-pricing will dependon a platforms business model. It is therefore for each individual platform to determine in
light of its business model and the offer it is making to investors.
In Mrs Ls case, Funding Circle was facilitating an exit for her by way of selling her loan
parts on the secondary market prior to them maturing. So its clear that Funding Circle has a
regulatory requirement to ensure that the price for Mrs Ls loan parts are fair and
appropriate on the secondary market. Funding Circle has applied a blanket transfer payment 
of 1.25% to all loans which are sold by way of the secondary market. So in order to 
determine whether this is fair and appropriate, its important to understand what 
considerations Funding Circle made before introducing this.
Funding Circle has provided our service with information regarding its considerations,
including information which was shared with the FCA before making the changes. Funding
Circles considerations included:
The interests of all those who use their platform, including those looking to sell loan 
parts, those who may do so in the future, and the investors who buy the loan parts. 
The payments, discounts and fees applied by other crowdfunding platforms  the 
1.25% transfer payment aligns Funding Circle with other lending platforms in the 
market.
The impact of implementing a transfer payment and selling tool would have on both 
the buyer and seller of loan parts on the secondary market.
As well as these considerations, its apparent from both Mrs Ls complaint points and 
Funding Circles own admissions, that sales queues on the secondary market were 
increasing and it was taking much longer than anticipated for investors to sell their loan parts 
in this way. And the introduction of the transfer payment, along with the new selling tool, was 
clearly intended to combat these queues and to reduce the time investors, such as Mrs L, 
must wait in order to sell their loan parts on the secondary market.
Funding Circle has explained that these longer timeframes were due to several factors,
including increasing uncertainty at a macro-economic level - impacting both the amounts
being invested and the amounts being withdrawn on the platform. Also, that results
published to the market alongside growth forecasts in July 2019 prompted an increase in
loan parts sale requests. So although the risk profile of the loan parts hadnt changed, there
was clearly a shift in investors perceived risk. And this uncertainty in the market is an
important consideration for Funding Circle re-pricing Mrs Ls loan parts. I say this as
Funding Circle must ensure that the price offered for the loan parts are fair and appropriate
not only to Mrs L, but also to the investors who intend to purchase them from her. It follows
that if the loan parts are perceived to be riskier due to overall market conditions, then
Funding Circle must ensure the price offered reflects this. 
Whilst I appreciate Mrs L believes the transfer payment was introduced to benefit Funding 
Circle by way of attracting new investors to the platform and discouraging existing investors 
from leaving the platform, Im afraid I dont agree. Although Ive already set out above why I 
think Funding Circles actions were fair and reasonable in all the circumstances,  its also 
apparent that its not only new investors who join the platform who can benefit from the 
discount. Existing investors, such as Mrs L, can also purchase loan parts on the secondary 
market and, as a result, benefit from the discount.  
Its also important to consider Mrs L doesnt have to sell her loan parts on the secondary
market if she doesnt want to incur the transfer payment. As Funding Circle has explained, 
the transfer payment is only triggered if Mrs L decides to exit from her investment before the
maturity date of the loans. So she is able to avoid the transfer payment by cancelling any
requests to transfer loan parts; switching off the reinvestment option; keeping the loan partsuntil they mature and withdrawing her monthly repayments. I acknowledge that by not selling 
her loan parts, Funding Circle would continue to charge her for its servicing fee, but 
ultimately, Mrs L had agreed to lend money to borrowers for a set term and did so with the 
understanding that, if she was unable to sell on the secondary market, shed likely have to 
wait until the loans were fully repaid in order to access all of her investment, while continuing 
to pay the servicing fee. 
I understand Mrs L also has concerns around Funding Circle changing the process for 
selling after shed already been in the queue for some time. Funding Circles previous terms 
and conditions didnt detail how the secondary market would work. These explained that 
there was no guarantee if or when loan parts would sell and that it would be able to remove 
any unsold loan parts within 120 days after they had been put up for sale. Funding Circle 
has explained that, as a matter of practice, it chose not to delist loan parts after the 120-day 
period. Instead, it allowed unsold loan parts to remain in a transfer queue temporarily to give 
investors the best chance of being able to access their funds. This was all while Funding 
Circle considered and designed its new sale process. However, to appease investor concern 
about the lengthening secondary market queue, Funding Circle says it considered a number 
of options and decided to implement a selling tool whereby investors requesting to access 
their funds early will join a pool and will be able to transfer loan parts on a rolling basis. Each 
transfer request will last for 120 days after which investors will receive an email confirming 
the amounts recouped via transfers and repayments in that period.
I sympathise with Mrs Ls situation, and I agree it would be frustrating having to restart the
sales process, especially considering reports show she would likely have been able to sell 
her loan parts in a month or so. However, taking into account all of the above, Im not 
persuaded the changes were unfair. Its clear Funding Circle were able to delist all loan parts 
that had not reached the top of the sale queue within 120 days. It chose not to while it 
considered ways in which it could combat the growing sales queue and did so with investors 
best interests in mind. It has since decided to reintroduce the 120-day timeframe by way of 
the new selling tool process, which I think is fair and in-line with the terms and conditions 
Mrs L agreed to.
Overall, Im satisfied that it was fair for Funding Circle to re-price Mrs Ls loan parts on the
secondary market. It appropriately considered the impact this would have on Mrs L before
implementing the transfer payment and new selling tool. Im also satisfied Funding Circle
gave Mrs L reasonable notice, as well as the option to keep her investments without 
incurring the transfer payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ls complaint against Funding Circle Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021. 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman