DRN-4228928
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund the money she 
lost.
What happened
Mrs R is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mrs R throughout this decision. 
What Mrs R says
Mrs R says that she was separating from an abusive partner and was introduced to a man Ill 
call J through a friend. The friend said J was nice, but Mrs R shouldnt give him money. A 
relationship developed between Mrs R and J, and she says they messaged daily and met on 
average twice a week  although there were times when J disappeared and was 
unresponsive.
After a few months J started to ask Mrs R for money. He fabricated a story about owning a 
gym and a fallout with his business partner and asked for funds to get back on his feet. J 
also begged Mrs R for money to buy things for his children and for rent, car repairs and to 
buy a car (£10,000). 
Mrs Rs representative has listed over 150 transactions of £3 to £10,000 between May 2020 
to January 2022 amounting to £42,542.30 that Mrs R says were scam payments and should 
be returned. There were five payments of £1,000 or more (£2,000, £10,000, £10,000, 
£1,000, £6,000 and £1,000) but the majority of payments were for less than £300. Many 
transactions were for amounts like £25. J credited Mrs Rs account with £10,458 (including a 
£9,500 payment between the two £10,000 transactions) leaving an outstanding balance of 
£32,084.30. 
Mrs R says that she got J a fuel card, but he abused it and she had to cancel the card. She 
says this shows he was dishonest. J also took out phone contracts in Mrs Rs name that she 
was unaware of. 
Mrs R says she realised J was a fraudster when the reasons he asked for money became 
far-fetched. She contacted Nationwide to report what had happened on 16 November 2022. 
Mrs R also says that she has heard J took money from other women. 
Nationwides response
Nationwide said Mrs R had a civil dispute with J. It noted that J had transferred over £10,000 
into Mrs Rs account and that this behaviour didnt fit a common fraud trend. 
Mrs R was unhappy with Nationwides response and brought a complaint to this Service.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She was 
unable to say the high legal burden for fraud had been met and said Mrs R had a civil 
dispute with J. The investigator also didnt think Nationwide should have identified that Mrs R 
may be the victim of fraud and noted that Mrs Rs genuine banking details were used. 
Mrs R didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so the 
complaint has been passed to me. She asked for Js bank statements to be reviewed to 
establish whether funds were used for the reasons J claimed. Mrs R also noted that whether 
the police have prosecuted shouldnt be a determining factor given that the police prosecute 
in less than one per cent of fraud cases. The police also asked Mrs R to urge other victims to 
come forward, but she was unable to do so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
in other words on what I consider most likely (and not just as likely) to have happened based 
on the evidence available and the surrounding circumstances.
Did Nationwide deal with Mrs Rs claim appropriately?
Im sorry to hear that Mrs R has lost money in these circumstances and of the impact of this 
on her. Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a 
customer who is the victim of an APP scam (except in limited circumstances). But the CRM 
Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says:
This Code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid 
a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they 
are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
The CRM Code isnt a general protection for consumers and only applies in very specific 
circumstances  where the customer has been the victim of an APP (authorised push 
payment) scam. Under the CRM Code, an APP scam is defined as:
 a transfer of fundswhere 
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or 
(ii)The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent. 
So, the CRM Code only applies where a customer has been the victim of an APP scam - in 
other words a criminal fraud. In particular, the CRM Code doesnt apply unless it can 
reasonably be established that there was the intent to defraud the customer from the outset 
and that the high bar required for criminal fraud would likely be met. 
Applying the above to Mrs Rs case, Id need to be satisfied not just that J misled her, but 
that he faked a relationship and deliberately tricked her into making payments that he had no 
intention of returning. Im not persuaded I can say that is most likely what happened here 
and will explain why.
As the investigator has pointed out, the evidence here is limited as Mrs R hasnt been able to 
provide the messages she exchanged with J. In addition to Mrs Rs testimony, all I have 
been provided with is a mobile phone bill in Mrs Rs name for August 2021 which shows Mrs 
Rs home address, and that full payment was received by direct debit; an invoice from a fuel 
card company for £192.45 in October 2021 and a screenshot of a message I believe is from 
J threatening to end his life if Mrs R doesnt give him £1,000. Im not satisfied this evidence 
proves that J acted fraudulently. If the mobile contract was taken out without Mrs Rs 
consent, I question how a direct debit was set up and why a fraudster would use her genuine 
details. The fuel bill seems high, but I have no knowledge of the agreement that was 
reached between Mrs R and J when she gave the card to him. The message indicates J 
used threats but not criminal intent. Overall, the available evidence doesnt help me to 
assess Js motives at the time Mrs R made the payments. I also have no other evidence to support a conclusion that J acted fraudulently. There is no 
evidence of a police investigation taking place or the result of that investigation. Whilst I 
understand Mrs Rs point about the low level of prosecutions, I need to see some persuasive 
evidence of fraud to ask Nationwide to consider this case under the CRM Code. 
In most romance scam cases the fraudster uses excuses not to meet the victim while 
continuing to ask for funds. In this case Mrs R met J regularly and had a relationship with 
him. J also paid over £10,000 into Mrs Rs account. And the payments Mrs Rs 
representative has listed were spread over a period of over 18 months (but Mrs Rs 
statements show that shes paid J from early November 2019 and he had credited her 
account from then). These factors do not indicate that J acted fraudulently. 
I also dont know if some payments were for the benefit of Mrs R too because, for example, 
they related to joint expenses. 
It is inherently difficult for a bank or this Service to determine in isolation whether Mrs R was 
deceived into a false relationship which was only for the purposes of taking money from her 
or whether it was a genuine relationship that had broken down. I dont have the power to 
compel J to provide me with evidence, or to cross-examine him or have him cross-examined 
to try and establish his true intentions. Overall, Ive not seen sufficient evidence to establish 
that J fabricated the premise of the relationship in order to obtain money from Mrs R. In the 
circumstances, the CRM Code doesnt apply. 
Should Nationwide have done more to protect Mrs R from financial harm? 
There is no responsibility upon a bank to refund victims of civil disputes. But Mrs R has 
raised concerns that Nationwide did not do enough to protect her which has contributed to 
the overall loss that she has suffered. Shes said the payments she made were unusual and 
out of character so Nationwide should have done more to protect her. So, for completeness, 
Ive thought about whether Nationwide should have done more to protect Mrs R from 
financial harm. 
Nationwide didnt identify any of the payments Mrs R made as being suspicious at the time 
she was making them. Ive looked carefully at Mrs Rs account statements and consider the 
first £10,000 payment in October 2020 was unusual and out of character for Mrs R and 
Nationwide ought reasonably to have asked questions about it. But Im not persuaded that 
any intervention would have made a difference in the specific circumstances of this case.
Mrs Rs representative says Nationwide would have picked up that she was vulnerable, but 
Im not persuaded this would have been apparent. Nationwide might have asked what the 
payment was for and whether Mrs R had ever met J. Mrs R would have said that she was 
loaning the money to her partner to buy a car. As J was an existing payee Mrs R had made 
multiple modest payments to, I think this explanation would have seemed plausible to 
Nationwide so there wouldnt have been a suspicion that Mrs R was being taken advantage 
of. The second £10,000 transfer to J was made just after J had credited Mrs Rs account 
with £9,500. I dont consider this payment would have caused concern. 
I appreciate that Mrs R was in a vulnerable position when she met J. Nationwide wasnt 
aware of this vulnerability at the time so had no reason to provide additional support. I cant 
fairly compel Nationwide to do more when the relevant law, rules, codes and good practice 
do not say that it should.
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear about what has happened, I cant fairly ask Nationwide to 
reimburse Mrs R. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman