DRN-4107982
The complaint
Ms M complains about the service provided by American International Group UK Limited 
(AIG) after claiming under her tech pack insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that AIG provided poor customer service here. After Ms M made a 
claim under her policy, AIG provided her with two faulty replacement phones. Then 
on the third occasion, AIG sent Ms M the wrong model phone. The fourth (and final) 
replacement was sent to Ms Ms previous address in error. Finally, I understand 
Ms M was promised a phone call, but this didnt happen.
AIG accepts that Ms M was caused inconvenience by the above. It has apologised 
and paid her £150 compensation for this. Ms M makes the point that she had to pay 
£100 excess, and so she says shes effectively only received £50 compensation. She 
wants £500 compensation. 
Ms M was always required to pay the excess, so I havent taken this into account. 
I note that AIG sent replacement devices within a few days of being made aware of 
each problem, but AIG ought to have sent an appropriate replacement in the first 
place. On balance, I think £150 compensation was reasonable for the inconvenience 
Ms M was caused. 
Therefore, whilst I can understand Ms Ms frustration with AIGs handling of the matter, I 
think it has paid reasonable compensation here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied that American 
International Group UK Limited has paid appropriate compensation. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 July 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman
