DRN-1225845
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims management company. 
Although the policy was sold by another business the complaint was initially set up against 
Financial Insurance Company Limited ("FICL") as it was the underwriter of the policy and 
had accepted responsibility for these sorts of sales. So the adjudicator sent out her view with 
the complaint set up against FICL. However, FICL has now transferred its insurance 
business to AXA France IARD ("AXA"). Therefore, the complaint has now been set up 
against AXA.
So Ive only referred to AXA during the rest of this decision.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a hire purchase agreement that Mrs M took 
out in August 2000. It was sold in store. She paid £1.91 a month for the policy which covered 
her for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs M disagreed. 
Her representative said, on her behalf and in summary, that:
The PPI was added without her knowledge or consent.
She was self-employed. So to make a successful claim she'd have had to stop 
working permanently. This wasn't explained to her.
She doesn't remember being given any information about the PPI and no-one 
considered if it was suitable for her needs.
She had no need for the policy - Mrs M recalls she had some savings - and if she'd 
been told it was optional, and if it had been discussed with her, she wouldn't have 
taken it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA had to make Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before adding 
PPI. Mrs M says this didn't happen. As this happened so long ago,  I cant be sure exactly 
what happened, so I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.The credit card application form included a separate section headed Payment Protection 
Insurance Application" which included the instruction, only sign if you want cover". This was 
in capital letters directly above the signature box. Mrs M signed the box to indicate that she 
wanted it. I cant say what was discussed, if anything, at the time of the application, but I 
think the paperwork made it clear that PPI was optional and I think it wouldve been 
reasonable to expect Mrs M to check over the document she was signing. The section about 
PPI was relatively brief, so I think Mrs M wouldve still been able to do this even though the 
hire purchase agreement and PPI were taken out in a store. So, overall, I think AXA made 
Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it.
AXA didn't recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didn't have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs M about the PPI was not as clear as it should 
have been. But Mrs M was eligible for the policy. She told us she was self-employed when 
she took the PPI but the terms of the policy didn't make it more difficult for her to make a 
claim than if shed been an employee. So I dont think she wouldve made a different 
decision if these terms had been brought to her attention. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs 
Ms circumstances at the time it doesn't look like she was affected by any of the exclusions 
to, or limits on, the PPI cover. As she couldve benefited from everything the policy offered, I 
dont think having better information about these things wouldve affected her decision take 
out PPI. 
The cost of the policy was shown on the credit agreement as £1.91 each month. So I think 
Mrs M would have understood how much she would need to pay for it. 
Overall I don't think better information would have stopped Mrs M from buying the PPI, 
despite what she says now. And I dont think she's lost out because of anything that AXA 
might have done wrong.
 My final decision
 For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman