DRN-3674945
The complaint
Mr F complains that a used car he acquired with finance provided by Oodle Financial 
Services Limited was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr F got the car in January 2021 with a hire purchase agreement from Oodle. He says 
multiple issues and recurring engine managements lights (EMLs) appeared within a few 
months. He contacted the supplying dealership when the car broke down and the dealer 
suggested he bring the car back for a check. Mr F was unable to arrange for the car to be 
transported to the dealership  which was some distance away - and he feels the dealer 
didnt do much to help.
Mr F asked an acquaintance who worked at a garage (that Ill refer to as P) to take a look at 
the car. P ran diagnostic checks and carried out some repairs in April and May 2021 but 
problems persisted. The car broke down in June 2021 and had to be recovered to a third 
party garage (that Ill call C) where detailed checks revealed that repairs totalling over 
£5,000 were needed. Mr F complained to Oodle and an independent engineer was 
appointed to inspect the car the same month.
The expert found faults present but he didnt think they would have been there when Mr F 
got the car. Mr F thought the expert had failed to consider all the evidence and he asked 
Oodle to organise another inspection. Oodle said it would contact the expert but no 
additional expert evidence was obtained. And Oodle wrote to Mr F in August 2021 to say it 
wasnt liable for the repairs  given the experts findings. Mr F couldnt afford to pay for the 
repairs and he told Oodle he was struggling to meet the repayments - he had problems 
getting to work without the car. Oodle offered to make a goodwill contribution towards the 
cost but considered the estimate provided (which included new parts) was unreasonable. It 
suggested Mr F should obtain alternative quotes and also informed him about a process 
known as voluntary termination (VT).
Mr F was worried the car was unsafe. He thought it was wrong to repair it with used and felt 
he had no option except to VT the finance. Oodle took the car back and sold it for abut 
£7,000 leaving Mr F liable to pay over £6,700 - under the terms of the HPA. Mr F thinks 
thats unfair in the circumstances. He wants Oodle to acknowledge that it was liable for what 
went wrong with the car and waive the outstanding balance. 
One of our investigators considered the evidence. He thought it was likely the repairs Mr F 
paid P for in April and May 2021 were due to faults present at the point of supply. He 
recommended Oodle should refund the associated cost (£560) and pay £100 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience Mr F experienced as a result. The investigator wasnt 
persuaded that the faults identified by the expert in June 2021 were present at the outset - 
based on the distance travelled after supply and the experts conclusions. He thought Mr F 
had had fair use of the car and it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Oodle to do anything further.
Oodle accepted the investigators recommendations and agreed to make the refund and pay 
compensation. Mr F asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. He said (in summary) he 
had significant problems with the car within a few months and relatively little use  he wasnt 
able to take his family out in it for even a day. He thinks he was left with no choice except to 
VT  when he didnt want to, as he really liked the car - and it is unfair that Oodle expects 
him to pay nearly £7,000.
Having considered the available evidence, I was minded to uphold the complaint. I thought it 
was fair to give the parties the chance to see my provisional findings and make further 
submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. So, I issued a provisional 
decision on 26 July 2022. Ive set out below what I decided provisionally - and why. This 
forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr F brings his complaint to our service because Oodle supplied this car under a HPA. And 
Im satisfied that Oodle was obliged, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), to ensure 
(among other things) that the car was of satisfactory quality when Mr F got it.
What amounts to satisfactory quality will vary depending on individual circumstances. The 
quality of goods includes their general state and condition as well as other things like fitness 
for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability. And 
goods need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory.
In the case of a used car, its generally reasonable to take the age, cost and mileage at the 
point of supply into account. The car Mr F got here was around four years old, cost just over 
£9,000 and had around 70,000 miles on the clock. As such, I think a reasonable person 
would accept that it was likely to have some parts that were worn and would need replacing 
or repairing sooner or later  which is reflected in the lower price paid compared to the price 
of a brand new vehicle. But, Im satisfied Mr F had a reasonable expectation that the car 
would be fairly durable  taking its age, cost and mileage into account. 
Ive reviewed the evidence to see what went wrong with the car and when. I can see Mr F 
complained initially that a warning light for the parking assistant system came on when 
starting the car but went off again and the car had cut out with an EML illuminated. Ive seen 
an invoice, dated 2 April 2021, from P (at 73,287 miles) which says the wiring harness had 
failed and repairs were undertaken to fit camshaft sensor wiring that cost £285. P saw the 
car again in May (at 75,654 miles) in order to check an AdBlue warning on the dash and 
other fault codes. P found a Nox sensor fault stored but the AdBlue level and pump were 
OK. P reset the AdBlue level and the ECU and cleared the fault codes but the issue 
recurred. P inspected the wiring harness and found a poor connection to the ECU. The fault 
was cleared temporarily but P recommended that a new wiring harness was needed. P also 
investigated the parking assist problem and repaired wiring to the front left sensor which 
fixed this issue at a cost of £275.
The car broke down in June 2021 and it was recovered to a third party (VAT registered) 
garage (that Ill call C). Ive seen paperwork from C dated 10 June 2021. This says the 
AdBlue warning was illuminated although the tank level was full (which is perhaps not 
surprising as Mr F told Oodle he topped it up in May). C considered the engine wiring 
harness was in a state of disrepair with poor contacts and corrosion at ECU plugs. C noted 
this had been repaired previously and considered a further repair would be unsafe so a new harness was needed. C also found excessive pollution and said the car was unsafe, unfit for 
purpose and unroadworthy in its present state. C recommended repairs estimated to cost 
over £5,300 which included fitting a new ECU unit, wiring harness, Nox sensor and AdBlue 
tank and pump. 
Expert evidence
On 26 June 2021 the independent expert checked the car (at 76,245 miles). He thought the 
DPF filter was approaching the point where it needed cleaning and regenerating. I accept a 
DPF is subject to wear and usually lasts between 70,000 and 90,000 miles but Im not 
certain its that straightforward here. I say this because the expert went on to find a fault with 
the AdBlue system (as detailed below). Im not a mechanic but Im aware that the AdBlue 
system assists the DPF to clear carbon deposits and regenerate, reducing harmful 
emissions. I think the issue with the AdBlue was likely present for a while - Mr F told Oodle 
the relevant light kept illuminating even after he topped up the tank. And, if theres a problem 
with the AdBlue, it can mean the DPF has more to do which may, in turn, have a detrimental 
impact on the DPF itself. 
Im satisfied the expert found the AdBlue/UREA warning light was still illuminated when he 
inspected the car. He considered this is a common issue in this particular model of vehicle 
and is normally associated with the UREA sensor within the AdBlue tank being faulty. In this 
particular model of vehicle you cannot replace the sensor and it requires the AdBlue tank to 
be replaced.
I appreciate the expert went on to say the AbBlue issue probably developed after supply due 
to normal wear and tear and this would not be considered unusual in a car of this age and 
mileage. But, I find this conclusion seems inconsistent with his confirmation that this was a 
common issue for this particular model and it was due to a faulty sensor. I think that 
suggests the problem was not caused by routine wear and tear in a service item but resulted 
from a known manufacturing issue for this model  which would have been present when Mr 
F got the car.
I think this probably made the car less durable than it should have been and Im minded to 
find it was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. Even if Im wrong about that 
however, I think the expert failed to address other faults that were present at the relevant 
time such - as issues with the wiring harness. I can see the expert confirmed that he saw 
two invoices from different repairers but Im not certain which ones exactly. He said the 
paperwork detailed repairs to the electrical systems which include having the ECU checked, 
which appear to have found no fault. The invoices also stated that there was a loose wire 
within the fuse box, and there was a fault to the parking system which has been rectified 
none of which are related to the current issues. I think hes probably referring to Ps May 
invoice and Cs June report  as he couldnt have seen detailed repair estimate C provided 
which is dated after the inspection.
I find it difficult to see why the expert concluded that the third party garages found no fault 
with the electrical systems - when P and C both refer to significant electrical faults and 
recommend the wiring harness (and other parts) should be replaced. I accept the wiring 
harness can degrade with age but I consider it would have been reasonable for the expert to 
address this and, if he thought the problem was wear and tear related, he could have said 
so. I find the experts report is somewhat limited and inconsistent in parts. I think it would 
have been reasonable for Oodle to ask the expert to address this  given the evidence from 
P and C. 
It looks as if Mr F had concerns about the experts report as well. He told Oodle the expert 
said he was unable to see some documents properly and Mr F wanted the expert to comment further - on the paperwork from C specifically. Oodle indicated (in early August) 
that it would contact the expert. It looks as if there was some mis-communication around this 
time however and Oodle paid Mr F £50 for poor customer service. Ive seen nothing else 
from the expert - who doesnt appear to have been asked for any sort of supplementary 
report. I note our investigator asked Oodle to consider arranging a second inspection as well 
 in light of Cs evidence  but the car had already been sold at that point. 
Weighing up everything Ive seen, Im satisfied the car had a fault with the AdBlue system. 
On balance, Im minded to find its more likely than not this was due to a manufacturing issue 
- not wear and tear - and the defect was present (along with several others) when Mr F got 
the car. I dont think a reasonable person would expect to have to pay for such significant 
repairs so soon after supply - even in a used car of this age, price and mileage. And Im 
inclined to find this car wasnt sufficiently durable and it was of unsatisfactory quality when it 
was supplied.
Putting things right 
Im satisfied the car had already been repaired more than once due to faults that were 
present at the outset by June 2021. I think Mr F would probably have been entitled to reject 
the car at that point, albeit he would likely had accepted further repairs if Oodle had offered 
that remedy at the time.
The cars been sold now and further repairs arent possible. So, Im minded to find its fair 
and reasonable for Oodle to remove the outstanding balance and report the HPA as settled 
on Mr Fs credit file. And, if Oodle has recorded any adverse information Mr Fs credit file, I 
think that should be removed as well.
According to the sale invoice and the finance paperwork, no deposit was paid under the 
HPA. I can see Oodle has already agreed to refund £560 for diagnostic and repair costs 
incurred in April and May 2021 and I think thats fair.
Mr F says he was deprived of some use of the car - in that he would have used it more than 
he did if these issues hadnt been present. I cant be certain about that on the current 
evidence. I think its reasonable to look at the mileage covered during the time Mr F had the 
car  which as around 6,000 miles over six months  as the investigator said. But, Im 
satisfied Mr F also told Oodle he stopped using the car in or around July 2021. He said he 
stopped the insurance, declared it SORN and he had to hire a car for a family holiday (in the 
UK) in August 2021.
I can see there was 76,267 miles on the clock when the car was collected  which is only 
about 20 miles more than the mileage at the experts inspection in June. And, on balance, I 
think its likely Mr F stopped using the car in July 2021. Given hed been told by C that the 
car was unroadworthy, I think thats understandable. And Im minded to find it fair that Oodle 
should refund any monthly payments made from July 2021.
I think Mr F probably experienced some distress and inconvenience as a result of being 
supplied with this faulty car. I can see he was put to some time and trouble - taking it to 
various garages for investigations and repairs, for example. And it was probably worrying 
and stressful to find the car had faults present. It looks as if Oodle has paid Mr F £50 
compensation already and, taking everything into account, I think the additional £100 
compensation the investigator recommended sounds fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings above and let me have any further 
comments and/or new evidence by 16 August 2022. Mr F accepted my provisional 
conclusions. Oodle asked for more time and I extended the time for responses by one week, 
to 23 August 2022. Oodle hasnt made any further comments or provided new information - 
or asked for a further extension. 
I dont think its fair to expect Mr F to wait any longer for a decision in the circumstances and 
I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional conclusions. For the reasons Ive 
given, I remain of the view its more likely than not this car was insufficiently durable and of 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. And I find it is fair and reasonable for Oodle to 
take the steps set out to put things right. 
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint and require Oodle Financial Services Limited to:- 
1. clear the outstanding balance and report the HPA as settled on Mr Fs credit file; 
2. refund £560 for repairs and diagnostic reports Mr F paid for (as set out above) along 
with any monthly payments made from July 2021; 
3. pay interest on the above refunds at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement; 
4. pay Mr F £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and 
5. remove any adverse information recorded about the HPA from Mr Fs credit file.
If Oodle considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman