DRN-2937062
The complaint
Mr L complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation claim he 
made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L and his wife booked a holiday abroad in August 2019. They were due to travel between 
1 and 15 March 2020. Mr L took out a sole annual travel insurance policy on 29 February 
2020. He paid for his existing medical conditions to be covered.
However, on 28 February 2020, Mr Ls GP had advised him that he wasnt fit to travel. The 
GP stated that cases of Covid-19 had been found in the country Mr L was planning to travel 
to. Given Mr Ls existing medical conditions, the GP felt that Mr L shouldnt travel. So Mr L 
cancelled the trip and made a claim on his travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes turned down Mr Ls claim. It said the policy terms and conditions didnt cover 
the circumstances of the claim.
Mr L was unhappy with Great Lakes decision and so he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. He noted that at the time Mr 
Ls trip had been cancelled, thered been no advice against travelling by the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office. And he didnt think Mr L had suffered an exacerbation of his medical 
conditions which would be covered by the cancellation section of Mr Ls policy. He also 
noted that at the time Mr L had taken out the policy, hed already been advised against travel 
by his GP. He explained that the policy only covers unforeseen events. And at the time Mr L 
took out the contract, hed already known hed need to make a claim. So he thought itd been 
fair for Great Lakes to turn down Mr Ls claim.
Mr L disagreed. He said he had friends whose claims had been paid out. Hed spoken to the 
GP on 28 February 2020, but he hadnt received the GPs letter until 29 February 2020.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. I need to make it clear that this decision will 
only concern Great Lakes decision to turn down Mr Ls claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, I think it was fair for Great Lakes to turn 
down his claim. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ls policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether 
Great Lakes treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ls policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with Great Lakes. As Mr L didnt travel as planned, I think it was appropriate for 
Great Lakes to consider his claim under the Cancellation section of the policy. This provides 
cover for the following insured events:
Section 1 Cancellation
Cancellation applies for booked trips taking place within the period of cover that you are 
forced to cancel because of one of the following, which are beyond your control, and of 
which you were unaware at the time you booked your trip or purchased the cover 
(whichever is later). (Bold is my emphasis).
What is covered:
We will pay up to a maximum of £500 for Basic cover or £5,000 for Comprehensive cover
per insured person for your non-refundable deposits and amounts you have paid (or you are 
contracted to pay), for your travel and accommodation (including pre-paid excursions up to 
£300 for Basic cover and £350 for Comprehensive cover), and up to £350 (£175 for loss of 
deposit), Comprehensive cover only, for pre-paid kennel or cattery fees which you do not
use because of the following:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have arranged to
stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
b) you abandon your trip following a delay of more than 12 hours to the departure of your 
outward trip that is covered within Section 5 Travel Delay.
c) you or any person with whom you plan to travel being called for Jury Service or being
summoned as a witness in a Court of Law (other than in a professional or advisory capacity).
d) you being made redundant, provided you qualify for a redundancy payment under current
legislation applicable within your home country.
e) your presence is required by the Police because of accidental damage, burglary, flooding 
or fire which has affected your home, and has occurred within 48 hours before the start of 
your trip, when the damage is in excess of £1,500.
f) the Foreign and Commonwealth Office issue a directive advising against all, or all but 
essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood, or hurricane. 
Ive looked closely at the available evidence to decide whether it was fair for Great Lakes to 
conclude Mr Ls claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. Mr L provided us with a copy of a 
letter completed by his GP. This letter was dated 28 February 2020 and stated:
I can confirm that Mr L is unfit to travel 1st of March 2020 due to his cardiac condition and 
diabetes. Considering the presence of corona virus in (country) and Mr Ls co-morbidities, I 
feel that he and his wife should be allowed to cancel their holiday.
Mr L appears to have indicated to our investigator that he spoke to the GP on 28 February 
2020 to discuss whether hed be fit to travel. Although I appreciate he might not have 
received the GPs letter until the following day, I think hed have been aware from the 
discussion that the GP didnt think he ought to travel. And Ive also seen a copy of a letter Mr 
L sent to his travel agent dated 28 February 2020. This asked the travel agent to cancel the 
trip, as the GP had advised he wasnt fit to travel. Im satisfied then that Mr L was aware on 
28 February 2020 that his GP didnt think he should travel due to the risks Covid-19 
potentially presented to him.
However, Mr Ls policy certificate shows that he didnt take out his annual policy until 29 
February 2020. So at the point it appears Mr L took out his policy, he not only knew that he 
wouldnt be fit to travel, but in fact, hed already written to the travel agent to ask them to cancel the holiday. This means I dont think I can fairly find that Mr L was unaware of a 
reason hed need to cancel his trip at the time he entered into the insurance contract. 
Insurance is designed to protect policyholders against unforeseen and unexpected events. It 
isnt intended to cover events which have already happened or which a policyholder knows 
will happen. And as Ive outlined above, the available evidence suggests Mr L most likely 
knew hed need to make a claim when he took out the policy.
Id add too that the reason for cancellation  the risk of Mr L contracting Covid-19 given his 
existing conditions  isnt something the policy strictly covers. Mr L doesnt seem to have 
suffered an unforeseen illness or an acute exacerbation of any of his declared conditions. I 
can direct an insurer to depart from a strict interpretation of the contract terms if I feel their 
application produces an unfair result. But in this case, for the reasons Ive given, I dont find 
it would be fair or reasonable for me to do so.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr Ls position, Ive decided it was fair for Great Lakes to 
turn down his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman