DRN-3517287
The complaint
Mr W complains Integrated Financial Arrangements LTD, trading as Transact, (Transact) 
caused him loss by failures in its duties relating to a 2012 corporate action.
Mr Ws complaint was brought by his representative and Ive referred to Mr W when referring 
to things said or done by him or on his behalf by his representative.
What happened
Mr W held on Transacts platform non-voting shares in a fund Ill call X. Transact was 
registered as the legal owner of the shares which were held within his self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP).
X was a fund legally based in the Marshall Islands and investing in UK property.
In May 2012 the operator of X sent Transact a notice, saying it intended to restructure X 
by merging it into a new company. According to the notice, more and final details of this 
corporate action were expected in four weeks or so with it completing some months later. 
The notice said the redemption period for shares was being immediately extended to 
almost a year. Transact didnt pass on this notice to Mr W or his advisers.
Towards the end of August 2012 Transact was notified of the details of the restructure. 
There would be a merger and Mr Ws shares in X would be exchanged for bonds issued 
by the new company. Transact sent notice of this to the adviser it had on its records as 
being Mr Ws adviser. Transact did this in September 2012. The restructure completed 
later.
Mr W has said the bonds he received became virtually worthless.
In support of his complaint, Mr W has made a number of points including, in brief and in 
summary:
The May 2012 notice was news of a fundamental change to his investment and Transact 
shouldve passed this on to him.
Although his shares didnt give him a vote on the restructure, Marshall Islands law gave 
him a right to object to it and to receive instead a fair value for his shares. If Transact had 
done more earlier to inform him about the restructure and advise him of his options, he 
wouldve been able to exercise and enforce this right and avoid the loss that arose. What 
Transact sent lacked detail and failed to communicate properly the urgency.
In 2011 Transact added a new adviser account to its records but the party behind this 
request wasnt Mr Ws adviser firm or authorised to act for it. So Transact incorrectly 
amended its records. As a result, the email address on its file to which it sent notification 
of the August 2012 notice wasnt an email address for Mr Ws adviser. So Transact did 
not notify Mr Ws adviser. Mr W says Transacts use of a different reference number for 
the new adviser account and the use of the number 2 after the name of the adviser firm 
means this was a new adviser and not just a second account for an existing adviser. He 
also points out the form for the second account was signed by a director of Xs operator 
and the email address on it was one used by other firms on Transacts records. Mr W 
also says he had changed adviser firm so the notification shouldve been sent to that 
adviser or to him personally in any case.
The restructure left him with a riskier asset and he believes Transact ought to have 
assessed its appropriateness for him.
Our investigator considered Mr Ws complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. Our 
investigator thought, in summary and in brief:
Transact wasnt wrong to not pass on to Mr W the May 2012 notice and to wait instead, 
given that nothing had been finalised, details werent provided, timeframes werent given 
and more information was to follow.
Transacts terms didnt promise it would pass on details of corporate actions, and said it 
was for consumers and their advisers to monitor these. But Transact was right to decide 
to pass on to Mr W information it received in August 2012 with details of the restructure  
and it did this correctly and communicated its importance sufficiently.
Transact acted reasonably in using the email address it did to pass that information on. 
Adviser firms could have more than one account with Transact. The email address was 
given on a form signed by someone on the financial services register as carrying out a 
director function at Mr Ws adviser firm and that firm wouldve got it. It was reasonable for 
Transact to send it there rather than to Mr W direct or to a different adviser firm to which 
Mr W later transferred. Transact couldnt have known to send correspondence to a new 
adviser before receiving Mr Ws application to transfer to that adviser.
Transact wasnt wrong not to investigate Mr Ws options in 2012 or any legal implications 
of the 2012 corporate action.
The bonds resulting from the restructure werent a new holding Transact was accepting 
into a SIPP on its platform, but a change to an existing holding already held there. So 
Transact didnt have to assess the bonds for appropriateness and considerations specific 
to accepting investments into a SIPP didnt apply.
Earlier notification by Transact to Mr Ws adviser of the contents of the May 2012 notice 
is unlikely to have made a difference to his loss in any event. The redemption period had 
been extended and, as our investigator understood it, no redemption requests made at 
that time had taken place before the restructure happened. So it is unlikely Mr W 
couldve avoided becoming a bondholder.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators assessment and made a number of further points. 
Ive considered all he has sent us but, in brief summary, these included:
The nightmare was allowed to progress on Transacts watch. Changes made later to its 
procedures suggest it got things wrong at the time.
He had misgivings at the start about investing in X and did so only because it was a 
regulated fund and within the 20% property fund exposure hed agreed. He moved SIPP 
funds into cash in 2012 to protect it from the market. The funds were then reinvested 
against his instructions and into funds he knew nothing about. The result was a very 
large proportion of his SIPP being held in X or in investments run by parties running X 
and far from the low risk conservative portfolio originally constructed for him as a conservative unsophisticated investor. Transact and his IFA had no authority to act 
without his instruction. He lost trust in Transact and his IFA.
More investment into X and suspicious property related funds and bonds increased his 
concern and the conversion triggered his upmost concern and concerted actions, 
including complaining to his IFA, Transact and our service. If he had known of the 
conversion earlier this would have triggered these actions earlier  with a chance hed 
have been able to redeem funds or prevent them being converted into long dated bonds 
completely unsuitable for his forthcoming pension needs.
Transacts 2012 SIPP Annual Review gave him confidence his pension would be as 
expected on his planned retirement date in a few years. The notice of conversation was 
sent after the review. Had he known of the high-risk conversions that were planned, he 
wouldve challenged Transact to explain these investments were suitable for his 
conservative SIPP portfolio. Transact didnt send a SPP review the following year. Did it 
consider the investments unsuitable given his impending retirement date?
If he couldve extracted himself from this disastrous situation he wouldve and to suggest 
otherwise is derisory. He ordered the sale of all his holdings in X in November 2012, but 
this was not achieved. He complained in 2013. Theres no shortage of evidence, and he 
could give us more, of the strength of his efforts to extract his pension from this highly 
suspicious debacle. We have totally undervalued this and then dismissed and excused 
Transacts mistakes as having no material impact. 
Insufficient consideration has been given by us to the interests of investors and the wider 
picture of manipulation by self-interested parties and the direct linkages between the 
entities involved, including X and its operators, and certain individuals. There were clear 
conflicts of interest. There was no advice or information from the IFA, since, with 
hindsight, they had planned to manipulate his investments. 
Past decisions of this service and the outcome of legal actions support his case.
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions are the same as our investigators and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ive summarised my reasons, briefly, below.
Im considering here whether Transacts responsibilities in relation to particular events in 
2012 make it fair and reasonable for Transact to bear responsibility for damage Mr W has 
suffered from investment in X. The matters that fall within the scope of this complaint are 
solely related to the 2012 restructure. My conclusions do not speak to the issue of whether 
Mr W has been wronged more generally or to whether his characterisation of the wider 
picture or of the entities involved is accurate. 
Also Im not considering what Transact should or shouldnt have done, or known, at that 
earlier time when the investments in X were made or the adequacy of its due diligence in 
accepting X onto its platform in the first place.
With that in mind, Im not persuaded the specific findings from the court case mentioned by 
Mr W relating to SIPP operators accepting investments into SIPPs, apply here. Mr Ws complaint is not about Transact accepting a new investment into a SIPP on its platform but 
about the restructuring of an investment already held there.
Transact had to comply with the FCAs high level principles. So, amongst other things, in 
carrying out its roles it had to pay due regard to Mr Ws interests, treat him fairly, pay due 
regard to his information needs and give information to him in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading.
Transact was also bound by the regulators Conduct of Business Rules. The client's best 
interests rule, COBS 2.1.1R, says a firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client.
Ive considered these rules and principles carefully when thinking about Transacts actions.
The May 2012 notice  a Notice of pending corporate action  said a restructure was 
sought and that documentation on the specifics should be available for publication within 
the next four to six weeks and that a new company should be listed a few months after that.
I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Transact to wait for more details rather than 
forwarding on to Mr W the May 2012 notice or all or part of the information it contained. 
There was no detail about precisely what was going to take place, nor specific timings. 
I note that investors wouldnt have been able to redeem their holdings ahead of the action 
anyway, given the extended redemption period and what the notice said about general 
timescales. I accept the points Mr W makes about the efforts he made to extract himself 
from the investments, and how earlier notice might have prompted him to try this earlier. But 
in my view by the time of the May 2012 notice and its extension of the waiting period for 
redeeming shares, the chance for redeeming the shares and so avoiding the conversion  
insofar as that chance had actually existed prior to the May 2012 notice  existed no longer.
When in August 2012 Transact received details of exactly what would happen, it did decide 
to pass these on. Taking into account what Transacts terms said, and even though Mr W 
didnt have a right to vote on the restructure, I think Transact was right to decide to pass this 
on, bearing in mind its obligations.
Mr W doesnt agree Transact informed him, through his adviser, of the notice. But from what 
Ive seen I think Transact did pass on the details correctly using an email address for Mr Ws 
adviser. 
I say this having considered carefully all that has been said about email addresses and the 
adviser account added in 2011. In my view it was fair and reasonable for Transact to do 
what it did in September 2012 and forward details of the corporate action notice to the email 
address it used. Im not persuaded that as a result of this Mr Ws adviser at the time wasnt 
aware of the plans and points of action outlined in the August 2012 notice.
So I think by doing what it did, Transact did enough to communicate the August 2012 details 
to Mr Ws adviser. In my view it was reasonable for Transact to decide to communicate with 
Mr W about the August 2012 notice by communicating with the adviser he had registered on 
its system. 
I dont think Transact can be blamed for not informing Mr Ws new adviser (or his adviser at 
the new adviser firm) as it hadnt yet received the form for the new adviser firm. Id add that it 
isnt obvious to me that the outcome wouldve been different anyway had notice been sent 
instead to the new adviser firm.The notice was information about what would be a substantial change to Mr Ws investment. 
But I dont think Transact needed to do more than it did. It had no obligation to provide 
advice or recommend a particular course of action. It was for Mr W, and his adviser, to 
consider the implications, decide what to do and look into it further if needed.
So I dont think Transact ought to have investigated what further implications the proposed 
action might have in future for the investment or for Mr W as an investor. Nor do I think that 
Transact ought to have assessed the appropriateness of the bonds Mr W received or was to 
receive, bearing in mind this wasnt a new investment but an alteration to an existing one.
In saying this I note the notice about the restructure didnt outline or offer any way for Mr W 
to avoid having his shares exchanged for the bonds through the restructure, and he didnt 
have a vote on whether it went through. Other rights or legal options Mr W might have had in 
relation to the restructure, that arose from his status as a shareholder rather than from the 
restructure proposals themselves - for example as a result of the company law governing the 
fund in the territory in which it was legally based - were rights or options that it was for him or 
his adviser to explore and consider. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to expect 
Transact to have investigated, considered or advised Mr W about wider rights of that kind.
In saying this, I take into account that Transact, in handling correspondence relating to 
corporate actions, was administering Mr Ws investment and, as the registered legal owner 
of the shares, it was safeguarding Mr Ws investment by acting as custodian. So Transact 
had to keep Mr Ws investment safe. But I dont think this means it had to explore or advise 
him on how to get out of the investment if he wasnt happy with how it might change as a 
result of the changes being proposed in the corporate action.
So I dont think Transact did anything wrong in how it dealt with the notices it received  and 
I dont think it needed to do more than it did. It follows that I dont think any losses Mr W 
suffered on his investment were losses caused by failings by Transact in how it dealt with 
things at the time of the notices and the restructure.
Id add that if Mr W had been told of the restructure proposals by Transact earlier or in a 
different way, Im not persuaded the likely result wouldve been him either successfully 
redeeming his investment or, by enforcing rights arising in Marshall Islands law (or in some 
other way), securing in the UK courts an award by virtue of which he was likely to 
successfully recover a payment to reduce his losses. I say this bearing in mind what Ive said 
above about how Transact didnt need to investigate for Mr W or outline for him any such 
wider legal rights - and Ive taken account of all Mr W has sent us about other court actions.
Also I bear in mind Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr W or his adviser, upon becoming aware 
of the merger, raised any points about Mr W having lost rights by virtue of not having been 
able to dissent in the way Mr W has since described. What I have doesnt suggest that Mr W 
was aware of any such legal rights, insofar as they might have existed, until later. Im not 
persuaded that had Mr W had earlier notification of the proposals, by way of receipt of the 
May 2012 notice for example, the most likely result wouldve been Mr W successfully 
exercising such rights to recover funds from this investment. I say this without doubting the 
strength of Mr Ws efforts to recover the situation and what he has said about this.
Overall, I dont consider there was anything Transact was obliged to do in 2012 by virtue of 
which Mr W wouldve been able to avoid the forced conversion of his investment and the 
losses he says arose as a result of that conversion. 
So although, given what happened here and the losses he suffered, I am very sympathetic 
to Mr Ws position and his situation, I havent identified any basis for saying Transacts 
actions in connection with the 2012 restructure caused or ought to make it responsible for those losses.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given and in light of all Ive said above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman