DRN-4145499
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as D, is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC 
have administered its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) account, including how it was transferred 
by Barclays to its collections and recoveries department and wasnt returned by Barclays to 
a business-as-usual (BAU) status.
Ds complaint is brought to this service by its director, whom Ill refer to as Mr R.
What happened
D had a BBL with Barclays on which it had a payment deferral plan meaning that D would be 
required to resume making payments towards its BBL in January 2022. Mr R believed that 
payments for Ds BBL would be taken automatically by Barclays via direct debit when the 
payment deferral plan ended. So, he was surprised to discover in June 2022 that Ds BBL 
was in arrears - with the required payments from January 2022 having not been received by 
Barclays  and had been transferred by Barclays to their collections and recoveries 
department. Mr R wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint on Ds behalf. 
Barclays responded to Mr R in and acknowledged that they hadnt properly reinstated Ds 
direct debit to enable the payments from January 2022 onwards to be collected. Barclays 
apologised to D for this and made a payment of £200 to D as compensation for any trouble 
and inconvenience it may have incurred. 
However, Barclays felt it had been incumbent on D to have made the required BBL 
payments, regardless of whether the direct debit had been in place or not. And they restored 
online access to Ds BBL account on the condition that Mr R would contact Barclays 
collections team and arrange payment of Ds BBL arrears. Mr R wasnt satisfied with 
Barclays response, especially as online access to Ds BBL account was withdrawn again by 
Barclays several weeks later and also because Barclays hadnt moved Ds account from its 
collections team back to BAU. So, he referred Ds complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Barclays had acted 
unfairly regarding the arrears that had accrued on Ds BBL, including that Ds account 
remained with Barclays collections team. Mr R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Barclays have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Barclays have accepted that theyve made some errors here, including not reinstating Ds 
direct debit when it should have. And so, Ive considered whether Ds obligations as a BBL 
account holder  which include that D should be aware of the status of its BBL and whether 
the required payments are being made  should fairly be considered to have been negated 
or suspended because of the mistakes that Barclays have made. 
Upon consideration, I dont feel this is the case, given whats happened here. Instead, I feel 
that it was incumbent on D to have monitored the status of its BBL account and to have 
either recognised before the January payment was due that the direct debit hadnt been 
reinstated and that therefore no payments would be made to the BBL, or to have noticed 
after the January payment was due that the payment hadnt been made. And I feel that Ds 
responsibilities in this regard remained in place even in consideration of the fact that it was 
an error by Barclays which led to Ds direct debit not being reinstated correctly.
Barclays have been able to demonstrate to my satisfaction that they sent several letters to D 
advising that the payments required on the BBL hadnt been made. These letters were sent 
to the address which is listed on Companies House as being Ds registered address and its 
been confirmed by Mr R that D has received letters from Barclays sent to that address. But 
its also evident that Barclays sent other letters at the same time, to the same address, which 
stated that the direct debit for the payments was in place.
I can appreciate how this could have caused some confusion. But I feel that any confusion in 
this regard could and reasonably should have been resolved by D checking the status of its 
BBL account and whether the payments had in fact been made. However, Mr R has also 
explained to this service that D didnt receive any letters from Barclays at all until June 2022, 
at which time Mr R discovered that Ds BBL was in arrears. So, it seems clear that rather 
than being in any confusion, Mr R was simply unaware that the account was in arrears.
It's regrettable if D didnt receive the letters about the monthly repayments not being made 
and the arrears that were accruing. But Im satisfied that Barclays did send them  and 
addressed them correctly  and that therefore its through no fault of Barclays that D didnt 
receive them. And, in line with what Ive explained above, I feel it was Ds responsibility to 
have understood the status of its BBL, including whether payments were being made or not.  
Mr R has also said that the letter D received in June 2022 shows that no payments were 
required on the BBL until the following month. This is incorrect, and Im satisfied that it was 
made clear to D when the payment deferral plan was put in place that D would be required 
to resume making payments towards the BBL in January 2022. This could also have been 
confirmed by Mr R by asking Barclays about it directly or viewing Ds BBL account online.
Because D didnt make the required payments towards its BBL from January 2022 for 
several months and didnt contact Barclays about this, I dont feel it was unreasonable for 
Barclays to consider the BBL as being in arrears and to have transferred it to their 
collections and recoveries department.
Im aware that when Mr R became aware of the arrears on Ds BBL and contacted Barclays 
about it, he was unhappy that he could no longer access Ds BBL account online and wanted 
Barclays to return Ds account to their BAU department. 
But Ds BBL was several months in arrears at that time. And while Barclays did reinstate 
access to the BBL account online for Mr R, they did so on the condition that Mr R would 
either make a payment to clear the arrears that had accrued on the BBL or would contact Barclays collections team  which given the outstanding arrears Im satisfied it was fair for 
Ds BBL account to remain with  to arrange repayment of those arrears. 
But D didnt clear its BBL arrears and Mr R didnt contact Barclays collections team. And 
given these failures to act as required by D and Mr R, I dont feel it was unreasonable or 
unfair for Barclays to later return Ds BBL to where it had been previously in the collections 
and recoveries process, including once again withdrawing online access to the BBL. 
Ultimately, Ds BBL is in arrears. And as explained above, I feel that the responsibility for this 
remains with D in spite of any administrative errors that Barclays have made. And I therefore 
dont feel Barclays have acted unfairly towards D in how theyve managed Ds BBL 
regarding those arrears, including that Ds BBL was transferred to, and remains with, their 
collections department. And I also feel that Barclays have already issued a fair response to 
D  including the apology and the payment of £200 compensation  for not reinstating Ds 
direct debit as it should have.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr R was wanting, but it follows from all the above 
that I feel that Barclays have already issued a fair response to Ds complaint and that 
therefore I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action 
here. I trust that Mr R will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman