DRN-3260772
The complaint
Mr P complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very rejected his 
claim under S75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a faulty drone.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I am satisfied that the debtor-creditor-supplier chain is intact and so I have to consider if 
there was a breach of contract. That means I have to be satisfied that the drone was faulty at 
the point of sale or that it had an inherent fault. The drone as bought in July 2019 and Mr P 
says he identified it was faulty when using it for a second time in March 2021. He notified 
Shop Direct the following day and asked to be allowed to return it.  
Shop Direct noted the drone had been sold more than six months before the issue arose and 
asked for an independent report to confirm that the drone was faulty at the point of sale. It 
spoke to the supplier, or manufacturer which suggested a number of reasons as to why the 
drone might be faulty. Mr P said he had not been able to make more use of the drone due to 
Covid and for other personal reasons and so he didnt think it was fair to ask him to produce 
a report. He has subsequently told this service he has had the drone repaired.
The difficulty I have is that there is no evidence that the drone was faulty when Mr P bought 
it. Shop Direct suggested a number of possible causes for the fault, but that doesnt mean 
that it has accepted it was faulty when sold. Indeed, it has suggested that one possible 
cause may have been due to usage by Mr P. 
Mr P has also said that it is unfair that he is not being given some latitude in the time taken 
to complain due to the lockdown. However, I note that the drone was bought in July 2019 
and the first lockdown didnt begin until late March 2020. In other words, this was more than 
six months after the purchase date and the date had passed by which time the onus was on 
Mr P to demonstrate the drone was faulty. 
As such I dont consider the issue of delay beyond then is material to the complaint. I 
consider Shop Direct has acted reasonably in considering his claim. 
In summary, I cannot say what has caused the fault, nor can I say that that it was faulty 
when sold which means I am unable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman