DRN-3868034
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has unfairly declined his travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr M took out an annual travel insurance policy which was underwritten by Admiral. On the 
same day he took out the policy, he left the UK to travel abroad and at his destination his 
luggage was missing. It was located by the airline but when it was returned Mr M noted that 
there was damage to the luggage and items missing. He submitted a claim to Admiral.
Admiral declined the claim. It said that the policy only provides cover for trips that start and 
end at the policy holders home during the period of insurance. Admiral said that, as Mr M 
had purchased the insurance when he was at the airport waiting for his flight, his trip had 
already started prior to taking out the cover and so his claim wasnt covered.
Unhappy with this response, Mr M complained to Admiral and brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. She found 
that the policy didnt provide cover for trips that had already begun prior to taking out the 
cover and so she didnt think Admiral had done anything wrong.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
Mr M has said he realised when he was at the airport that he didnt have insurance and so 
went online to purchase the cover. Admiral has said that the policy doesnt cover trips that 
have already started at the time of taking out the policy. It has referred to the definition of a 
trip detailed in the policy wording which states:
A journey that begins and ends at your home during the period of insurance that is 
either within the UK where you have paid a fee to stay in pre-booked commercially-
operated accommodation (more than 25 miles away from your home for two or more 
consecutive nights), or outside the UK.
The policy also defines the term home as the UK address where you live permanently. 
There is also a section titled Eligibility and this states the following:
You have agreed to the following statement for all insured persons as a condition of 
your cover.
You are:
a permanent resident of the UK
registered with a Medical Practitioner in the UK
travelling from and returning to the UK (unless UK only trip)
unaware of any reason why the trip would be cancelled or cut short
not purchasing the cover after the trip has commenced.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Having looked at the policy terms I can see that in order for a trip to be eligible for cover it 
needs to have started during the period of insurance. And the trip wont be covered if the 
policy has been purchased after the trip has commenced. The definition of a trip requires the 
journey to begin at the policyholders home in the UK. I think that the policy terms are clear 
in stating when a trip starts and when cover will be provided.
Mr M said he left his UK address and stayed at a friends house a few days before going to 
the airport. As he had left his home prior to taking out the cover Im satisfied his trip had 
already commenced before he took out the policy and the decision by Admiral to refuse the 
claim is fair and reasonable.
Ive noted Mr M has provided an article from a comparison website that refers to when a 
travel insurance policy can be purchased. He believes this shows that you can buy 
insurance at the airport. Ive looked at the information he has provided, and I can see this 
says some insurers will allow you to buy insurance when you are at the airport  but it goes 
on to confirm that others will not provide cover if you have already left home, as is the case 
for this particular travel insurance policy. So, this doesnt change my outcome. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr Ms claim is covered under the policy terms 
and conditions, nor are there reasonable grounds upon which it would be fair for me to ask 
Admiral to accept this claim. Im therefore not persuaded that Admiral needs to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman