DRN-3958563
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains about the handling by Lloyds Bank PLC of its 
application for a business loan.
Dr C, the director of B, brings the complaint on Bs behalf.
A related enterprise, which I shall call A, also arranged a business loan with Lloyds at the 
same time and for a related purpose, and has raised the same complaint. Dr C is also the 
director of A. I have separately issued a decision on that complaint but, as the complaints 
relate to the same events and issues, I have considered them together.
What happened
In October 2020, Lloyds made an initial offer to A and B for two related business loans. The 
loans were to finance the acquisition of a property by B and the acquisition of a business 
operating at the property by A. The loans were to be secured on several different things, 
including the property being purchased.
In May 2021, Dr C signed four loan agreements with Lloyds, with each of A and B taking out 
both a fixed rate and variable rate loan.
Dr C expected the loans to go through and the acquisition to complete on 19 May 2021. 
However, there was a sequence of delays. I will not give the whole history of events, as this 
is well known to both sides, but in summary:
Before the bank could lend, it required certain documents to be exchanged between 
solicitors. This didnt happen until 20 May. At this point, Dr C made Lloyds aware that 
completion was required the same day as some activities were already underway to 
transfer the business (eg employee contracts had been transferred).
On 20 May, Lloyds then discovered that one of the loan agreements for B had not 
been received or had gone missing. It wasnt clear who had been at fault, but Lloyds 
had failed to detect the problem despite the forms being returned to Lloyds by Dr C 
on 11 May. Having identified the problem, Lloyds and Dr C responded quickly. Lloyds 
issued a new electronic form, which was signed and returned by Dr C on the same 
day.
There was also a problem with the planned CHAPS payments. Lloyds had previously 
informed Dr C that the payments on behalf of both A and B could go from As 
account, so she had submitted one CHAPS form to reflect this. However, late on 
20 May, Lloyds realised this wouldnt be possible, so it requested Dr C to issue two 
separate CHAPS instructions. This was completed quickly.
Also on the same day, Lloyds identified a couple of errors with the CHAPS forms 
submitted by Dr C. Although these were simple mistakes, Lloyds should have 
identified them earlier. By the time Dr C was able to provide amended forms, it was 
very late on 20 May.
The next day, a further problem arose as Lloyds CHAPS team could not reconcile 
one of the CHAPS instructions. This was a processing issue at Lloyds but, as it was 
a Friday, it caused the final processing of the forms to be delayed until the following 
Monday. The problem was then resolved, with the CHAPS payments finally going 
through on Tuesday 25 May.
Dr C complained. She explained the many problems experienced, cited the expensive fees 
A and B had paid for the poor service received, and set out the losses she believed A and B 
had suffered in consequence of the delays caused by Lloyds.
Lloyds apologised. It said that, due to an oversight, the issues surrounding the missing
loan paperwork and CHAPS payment requirements came to light very late in the process 
and caused delays. It paid each of A and B £250 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused.
Lloyds then considered A and Bs consequential loss claim. Due to Dr C having to chase for 
information about her complaint, Lloyds increased the compensation to A and B for the 
inconvenience caused to £500 each (£1,000 in total). However, it was not persuaded that its 
mistakes had caused A or B a consequential loss, so it did not increase this compensation 
further. Lloyds said that, although there was a target date for completion, there was never a 
formally agreed date; and it also noted that the overall delay was not unreasonably long.
Not content with this response, Dr C brought Bs complaint to our service. 
Our investigator asked Dr C for a summary of how A and B were impacted by Lloyds delays. 
Dr C said:
The cancellation of existing appointments in the week of the delay (19 to 25 May) 
cost the business approximately £8,000. In support of this amount, Dr C noted that, 
after 6 months, the business was generating income of over £2,000 per day. She 
explained that, as the practice is regulated, once the transfer date of ownership had 
been given, customers could not be seen by the previous owner, but equally could 
not be seen by the new owner until legal title had transferred. 
The business received less income than expected in the first few weeks following 
completion because the previous owner didnt wish to book customers given the 
delays and the heightened risk of further cancellation. For example, the monthly 
income from 25 May to 30 June was less than £8,000, compared with almost 
£23,000 between 25 August and 30 September. Dr C said she suffered this loss in 
income for almost two months, so approximately £30,000 in total.
Despite not owning the property and business until 25 May, A and B became 
responsible for some costs from 19 May (eg building insurance, employee insurance, 
utilities, etc). In addition, B lost a weeks rental income from tenants other than A.
In acquiring the business, A paid over £300,000 for goodwill, relating principally to 
retaining the businesss ongoing customer base. However, Dr C believes the 
reputation of the business suffered immensely from the long process to complete the 
transfer and by the delays at the end caused by Lloyds. She says that some 
customers left, and it took a long time to start building trust with customers again. 
In accordance with the signed loan agreements, the interest rates on A and Bs fixed 
rate loans were booked in telephone calls between Lloyds and Dr C on 21 May. However, Dr C believes the rates should have been updated on the day of 
completion. She says that A and B should be reimbursed for any additional cost of 
these loans compared with the rates available on 25 May.
A and B together paid Lloyds fees in excess of £9,000 for the loans. Dr C has 
suggested that compensation for the inconvenience suffered by A and B should be 
determined in light of this cost.
Our investigator looked into all these matters but concluded that, in his view, Lloyds had 
already done enough to compensate A and B for the impact of its errors. 
Dr C didnt agree with this view so asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I note that Dr C has also complained about Lloyds complaint-handling procedures. 
However, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and, in the circumstances of this 
complaint, isnt something I can consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have read carefully the full correspondence between A, B and Lloyds and considered 
all the evidence submitted, I have focussed my decision on the matters which I consider 
central to this complaint.
Although Lloyds provided Dr C with an indicative loan offer in October 2020 and the loan did 
not progress to the final stages until May 2021, seven months later, I have not seen 
evidence to suggest that Lloyds delayed this early part of the process. Lloyds has admitted 
and apologised for the delays it caused at the end of the process in May 2021, as set out 
above. The issue in dispute is the fair compensation due to A and B for the losses and 
inconvenience they incurred resulting from these delays.
Before considering each area of loss submitted by Dr C, I have first considered what 
commitment Lloyds made to a specific completion date, and whether Dr C and other parties 
involved in the transaction could reasonably have expected to rely on this.
First, I note that all the loans were subject to several preconditions set out clearly in the 
signed loan agreements. In each case, all of the stated preconditions were required to be 
satisfied before the bank would allow drawdown of that loan. Many of these conditions relied 
on the actions of other parties, eg Dr C or the solicitors. This would indicate to me that, while 
the bank might have been willing to aim for a target date, it would have been unlikely to 
commit to one at that stage.
Second, having looked through all the evidence submitted by both Dr C and Lloyds, I have 
seen nothing to indicate that a fixed drawdown date was agreed. I have not seen anything to 
suggest that at any point the bank committed to a particular date. There is mention between 
the banks solicitors and the solicitors acting for A and B of a target date of 19 May, but there 
is no formal commitment to that date. Therefore, while I can appreciate that Dr C had hoped 
and intended to complete the transaction on this date, it appears to me to have been shared 
between the parties as a focal date on which to aim, rather than as a guaranteed date on 
which any party could rely. 
Third, I note that the actual eventual delay between the target date of 19 May and the 
completion date of 25 May was not long  4 business days. While Lloyds was responsible for much of this delay, it is also clear that when problems were identified, they were addressed 
quickly. This is not to diminish the serious implications of the delay for Dr C, or the extent of 
the frustration she experienced due to Lloyds mistakes, but I believe these factors are 
relevant when considering the compensation due.
Having provided these general comments, I now consider each of the areas of loss 
submitted by Dr C. 
Lost business activity
Dr C has submitted that A lost income from being unable to trade in the week caused by the 
delay; and that A suffered substantially reduced income in the first couple of months 
following the transaction due to the previous owner not being able to book customers reliably 
and some customers going elsewhere. 
However, on the latter point, it is not clear the extent to which the reduced activity in the first 
couple of months was due to the delays around completion caused by Lloyds. Given the 
transfer of the business, and the inherent uncertainty as to when completion would happen, 
it is understandable that the previous owner would have booked a reduced number of 
customers around this time. So, in my view, much of the reduced activity is likely to have 
been irrespective of the delays caused by Lloyds. 
On the former point, given the reduced level of business activity around the time of the 
transfer (c.£8,000/month), the loss from missing four business days of trade would have 
been relatively small. Moreover, it is likely that the former owner will have reduced 
customers to a particular minimum in the period targeted for completion, making this loss 
even smaller.
I also note that some of the customers lost in the week of delay, or not booked in the first 
couple of months following the transfer, are likely to have been booked in subsequently 
instead. This would have caused a delay in income rather than a loss in income.
Unnecessary operational costs and foregone rent
I dont doubt that A and B might have become responsible for some costs prior to drawdown 
of the loans and completion of the transaction. However, I have seen no evidence to quantify 
these costs. Moreover, given the very short period of additional time in which these costs 
were incurred, I believe the burden to A and B is likely to have been small.
In the same way, I have seen no evidence to demonstrate that B could have rented the part 
of the property not leased to A from 19 May, so suffering a loss of rent for six days. And, 
again, given the limited time period, I believe any loss of rent is likely to have been small.
Goodwill payment
In acquiring the business, A paid the vendor a large amount as goodwill, principally to retain 
the businesss ongoing customer base. However, as a result of the transaction and the 
business coming under new ownership, it is likely that some customers will have left. The 
relevant question for me is the extent to which this was caused by Lloyds delays.
In my view, the main causes of customers leaving the business at this time would have been 
the transition to new ownership. Some customers may also have left due to reduced 
appointments being booked around this time because of the transfer. However, neither of 
these reasons were caused by Lloyds.Its also not clear how the overall customer base was affected. The large payment of 
goodwill was for the whole business, and it is impossible to say what proportion of that 
payment was lost due to additional customers leaving the business because of Lloyds 
delays around completion. In my view, and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I 
would expect this proportion to have been very small.
Wrong fixed rate
Dr C has submitted that, with regard to A and Bs fixed rate loans, the rate should have been 
re-set on the day of completion.
First, I note that it is not clear what effect any re-set might have had. While A and B might 
have been advantaged by lower rates, it is equally possible that new rates would have been 
higher. For this reason, it would be unreasonable to award compensation to A and B.
Second, however, I do not believe in the circumstances of this case that a re-set was 
required. A and Bs fixed loan agreements signed by Dr C both stated in the section on 
interest that the fixed rate will be confirmed to you prior to booking the loan. The indicative 
pricing report given by Lloyds to Dr C earlier in the process stated that the exact interest 
rate for your Fixed Rate Loan will be confirmed when your loan is booked.
These documents suggest that the point when the rate is fixed is when the loan is booked, 
not the point of completion. 
The documentation is also clear that the process of booking the loan would include a 
recorded telephone call in which the rate would be set out and confirmation to proceed 
given. These calls happened between Lloyds and Dr C on 21 May. At this point, completion 
was expected imminently. However, I have seen nothing in A or Bs loan documentation to 
suggest that the rate would be re-set in the event of a short delay.
For these reasons, I do not believe Lloyds did anything wrong in how it set the rates for A 
and Bs fixed rate loans, and therefore I do not believe any compensation is due to A and B 
in this regard.
Fees
A and B together paid Lloyds over £9,000 in arrangement and security fees for their loans. 
Dr C has suggested these fees are unfair in light of the process taking so long from start to 
finish and the delays caused by Lloyds around completion. 
However, having looked carefully at the information provided by Lloyds to A and B, I have 
seen that the level of these fees has been clearly set out. Dr C signed the loan agreements 
committing to pay these fees in early May 2021, shortly before completion. I also note that A 
and B have had the benefit of the loans, which were arranged by Lloyds, for which these 
fees were paid. 
For these reasons, while I acknowledge the delays around completion caused by Lloyds, 
which warrant some compensation, I believe that the fees charged for arranging the loans 
and necessary security are fair. 
Overall compensation
In addition to the specific claims of consequential loss set out above, I also note that A and B 
suffered inconvenience through Lloyds mistakes. Forms had to be resubmitted to Lloyds at 
short notice, and re-arrangements had to be made with solicitors and with the vendor. In light of this and all my findings above, in particular that I do not believe Lloyds gave any 
commitment to a completion date on which A or B could rely, and that in my view the 
consequential losses suffered by A and B will have been relatively small, I believe the 
£1,000 already paid to A and B (together) by Lloyds is fair.
Distress
Dr C has also highlighted the stress caused by Lloyds mistakes to both her and the vendor. 
However, the complainant in this case is B, which, as a company, cannot feel distress. 
Therefore, I am unable to make any award to Dr C for the distress caused.
I am aware that Dr C will be deeply disappointed with this decision. However, for the reasons 
set out, I believe Lloyds has acknowledged and apologised for its mistakes and I believe the 
compensation it has already paid to A and B is fair in all the circumstances of this case. 
Therefore, I do not require Lloyds to take any further action.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman