DRN-3975372
The complaint
Mr H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly closed his account and lodged a 
fraud marker against him.
What happened
Mr H was selling items through several online marketplaces and NatWest received a report 
from another bank that Mr Hs account had received funds (£1,500) that were the result of 
fraud. NatWest asked Mr H about the funds he received. He said hed sold some shoes after 
receiving a phone call from a man who arranged for the money to be sent to Mr Hs account.
 Mr H believed the shoes were to be sent to another country, but when he tried to contact the  
customer, they appeared to have disappeared. NatWest explained to Mr H about the risk of 
receiving funds that were from third parties and educated him about being used as a conduit 
for stolen funds.
Over the next few months, Mr Hs account was again used to receive funds (over £8,000) 
from various scams. The account activity showed those funds being utilised by Mr H, often 
with large outbound transfers to remove the money from the account shortly after receiving 
the scammed funds.
Mr H was again asked to explain some of these payments and told them he was selling car 
parts after his main business activity had slowed down due to covid.
NatWest decided to close Mr Hs accounts and gave him notice. They also lodged a marker 
against him with CIFAS  a fraud prevention organisation.
Mr H was unhappy with the closure of his accounts and complained to NatWest about the 
issue. Mr H provided details of various sales of items he claimed were linked to the incoming 
payments. NatWest didnt change their position and Mr H then brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was looked into by one of 
our investigators.
Both parties were asked for information about the complaint and Mr H explained that he was 
approached by a person who was interested in a business relationship to act as a 
middleman for the sale of some of his goods. Mr H described how he would sell items and 
receive funds that were directed by this person. Mr H also noted that he was undergoing 
various medical treatments.
NatWest provided details of Mr Hs accounts and the reports they received from other banks 
concerning the fraudulent payments. After considering the evidence, the investigator thought 
that NatWests actions were reasonable and didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. In their report 
they commented that:
There was little evidence of the sale of items claimed by Mr H.
The incoming payments had references on them linked to the fraud rather than the 
reason Mr H gave for receiving those funds.
The payments were utilised through use of the account debit card or bank transfers 
to other accounts.
The accounts that sent the funds didnt match the arrangement Mr H had described. 
There were no international payments supporting his assertion that he was selling 
some of his items to an international buyer.
NatWest met the required standards to lodge the CIFAS marker.
NatWest followed the terms of the account when they closed it.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of his 
complaint which has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two aspects to this complaint, the CIFAS marker and the account closure. Ill deal 
with them in turn.
CIFAS
As explained in some detail in the investigators report, before NatWest can lodge a marker 
with CIFAS, they have to satisfy certain standards. In summary this means that NatWest 
have to have reasonable grounds to believe a financial fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted and that the evidence is clear, rigorous and relevant.
Once they received information about the scams from the other banks, NatWest had 
reasonable grounds to believe a financial fraud had taken place.
In relation to the evidence they obtained, NatWest didnt refer Mr H to CIFAS for some time, 
even after hed received some of the fraudulent funds and spent them. On the first occasion 
they asked him about what had happened, and he explained about the sale of some shoes. 
NatWests records show they educated him concerning the use of his account as a money-
mule. This is where an account is used to facilitate the movement of fraudulent funds to 
frustrate recovery efforts by the authorities.
NatWest continued to receive reports about other fraudulent payments entering Mr Hs 
account. So, at this point, I think Mr H was aware of the dangers of the arrangements he was 
involved in because hed already been advised by NatWest about it. 
It would be difficult to meet the required standards if the incoming funds werent utilised, and 
thats because the account holder cant prevent a payment being sent to their account. But 
here, on several occasions, the funds were removed from the account soon after they were 
received, which is often a sign that the account owner (here Mr H) had more knowledge of 
the arrangement, as opposed to just selling items through an online marketplace. 
Theres little evidence of the version of events described by Mr H and theres some conflict 
between what he says was the arrangement and the nature of the incoming funds (which 
bore references related to the various different scams used to defraud the victims). It seems 
unlikely that he wouldnt notice that the senders of those funds werent involved in the purchase of his items for sale. Its also usual in such purchases to pass messages about the 
sale and delivery/collection of the items. If the sales were legitimate, I would have expected 
to see some evidence of them. 
Having reviewed the evidence and how NatWest approached the situation, I think it was 
reasonable for them to lodge the fraud marker against Mr H because they met the 
appropriate standards laid down by CIFAS.
Account closure
The terms of NatWests arrangement with Mr H enabled them to close the account without 
notice if they suspect it was being used for illegal purposes. Once NatWest collected 
evidence about the account use and lodged a marker with CIFAS, they also had sufficient 
evidence to close the account immediately. Im satisfied that NatWests actions were in line 
with the agreement they had with Mr H.
Overall, Im satisfied that NatWest took appropriate action concerning the way that the 
account was being used. Im satisfied that they met the CIFAS criteria to lodge the marker 
and the account closure was in line with the terms of the account. Whilst I was sorry to hear 
of Mr Hs health difficulties, I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman