DRN-2176535
The complaint
Mr D complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) sent him marketing material and 
shared his personal information with another business.
What happened
In 2014 Mr D opened a fixed rate ISA with YBS (trading as Barnsley Building Society). In late 
2019 he received some marketing material from YBS about pre-paid funeral plans, offered 
through a company Ill call G. The material explained YBS had partnered with G to offer its 
products. 
Mr D complained to YBS as he felt it had treated him unfairly in passing his personal 
information to a third-party company. He also felt hed been singled out because of his age, 
which caused him some offence. 
YBS investigated and didnt uphold the complaint - but it apologised for causing any offence 
or upset. It confirmed it hadnt sold any customers information to G and explained the 
purpose of the letter was to introduce and promote Gs services, as they had formed a 
partnership. YBS explained that Mr D had opted in to receive its marketing communications, 
but he could always opt out. 
Mr D didnt accept what YBS said and asked us for independent view. An investigator looked 
at the complaint but didnt think YBS had acted unfairly or unreasonably. She explained YBS 
hadnt passed on Mr Ds personal information, it was acting as an intermediary when 
sending out marketing material. She didnt find that YBS had singled Mr D out due to his 
age, as it had sent the same marketing information to all its customers regardless of age. 
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt think it was reasonable for YBS to send him 
information about the products and services of a third party, particularly as the business his 
account was with had since ceased to exist. He didnt think YBS had made it clear it would 
do this when he agreed to their marketing services.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of Mr Ds application, he opted into receiving its marketing material. YBS has 
provided the specific wording that appeared on its application form. This says;
We (being) Yorkshire Building Society, any trading name operated by Yorkshire Building 
Society or any of its subsidiary companies would occasionally like to keep you up to date 
with details of products and services supplied by us, our subsidiaries and carefully selected 
organisations. This may be by post, phone or email. By giving your details you are agreeing 
to receive this information. If there is a contact method you do NOT want Barnsley Building 
Society to use for this, please tick the relevant box.
It goes on to confirm; 
We will not sell your details to other companies but we may use marketing agents to act on 
our behalf.
Mr D received marketing mail from YBS, with Gs name also present, offering various funeral 
plans. This didnt come directly from G, so I dont think that YBS passed on Mr Ds personal 
information. YBS marketing statement (above) explained that by opting-in Mr D had given 
consent for YBS to send him details of products from its subsidiaries and carefully selected 
organisations. Gs products fall into this category, as YBS had partnered up with them to 
offer funeral plans. 
Mr D says that YBS should have been much clearer about what type of marketing material it 
might send him. Im not aware of anything that compels YBS to specify the exact type of 
marketing to its customers. Indeed, as products and partnerships change marketing 
products and services will change.  YBS statement italicised above is broad and could cover 
a range of different products and services. It wouldnt be practical for YBS to list every 
possible service it might contact him about and this would likely change over time anyway. 
Ive read everything thats been sent to our service and I can understand Mr Ds frustration. 
But based on the available evidence, I dont agree that YBS has done anything wrong. Its 
acted in-line with its marketing statement and Mr D opted in to receive this when he applied 
for his ISA. If Mr D no longer wants to receive such marketing, he can opt out at any time by 
contacting YBS. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and Im not instructing Yorkshire 
Building Society to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman