DRN-2617646
The complaint
Mr O complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) changed its mind after 
initially deciding that he was not at fault for a motor accident. 
What happened
Mr O had motor insurance with Admiral. He was involved in a collision with another vehicle. 
Initially Admiral accepted that the collision wasnt Mr Os fault, but after receiving dash cam 
footage from the other driver, Admiral decided that Mr O was at fault. 
Mr O complained to Admiral. He said the other driver was speeding and undertook another 
driver and then him on the left. Mr O said he remained in his lane. Admiral said the dash 
cam footage showed Mr O moving into the other drivers lane. Admiral said it didnt have 
evidence of the speed the other driver was doing, but he hadnt been prosecuted for 
dangerous driving. Admiral didnt uphold Mr Os complaint.
Mr O wasnt happy with Admirals response and complained to this service. He said the 
other driver was in breach of the Highway Code by undertaking, and the accident wouldnt 
have happened if he hadnt done this. Mr O said the dash cam footage showed the other 
driver attempting to undertake his car and in doing so colliding with him.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. She said Admiral was entitled to deal with 
the claim as it saw fit, so long as it did so fairly and reasonably. She said she thought 
Admiral had acted reasonably in the way it settled the claim, relying on the dash cam 
footage. She said decisions about who was responsible for an incident are best dealt with by 
a court rather than by this service.
Mr O was not happy with the investigators response, so his complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. Mr O says that when the time came to renew the policy, Admiral 
wanted to remove his no claim discount. Mr O wants Admiral to acknowledge that the 
accident was not his fault. He also wants compensation for his time and trouble and for 
Admiral to review its complaints handling process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen copies of Mr Os insurance policy documents.
The Guide to Your Admiral Cover says
We are entitled to:
conduct the defence or settlement of any claim on your behalf
admit negligence for any accident or claim on your behalf
I have seen Admirals records about the claim. There is a note of a phone call made to it by 
Mr O in which Mr O is noted as saying he couldnt categorically state he was in his lane but 
he knew the other driver clipped him. In a further call it is noted that Mr O admitted he was 
moving left but said the collision wouldnt have occurred if the other driver wasnt 
undertaking. The call handler in the second call has noted they told Mr O the dash cam 
footage shows him moving left. The call handler also says even if it was possible to establish 
some negligence by the other driver, the majority fault would still lie with Mr O.
I have watched the dash cam footage which Admiral says shows Mr O moving left and the 
other driver fully established in his lane and correctly proceeding. Mr O says it doesnt show 
him leaving his lane, and even if he did the collision wouldnt have happened if the other 
driver hadnt been undertaking. The dash cam footage is not particularly clear, but I dont 
think it was unreasonable of Admiral to interpret it in the way it did.
It isnt my role to establish who is at fault in the collision or to decide if the other driver was in 
breach of the Highway Code. Those are matters better settled by a court. My role is to 
decide whether Admiral acted fairly and reasonably and in accordance with Mr Os policy. 
Under the terms of Mr Os policy, Admiral is entitled to settle the claim on his behalf, and to 
admit negligence for any accident or claim on his behalf. This is what Admiral has done. I 
think it was fair and reasonable for Admiral to have done this taking into account all the 
available evidence, and based on its interpretation of the dash cam footage.
So I wont be asking Admiral to say that the accident was not Mr Os fault or to pay him any 
compensation. We look at individual complaints, and in its handling of Mr Os complaint I 
havent seen any reason why Admiral should change its complaints handling process.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman