DRN-1892106
 
The complaint
Ms R has complained about a number of loans she took out through a company called 
Ferratum UK Limited. Ms R says she was lent to irresponsibly and the loans caused her 
financial problems.
Background
We now know that Ms R took out 11 instalment loans from Ferratum between November 
2016 and February 2018. Ive enclosed a summary of Ms Rs first 7 loans, based on the 
information it provided to us. 
Loan Date Taken Out Date Repaid Type of Loan Amount
1 19/11/2016 29/11/2016 Payday £200
2 07/12/2016 12/12/2016 Payday £300
3 04/01/2017 19/01/2017 Payday £200
4 20/01/2017 02/02/2017 Payday £50
5 23/02/2017 01/03/2017 Payday £50
6 30/06/2017 12/07/2017 Payday £800
7 28/07/2017 25/08/2017 Payday £200
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld 
from the point of loan number 5 onwards. Ferratum didnt reply, so the complaint has come 
to me for an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Ms Rs complaint.
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Ms R could repay all the loans she was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought 
to have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the 
total repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Ferratum should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Ferratum was required to establish 
whether Ms R could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Ms R could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Ferratum told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend 
to Ms R. Ive thought about this and Ive also looked at the overall pattern of lending history 
with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Ferratum should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. Ive considered whether, at 
some point, Ferratum should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Bearing in mind what Ive said above about the length of the lending relationship, I think the 
checks which Ferratum most likely carried out for loan numbers 1  4 appear to have been 
proportionate. I think the levels of checks, together with the income and expenditure details 
provided by Ms R, would have made those particular loans appear affordable for her. 
However, I think from the point of loan 5 onwards in this case things would have looked 
different and therefore required a more thorough and responsible approach. For loan 5, for 
example, Ferratum ought to have been aware this was her fifth such loan in 3 months. 
Theres no evidence Ferratum altered its approach at the point of loan 5 to look more 
thoroughly at Ms Rs financial situation. I think if it had done this it would have shown she 
was having trouble managing her money and using on-line gambling sites very regularly. So 
I think it was irresponsible to lend to Ms R at the point of loan 5 onwards.
In addition to this, from the point of loan 7 onwards, there was an additional and clear pattern 
of repeated lending evident in my view. Loan 7 was her seventh such loan in 8 months. So 
there was an obvious dependency on high-interest, short-term lending evidenced by this. 
So Im also upholding Ms Rs complaint in respect of loans 7 - 11 as well. Ferratum 
repeatedly lent to Ms R in an unsustainable manner because:
 
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging her indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use, over an extended time period; and
the length of time over which Ms R borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Ms R paid on loans 5 - 11;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges on these from 
the date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 5 and 6 from Ms Rs credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 7 - 11 should be completely 
removed from Ms Rs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum must give Ms R a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I partly uphold Ms Rs complaint. Ferratum UK Limited should put 
things right for Ms R as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman