DRN-3845012
The complaint
Mr M complains about advice he received from Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited (L&G) when taking out a life level term assurance policy.
What happened
In 2003 Mr M spoke with a representative of L&G and took out a life level term assurance 
policy. 
In 2022 Mr M complained to L&G saying that he shouldve been sold a whole of life policy 
instead of a term policy. The term policy was coming to an end it was proving difficult to 
obtain another policy because of Mr Ms age.  
L&G looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. They said Mr M had met 
with an adviser who had recommended a whole of life policy, however he chose to take a 
level term policy instead because it was cheaper. Considering Mr Ms circumstances at the 
time they thought a level term policy was suitable. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service where one of our Investigators looked into things. 
They thought L&G had provided suitable advice and had given Mr M clear information about 
the policy. They said a letter from the adviser at the time showed that L&G had 
recommended a whole of life policy, which is what Mr M said he wanted, but that he declined 
this recommendation and chose a level term policy instead as it was cheaper.
Mr M disagreed saying he had been disadvantaged and not treated fairly by what happened. 
Our Investigator considered what Mr M had said but an agreement couldnt be reached so 
the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has provided quite a bit of information about the complaint and its clear to me how 
strongly he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr M that Ive read and considered 
everything that has been provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive summarised 
some things which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Mr Ms complaint is that he shouldve been sold a whole of life policy rather than a 19 year 
level term policy. At the time of the sale the adviser sent Mr M a recommendation letter after 
their meeting which recorded what was discussed. This letter (in part) says:
I have recommended a Whole of Life plan which will provide you with a lump sum when you 
die ... You declined my recommendation of a Whole of Life plan due to the high premiums 
and decided on a 19 year Term Assurance plan  
So looking at the information from the time of the sale Im happy that L&G did recommend a 
whole of life plan and that it was Mr M who didnt accept this and chose a cheaper option. 
When speaking to our Investigator Mr M said he chose the level term policy as it was 
cheaper, and he also knew that whole of life plans could be reviewed and the cost would 
increase.  
Mr M says that he feels let down badly by what happened. I can see why he feels this way at 
this time as it is now near impossible for him to obtain a new policy. However I must consider 
what happened at the time of the sale and having done so Im satisfied L&G did recommend 
a whole of life policy and that it was Mr M who chose not to take it. This isnt something I can 
fairly and reasonably hold L&G responsible for.
Ive also looked at the policy that was sold to see if it was suitable and having done so I think 
it was. Mr Ms priority is recorded as wanting to provide protection for his family in the event 
of his death. Mr M declined to have a full financial review and nor did he want a full life 
assurance shortfall analysis. So based on the available information and the type of review 
conducted I think the policy was suitable. Cover was provided for 19 years which was the 
maximum term under the policy because of Mr Ms age with a sum assured of £20,000 
which is what Mr M was looking for, and the premium was affordable 
I think the recommendation letter and policy documents make clear how the policy works. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied the policy sold to Mr M 
was suitable for his needs at the time. Also evidence from the time shows it was Mr Ms 
decision not to take the whole of life policy that L&G had recommended. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman