DRN-1639745
The complaint
Mr H complains that Virgin Money plc acted unfairly and unreasonably by moving his 
residential mortgage interest rate to the standard variable rate (SVR) while he had consent 
to let it out. Mr H also complains that Virgin didnt update his address, so he didnt receive 
letters from it about the change of interest rate. He wants compensation.
What happened
Mr H had a residential mortgage with Virgin and wanted to let it out so he could move closer 
to his place of work. In October 2018, Virgin gave consent to let which expired in November 
2019. In the meantime, Mr Hs mortgage product ended on 1 August 2019. Mr H said that 
Virgin had told him that his interest rate would remain the same while the consent to let was 
in place, but he wouldnt be able to take out a new product; Mr H was unhappy that when his 
product ended, the mortgage moved onto the SVR and felt hed been misled. Mr H added 
that he didnt receive the letters telling him that the interest rate was going to increase as it 
didnt update his address.
Mr H complained to Virgin. It said Mr H had a residential mortgage and it had been made 
clear to him that if he got consent to let, he wouldnt be able to have a new product until he 
returned to live in the property. Virgin pointed out that the letter where Mr H was told his 
application had been accepted said "Please be aware that while Consent to Let is In place, 
you are not eligible to review your mortgage product when your current deal ends.", which 
made it clear when his product ended, no replacement would be possible.
Virgin added that it hadnt received notification of Mr Hs new address. It set out his 
interactions on its website and explained that because he hadnt added his mortgage to his 
online profile using the activation codes sent to Mr H over several months at his request, 
when he updated his online details about his address, it didnt update his correspondence 
address for his mortgage. Virgin said customers were told to add products to their profile in 
order to update their information but accepted for properties with consent to let, there was a 
gap in its process and offered £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. It added 
that Mr H hadnt told it a new correspondence address when he spoke to them on the phone 
or completed his consent to let application.
Mr H complained to us. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
She said Mr H had misunderstood the information given about interest rates and Virgin 
hadnt said the interest rate would stay on the product rate beyond 1 August 2019, and he 
had been told when the product would end. 
The investigator added that Mr H had received the acceptance letter for the consent to let 
application sent to his original address in October 2018 and it was clear that the interest rate 
would move onto the SVR when the product ended, so Mr H had already been notified of the 
change. She also said Virgin wasnt at fault for the address change as the mortgage hadnt 
been added to Mr Hs profile using an activation code, which was required, and Mr H 
couldve just contacted it direct.
The investigator thought Mr Hs changes to his online profile mayve meant he thought hed 
changed his correspondence address for his mortgage, but pointed out Mr H already knew 
that the interest would change to the SVR from the mortgage offer and hed said he received 
a reminder letter in April 2019. The investigator thought Virgins offer of £200 for the trouble 
and inconvenience caused by its online system was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances but said it shouldnt pay for the extra interest as Mr H ought to have been 
aware of the change of interest rate anyway.
Mr H disagreed. He said the words used by Virgin in the acceptance letter wasnt clear, and 
if hed understood the matter properly, he wouldnt have taken out the consent to let. Mr H 
denied knowing that he needed to link his mortgage to his online profile and pointed out 
Virgin had offered him compensation for this issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H took out a residential mortgage product due to end in August 2019, as he himself told 
this service. The terms and conditions of the product was that when it ended, the interest 
rate would change to the SVR unless a new product was taken out  this was set out clearly. 
Mr H accepted this when he took out the product and he was advised by a broker. Its fair 
and reasonable to expect consumers to note when the product ends, though its good 
practice to send a reminder (which Virgin did, but not to the address Mr H wanted).
Mr H is suggesting that the documents about the consent to let over-rides the legal 
agreement he accepted by taking out the mortgage product. Ive read the acceptance letter 
from Virgin telling Mr H that his application for consent to let had been successful. It doesnt 
say that his interest rate wont change  it says The interest rate currently being charged to 
your mortgage account will not change as a result of consent to let being granted. However, 
if our standard variable rate is applicable or you currently have one of our variable mortgage 
products, the interest rate will be subject to any standard interest rate change. 
This letter was saying that additional interest wouldnt be charged due to the consent to let. It 
added that if the mortgage moved onto the SVR (which it would if the product ended in the 
meantime), the interest rate change. I havent seen any evidence Mr H was told his interest 
rate wouldnt change when the product ended if a consent to let was in place. The 
information Ive set out above from the acceptance letter was also set out in the guidance 
notes for the application form, available online and from Virgin direct.
As Mr H accepts, the acceptance letter also does tell him that he cant have a new 
residential mortgage product while the consent to let is in place and he knew when the 
product was ending. I dont think Virgin misled Mr H or has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
changing the mortgage interest rate to the SVR or in accepting his application for consent to 
let.
Turning to the issue of the address, the evidence available to me shows Mr H did update his 
correspondence address using Virgins website, but only for his online profile, not his 
mortgage. The website said if a mortgage customer wanted to change their address, they 
had to print off and sign a document and send it to Virgin. But its online banking system also 
allows customers to change their address online if they added the product to their profile. To 
do so required the use of an activation code. Mr H didnt, from what Ive seen, add the 
mortgage to his profile so when he changed his address online, he didnt change it for his 
mortgage.Virgin accepts that Mr Hs experience has shown that theres a gap in its online systems, 
and mortgage customers mightnt see the warning about how to change their address. But 
the system does explain the product does need to be added to the profile to change the 
address and Mr H requested the activation codes more than once. It isnt clear why hed 
need them if it wasnt to add his mortgage to his profile  Mr H hasnt explained this. I think 
£200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by Mr H believing that changing his 
online profile would change his address for his mortgage correspondence is fair and 
reasonable, and takes account of all the information on the website.
But Mr H says if hed received the correspondence earlier, hed have taken action and paid 
less interest. Im not persuaded by his argument. Mr H knew that the product was due to end 
on 1 August 2019 from the offer he accepted. Ive already found that Virgin didnt give Mr H 
information to reasonably allow him to think the product interest rate would continue past 
1 August 2019. Virgin sent a reminder letter. Mr H asked for activation codes three times in 
2018, which werent used, suggesting either he didnt receive them (and shouldve checked 
the address to which they were sent) or chose not to use them, preventing the mortgage 
from being linked to his online profile.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Mr H whether to 
accept Virgin Money plcs offer of £200 compensation for the trouble and upset outlined in its 
final response letter. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman