DRN-3620038
The complaint
Miss B has complained about Soteria Insurance Limited. She isnt happy about the way it 
dealt with a claim under her home insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Soteria includes its agents.
What happened
Miss B has had an ongoing claim for a number of years with Soteria which has been drawn 
out and difficult. This is accepted by both sides and Miss B advanced another complaint 
about Soteria with this Service previously. The complaints stemmed from a claim in relation 
to an escape of water at her home address. 
Miss B raised a number of additional complaints with Soteria which it provided its final 
response letters (FRL) on but as Miss B remained unhappy she complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for her and explained that he could only look at the 
complaints that she raised and were dealt with by Soteria in its final response letters of 9 
April, 20 April, and 7 September 2021. He explained that this Service couldnt look at a 
number of issues in relation to -  her previous complaint that was considered by this Service 
separately; any new complaint points Soteria hasnt had the opportunity to consider; and any 
complaints that were brought to this Service after the six-month permitted time limit following 
Soterias other FRLs. 
After considering the complaint points our investigator could look into he concluded that 
Soteria acted fairly in responding to Miss Bs complaint in its FRL 9 April 2021. He thought 
its loss adjuster was reasonably briefed before visiting Miss Bs property and the managing 
adjuster tried to contact Miss B to advance and discuss the outcome of the visit in order to 
discuss any concerns following this.  
Plus, in response to a further complaint (FRL 20 April 2021) he thought Soteria acted 
reasonably in addressing Miss Bs complaint about a number of issues (including a further 
settlement offer of £1278.36 plus VAT, an additional £385.55 in relation to removal of 
asbestos which it was also willing to arrange removal of, issues in relation to the removal of 
a stored container at Miss Bs address and the disputed contents of the stored items). He 
made it clear he couldnt revisit the previous complaint raised with this Service and thought 
that Soterias response to the complaints raised was fair. And that its offer to allow a 
reasonable amount of time for Miss B to remove her contents from the storage container 
was also fair. Overall, he thought Soteria had acted fairly in offering Miss B what it would 
have paid itself to settle the claim now she was using her own contractors. And said it was 
only fair for Soteria to be allowed the opportunity to comment and review any further quotes 
Miss B gained in order to see if anything had been missed or if anything further should be 
paid now. 
In relation to the third FRL that our investigator could consider (7 September 2021) he 
thought Soteria had acted fairly. In relation to what Miss B believed was inflated costs 
attributed to the claim he was of the view that Soteria had explained why some of the 
costings were higher than Miss B expected and that it had looked to change the costs 
attributed to the claim following Miss Bs representations and it offered £125 compensation 
for any stress or inconvenience caused here. But ultimately he thought that Miss B would 
have to raise something formally with the police and raise a separate complaint about any 
specific allegations of fraud with the business. And he thought Soteria hadnt acted 
unreasonably when it requested some evidence and proof in relation to items Miss B had 
claimed for. He explained that it was normal for an insurer to gain supporting evidence like 
this when finalising claims. 
Plus, he thought Soteria had acted reasonably when it said it would consider any further 
evidence (such as photographic evidence) from Miss B if there were any further difficulties or 
required works that were attributed to the original claim if Miss B faced any further 
difficulties. And while he could understand why Miss B wanted her carpets replaced he didnt 
think Soterias offer to get the carpets professionally cleaned was unreasonable and 
suggested that if a professional clean didnt work for any reason then this could be revisited.
Our investigator acknowledged within his view to Miss B that she had raised a number of 
concerns and pieces of information that Soteria hadnt had chance to consider which it would 
need to be given the opportunity to do. So, he agreed to send this information on to Soteria 
for consideration which Miss B was free to complain about if she remained unhappy after its 
consideration. 
Miss B initially accepted our investigators view but continued to raise other concerns and 
information that hadnt been considered by Soteria, before saying that she wanted a final 
decision. So, the matter has been passed to me for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a fair degree of sympathy for the position Miss B has found herself in having to deal 
with this difficult and drawn out claim. Indeed, she still has concerns and complaint points 
that havent been answered to date. However, they cant be looked at here as Soteria hasnt 
had the opportunity to consider or comment on these and so they will have to be advanced 
separately. 
As Miss B accepted the investigators view and the position outlined I dont propose to go 
over the finer details here. And Ive spoken to Miss B and advised that her remaining issues 
will have to be advanced separately, predominantly in relation to what she feels is a 
fraudulent matter over costing of the claim by Soterias appointed representative (which she 
has now reported to the police) and the final percentage payment that she has been given 
for the items stored in Soterias unsuitable storage unit which caused damage to her 
property. 
Ive discussed our investigators view with Miss B on the phone which she predominantly 
accepts. I think the continued breakdown in trust and communication with Soteria has 
impacted on why Miss B wanted a final decision. I understand that Soteria hasnt engaged 
with Miss B and so Ive looked to get Miss Bs additional complaint points raised with Soteria 
separately in order to help ease any breakdown in communication problems.
However, I wish to reassure Miss B again that Ive read and taken into account all of the 
information provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. Ive not reflected on 
everything that has been said in this decision and it isnt because I didnt see it, its because 
Miss B, in the main, has accepted the position outlined by the investigator in relation to the complaint points that can be considered under this complaint. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy to either party. 
In relation to the complaints that have been considered following the FRLs of 9 April, 20 
April and 7 September 2021 I agree with the position taken by our investigator. I know the 
whole claim has been difficult and drawn out, but I think Soteria FRLs have covered the 
particular complaint points raised and it has dealt with these in a fair way. I agree that its 
offer of £125 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused seems fair (in addition 
to previous compensation awards made). And that Miss Bs continued unhappiness is, in the 
main, in relation to her continued frustration with the other complaint points that will now be 
advanced separately.
Given this, and the fact that Miss Bs additional complaint points that she remains unhappy 
with are being advanced separately, I think Soterias offer of £125 compensation for the 
stress and inconvenience caused in relation to the complaint points raised in the FRLs that 
Ive considered here seems fair. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Soteria Insurance Limited have acted 
fairly in responding to Miss Bs complaint and paying her £125 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 January 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman