DRN-2953235
The complaint
Mr M complains that Mutual Clothing and Supply Company Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
Mr M is represented by a third party.
What happened
Using information Mutual has supplied to us, here is a brief loan table of the approved loans.
Loan Approved Amount To repay Term (weeks) 
and rate 
(rounded)repaid
1 24 May 2014 £500 £700 51 x £13 18 March 2015
2 11 October
2014£700 £1,085 102 x £11 24 February 2016 
refinanced into loan 
5
3 14 March 2015 £1,000 £1,550 102 x £15 11 November
2017
4 19 September
2015£300 £420 51 x £8 7 December 2016
5 27 February
2016£1,000
some used to 
pay off loan 2£1,550 102 x £15 26 September
2018
Mutual responded to Mr Ms complaint by claiming that the first two loans were out of 
jurisdiction, and it did not uphold his complaint in relation to the other loans. Mr M referred it 
is Service.
Loans 1 and 2 have been decided as being out of this Services jurisdiction. This was before
the complaint was passed to me and I make no further point on that. However, loans 1 and 2
remain relevant in relation to the overall lending history.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought that Mutual should put things
right for Mr M in relation to loans 4 and 5. His view was that the overall pattern of borrowing
suggested Mr M had become persistently reliant on this form of borrowing. Mutual disagreed
and sent comprehensive submissions as to why.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision and those findings are set out in the main part of the decision but in italics to 
differentiate. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Loans 1 and 2 will not be considered by me as the decision on the jurisdiction of those loans 
has been made already. My decision will cover loans 3 to 5.
Mutual has had other decisions from this Service which detail our approach to complaints of 
this nature and what we think about the rules and regulations that surround the sale of this 
type of credit. So Mutual should be aware of our approach to these issues, and our general 
approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice  are on our website. So, I dont intend to go into detail 
about those here. But a brief summary is below.
Mutuals response to our adjudicators opinion was substantial. This included points and 
issues relating to Mutual as a business in the lending market, the citation of published 
documents, the role of home credit lending, Mutuals view on repeat lending, and the 
provision of graphs to compare its repayments with other high cost short term credit lenders. 
So, I have read all the submissions, but I have not addressed each one as this Service has 
addressed many of Mutuals points, comments and views raised in other final decisions.
Where Mutual has raised points relevant to Mr Ms circumstances or complaint I have 
referred to them as necessary.
Mutual needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But 
certain factors might point to the fact that Mutual should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
hat the lending was unsustainable. And the loan payments being affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make 
their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator 
defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
My provisional decision findings from 9 July 2021In relation to loans 3 to 5, we have very little evidence from Mr M about his financial situation
at the time. His representatives Claim Audit Form includes some explanations and income
and expenditure figures. But the facts and figures differ so much from what were declared on
the forms when applying for the Mutual loans that I would have liked some verification.
Additional financial information has been requested several times, but nothing has been sent
to us by Mr M or his representative.
Mutual has explained a great deal about its methods and approach to lending but has sent
little documentation and therefore little actual evidence about what took place when it
approved Mr Ms loans. So, my provisional decision is founded on limited information.
Received from Mutual are the application forms for loans 3 to 5 and its final response letter
to Mr M (FRL) and one screenshot of part of a credit search.
The Loan 3 application forms show a £300 weekly income declared by Mr M and
expenditure of £110. Loan 4 was the same. The Loan 5 application form shows he declared
a different type of employment. He said that his income was £370 a week and his
expenditure had altered from earlier applications to around £215 a week which included rent
and £35 for other credit commitments which was  at the time  the other three outstanding
Mutual loans.
The other document received from Mutual to defend the complaint was a screenshot of part
of a credit search Mutual says it carried out on 22 February 2016 for loan 5. Mutual
explained:
We are medium sized firm and in 2016 we did not have the capability to store credit
reports. I can see from our systems that a credit report was conducted on 22/02/2016
and a summary is stored. The customer had 1 other outstanding credit account with
a balance of £202 and was up to date with repayments. They were listed on the
voters role from February 2014 at their current address. There were no defaults or
county court judgements on the credit report.
I would have expected the full credit search report from Mutual for the record it does have,
and its disappointing that no other records have been retained. And this screen-shot
received is a partial file and does not give me the complete picture. As this is a provisional
decision, Mutual has time to send to us the complete record.
My provisional findings on current evidence
The evidence from both sides is poor. I am not satisfied that proportionate checks were
carried out by Mutual but I have very little to review from Mr M to see what Mutual may have
seen had those proportionate checks been carried out.
What I have read from Mr Ms representative about his financial situation at the time of the
lending with Mutual contradicts what he declared to Mutual so much that I will need some
additional evidence for me to decide.
My provisional decision on the current evidence is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint in
relation to loans 3 to 5.
For loan 3, the contemporaneous evidence, without more from Mr M, is that he earned £300
a week and his expenditure was around £110. Loan 1 was paid off by Mr M around the same
time and as it had been for a 51 week term then it looks as if that loan 1 was repaid a little
early. Loan 3 was for a lot more money  £1,000  and so I would have expected Mutual to
have checked that Mr M was able to afford it. But I have no additional information from eitherparty. And so, on current evidence I am planning to decide that its likely Mr M was able to
afford loan 3. Its repayments combined with the loan 2 repayments amounted to around £25
a week.
Loan 4 was applied for when Mr Ms loans 2 and 3 remained outstanding with Mutual. But
its for a smaller sum and for a lesser term and although I would have expected Mutual to be
questioning why, just 6 months after loan 3 had been approved Mr M needed more credit,
Ive no additional information from Mutual about whether it did more. It has said that credit
searches were carried out but Ive no evidence as to what it found.
And Mr Ms financial situation at the time may be as he has said in the Audit form, but as
I have explained earlier, those figures are so different to the declared sums at the time of the
loan applications, Id need more from Mr M to be able to decide that he was not able to
afford the loans. On current evidence I do not think there is evidence of unsustainability by
loan 4.
The Loan 5 application form shows that Mr M declared a different type of employment. Ive
outlined some of the details earlier in this provisional decision.
Mr M applied for (and was approved for) £1,000 at loan 5, of which he used £338.90 to 
repay an earlier loan (it appears to have been loan 2) and so he received cash in hand of
£661.10. By doing that his other credit commitments figure each week would have changed
to around £38 as he would have had loans 3 to 5 to repay.
For loan 5, I would have expected Mutual to have done more as it was his fifth loan after
almost 21 months and here I do have some additional information from Mutual about Mr Ms
situation at the time he approached it for loan 5.
The brief information from the credit search screen-shot I referred to earlier in this decision is
not satisfactory but, if the full credit report reveals the same, then my provisional decision is
that it seems Mr M had little other credit at the time. That, and as I have said earlier, without
more from Mr M about his financial situation, I have looked at the contemporaneous
information he supplied to Mutual at the time. His change of employment, increased salary,
even with his increased outgoings, and the evidence which shows he had little other credit at
the time, leads me to think  on current evidence - that Mr M could afford loan 5.
So, my provisional decision is that without more evidence, I think that Mr M was able to
afford these loans.
How each party responded 
Mr Ms representative wrote to say that Mr M understood that I was planning not to uphold 
his complaint. Nothing more was said or sent to me. Mutual has not responded.
In the circumstances, I see no reason to depart from the findings of the provisional decision 
that Ive outlined above and these are repeated here and are the reasoning behind my final 
decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman