DRN-3027500
The complaint
Mrs S complains that 3J Finance Limited wont release her from a fixed sum loan agreement 
which paid for an online educational course for her child.
What happened
In May 2019 Mrs S bought an online educational course for her child using credit provided 
by 3J. 3J says she took out a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement over five years to pay for this 
online educational course. The online course was provided by a different company.
In July 2019 Mrs S emailed the course provider to cancel the contract. 3J said shed missed 
the period in which she could cancel the contract, so she should continue to use the course 
and make the repayments. So she complained.
3J dealt with her complaint and feels it hasnt done anything wrong. So Mrs S brought her 
complaint to this service.
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mrs S complaint about 3J, so Mrs S remains unhappy. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything Mrs S has said about what happened here. I note she gives little 
description of the sales process she went through at the time she was sold this course both 
in her comments to this service but also in her representations to the business. But what she 
does say is she was aware at the time that she was entering a 60-month contract. I can 
also see that the sales process was over two separate meetings with the representative, 
which were nine days apart. Which allowed for Mrs S to consider the agreement she was 
making.
3J has said that Mrs S signed and initialled the paperwork, had the benefit of the finance 
agreement, was aware of the cancellation period and had discussed the matter with the 
representative at the time. 
3J didnt sell Mrs S the course, but it has some responsibilities to Mrs S due to certain 
protections afforded to consumers by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The loan Mrs S 
entered with 3J is regulated by this Act, and there are two sections of the Act which provide 
her with some protection namely section 56 and section 75. 
In summary section 56 has the effect of making the seller of the course the agent of 3J 
during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs S entering into the loan agreement, 
beginning with the first communication she received. In essence this means 3J can be held 
responsible for the things that were done or said during the sales process by another party 
(the representative Mrs S met). Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mrs S to hold 3J liable 
for breaches of contract by the course provider, or misrepresentations made in relation to the 
purchase of the course.
3J has pointed to a number of documents which were electronically signed including the 
credit agreement and also a document which Mrs S completed and signed by hand. 3J says 
these documents show that Mrs S knew what she was doing. It also points to a document 
which Mrs S completed prior to the first meeting to arrange that meeting. 3Js position is 
essentially is that the documentary evidence from the point of sale is decisive and is, in 
short, the end of the matter as Mrs S agreed to everything in those documents. It is my view 
that 3Js position here is somewhat simplistic and doesnt sufficiently consider how the 
representative behaved on those days, what they said or didnt say and how they framed the 
process to Mrs S. That said, this paperwork does carry some weight in my decision making.
And Im aware that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) wrote to credit brokers outlining 
some key risks for them to consider and act upon. The FCA said it had found firms brokering 
credit agreements with third party finance providers had poor oversight of staff, leaving sales 
practices unchecked and potentially increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor 
consumer outcomes. It highlighted in particular brokers which sell products in consumers 
homes as presenting a higher risk of consumer harm, especially where sales took place 
without appropriate oversight and on a commission-basis. The FCA did not name individual 
firms, but Im mindful of the fact that the sale here does, at least, fit some of the criteria the 
FCA identified as presenting a high risk of mis-selling.
Importantly I also need to consider that this service has seen a number of cases about the 
sales practices used to sell the course sold here (and related courses) which are provided by 
the course provider in this case. And there are some common themes in these sales which 
illustrate that these sales practices werent always as they should have been. However this 
doesnt mean every sale was unsafe. And this service has seen examples of such sales 
which were conducted in the manner 3J and the course provider suggest.
Ive considered what Mrs S has said about the sale itself and also thought very carefully 
about the nature of interactions Mrs S had with 3J. I can see in her initial attempt to cancel 
the agreement she emailed the business saying in July 2019 I want to cancel my contract 
with (the course provider) since my daughter doesnt like it. Just over a week later she 
emailed them again saying (her daughter) doesnt have any interest in (the course) now.
So it seems to me that she no longer wanted to use the course. But Mrs S has said she 
knew she was entering a 60-month contract at the point of sale. So it seems clear that she 
knew she was making a long-term commitment to the course and making repayments for 
that time. And I note it is sometime later when Mrs K starts making other comments about 
the sales process and particularly what shes seen on the internet about sales such as this.
Mrs S says she didnt know it was a loan until long after she entered the agreement. But I 
can see the paperwork she signed by hand and the agreement and other documents she 
signed electronically. And it is noteworthy that as this agreement was interest free and the 
repayments were consistent throughout the term. And that Mrs S accepts she agreed to 
make the repayments for a 60-month contract so in terms of monies to be paid by her over 
the term of the contract whether it was a loan, or some other contract doesnt make much of 
a difference to her obligation here from making repayments perspective.
It is also noteworthy that Mrs S makes very little comment about how the sales meetings 
went. There is no persuasive description of how the meetings unfolded, what the 
representative was like, or what she was told or the questions she asked. Having considered 
the entirety of what Mrs S has said to 3J and this service I note that she has not described 
what happened in any persuasive depth. And I can see that when she first contacted the business to cancel it was because her daughter didnt want to do the course anymore. There 
isnt any other considerations raised until later.
Mrs S argues that she wasnt aware of 3Js involvement until much later. But the Satisfaction 
Form she hand signed describes 3Js role in the matter. And although Mrs S calls into 
question the initialling of the document she hasnt disputed that she signed it. And although 
she feels she was dealing with the course provider only, this service cannot deal with 
complaints about that company. But for the reasons described I can deal with 3J and it does 
have responsibilities here also. 
Although I have considered all of Mrs Ss comments I do not think that they are sufficiently 
consistent or persuasive to override 3Js comments and submissions on the matter. I think 
the documentation from the sale over two meetings when considered in light of what Mrs S 
has said indicates to that there is insufficient reason here to uphold this complaint. 
I dont think Mrs S was materially misrepresented into entering an agreement shed 
otherwise not have entered. Nor am I persuaded that there has been a breach of contract 
here. Accordingly I do not see any persuasive reason to uphold this complaint against 3J.
I appreciate this isnt a decision Mrs S wishes to hear. However all things considered Im not 
persuaded that 3J did anything sufficiently wrong here to uphold this complaint against it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against 3J Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman