DRN-2656470
The complaint
Mr O complains that Lex Autolease Ltd, (trading as Volvo Car Leasing), has mishandled 
his claim that the car he leased wasn't of satisfactory condition.
What happened
In March 2017, Mr O entered in to a three-year lease for a new car. Unfortunately, in 
May 2018, the car's clutch failed, and it went in for repair. The repair was carried out 
under the warranty at no cost to Mr O.
In June 2019, Mr O complained to the dealership that had supplied the car that he was 
struggling to change gears. The car was taken in for repairs and the clutch plates and 
flywheel were found to be excessively worn. The dealership said there was no evidence of 
any manufacturing defect with the gearbox that would have resulted in the excessive 
wear. The dealership said that the damage to the clutch was the result of wear and tear 
caused by Mr O's driving style. Mr O paid for the repairs to the clutch.
Mr O was unhappy at being found liable to pay for the repair and complained to Lex 
Autolease. Lex Autolease didn't uphold his complaint. It said that the fault with the 
clutch was due to wear and tear and not a defect and that the video taken of the parts 
supported this. It said the parts had now been disposed of due to the passage of time.
Mr O disagreed with the view taken by Lex Autolease. He disputed that his driving style 
had caused the premature wear to the clutch and said he hadn't been able to get a 
second opinion about the damage found to the parts because they had been disposed 
of. He complained to this service. Mr O said he was a very experienced driver who had 
never had this issue arise before.
Our investigator didn't recommend Mr O's complaint should be upheld. He said that 
under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the onus was on Mr O to show that the problem 
with the clutch was due to a fault, rather than wear and tear as more than six months 
had passed since he'd acquired the car. He said there wasn't enough evidence to 
support that the car had either been faulty since Mr O had acquired it, or that there 
had been an issue with the first repair to the clutch. 
Mr O disagreed with our investigator's view and so the complaint was passed to me. I 
went on to issue two provisional decisions.
My first provisional decision was that I intended to uphold Mr Os complaint. This had 
been a new car when acquired by Mr O and despite a very low mileage had required 
two repairs to its clutch within two years. The first clutch repair had arisen just over a 
year after Mr O had acquired the car, but no job card had been produced to indicate 
why this repair had been required. It therefore appeared this repair had been, more 
likely than not, due to a fault and that the car wasnt reasonably durable. The second 
repair, having been required after only a further 5,000 miles had been driven, meant 
that it was more likely than not that the first repair hadnt been successful.  I didnt 
think the clutch would have damaged by Mr Os driving style when looking at the cars 
very low mileage. 
However, Lex Autolease disagreed with my first view and said it had now been able to 
provide the paperwork from the first repair to the clutch which showed there had been 
no inherent fault with the part. It also said that poor driving style could result in serious 
damage to the clutch and flywheel within a short period of time.
I looked again at the evidence and issued a second provisional decision along the 
following lines.
I had looked at the paperwork regarding the first fault that had arisen with the clutch and 
taken into account what Lex Autolease had said about the impact driving styles could 
have on the wear and tear of a clutch. And, although I appreciated this would be of 
disappointment to Mr O, I had changed my view.
Id seen that the first repair had been undertaken as a gesture of goodwill, and not as a 
repair under the cars warranty. When the clutch was inspected it was found that the 
clutch plates had disintegrated with no linings left on the clutch plate, and the flywheel 
had become excessively overheated. There was no evidence that this had been due to 
any manufacturing fault. At this time the car had travelled 5,200 miles and was around 
14 months old. The view was that the damage to the clutch was likely to be due to the 
driver not fully releasing the clutch pedal when changing gear causing the engine to rev, 
and the facings to become overheated which, in turn, can ruin the flywheel and pressure 
plate.
Lex Autolease said when the clutch had needed its first repair the dealership, in order to 
support Mr O, had approached the manufacturer to cover the cost and this was agreed. I 
accepted that this first repair wasnt due to any inherent fault with the car, and that the 
likely reason it had required replacing was due to the style of driving of Mr O.
Id seen that the second repair to the clutch was required after a very similar time interval 
to the first repair. Id also seen that the clutch was again found to have excessive wear, 
and that there was no evidence of any manufacturing fault with the part. So, I thought it 
was reasonable for me to conclude that the cause of the damage that had been found to 
the clutch was likely to be linked to driving style.
I appreciated that in my first provisional view I had thought it unlikely poor driving style 
could result in such premature wear of the clutch but, because of the additional evidence I 
accepted that I had been mistaken in that opinion. The evidence Id seen would indicate 
that it was more likely than not Mr Os driving style which was the cause of the failed 
clutch, and I hadnt seen any evidence that would indicate there was another cause.
I appreciate Mr O was concerned that, after the second repair, he wasnt able to get the 
clutch parts independently inspected as theyd been destroyed. Mr O disagreed with Lex 
Autoleases view that he had left it too late to have the part examined as he said he did 
raise it promptly with the dealership, but they didnt act on his concerns. However, 
although those parts were no longer available, I thought Mr O could have asked an 
independent engineer to look at the video that had been provided to see if they could 
give an opinion. And I didnt think I could reasonably say that Mr O, not being given the 
opportunity to have the parts inspected, meant I couldnnt give any weight to the findings 
recorded by the technicians during each of the clutch repairs.I appreciated Mr O hadnt experienced this type of problem with a cars clutch in the past, 
but I think Lex Autolease made a fair point that clutches could vary in their biting point 
even with the same model of car. This could mean that driving style, or driving position, 
could have more of an impact on one cars clutch than another.
So, for the reasons given above, I was satisfied that there wasnt an inherent fault with the 
clutch that had caused the need for the first repair, and there wasnt evidence that would 
indicate that the second fault had arisen from a failed repair. Due to the similarities in the 
damage found to the clutch on both occasions the most likely explanation was driving 
style/driver position.
I was sorry I had raised Mr Os expectation that the cost of the second repair would be 
met by Lex Autolease, but I no longer thought this would be fair. I was therefore no longer 
intending to uphold Mr Os complaint.
Lex Autolease says it agrees with my second view as I had taken on board its comments. 
However, Mr O says I havent mentioned that Lex Autolease was going to seek 
independent advice about his complaint from another dealership. He also says he was 
unhappy about how he was treated by Lex Autolease when discussing his complaint on 
the phone. 
In addition, Mr O has raised issues he says he has experienced with Lex Autolease over 
returning the car at the end of the agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Mr O has raised some new matters he says he has experienced with Lex 
Autolease over the return of the car and the renewal of an agreement. But Im not able to 
look at these as they are new issues. Mr O will need to make a complaint first to Lex 
Autolease if he would like them to be investigated. 
Mr O has also said that he was unhappy about the way he was treated in a phone call with 
an agent of Lex Autolease. However, its not in my remit to look at the way a complaint has 
been handled as this isnt a regulated activity. So, although I appreciate Mr O was upset by 
the way his complaint was handled on that occasion, I cant comment on that part of his 
complaint.
Mr O says he was told by Lex Autolease that it would consult with an independent dealership 
that supplied this make of car, but it then didnt do so. While I appreciate Mr O is 
disappointed further advice wasnt sought by Lex Autolease, I dont think it acted unfairly not 
doing so. I think the evidence as to the condition of the clutch each time it was repaired was 
clear. I also think the conclusion reached that the damage found wasnt due to an inherent 
fault, but excessive wear caused by driving style, was more likely than not correct. 
I also think its reasonable to give weight to the fact that the clutch was found to have 
sustained very similar damage each time it required repair. As I think this shows that its 
likely it was the same cause that led to the excessive wear of the clutch. And as I havent 
seen any evidence that the first clutch was faulty or that the first repair failed, Im satisfied 
that the need for the repairs arose from driving style. 
So, although I appreciate my decision will be of disappointment to Mr O I havent changed 
my mind. And for the reasons given Im not upholding Mr Os complaint. My final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman