DRN-3814671
The complaint
Ms S complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) wouldnt allow her to 
switch from a repayment mortgage to an interest only mortgage. Ms S says her arrears have 
continued to increase as a result. Ms S is also unhappy Halifax hasnt agreed to offer her a 
further advance for home improvements.
What happened
Due to personal circumstances, Ms S has been having difficulty meeting the contractual 
monthly payments (CMPs) on her repayment mortgage since 2018. Around the same time, 
Ms S asked Halifax to switch her to an interest only mortgage on a temporary basis in order 
to reduce her CMPs. Halifax considered this but said Ms S didnt meet its lending criteria at 
the time. 
Around November 2020, Ms S was referred to a specialist escalation team who help 
vulnerable customers. Ms S asked for an interest only mortgage again because moving to 
interest only would buy her time to start clearing her arrears and get back on track. And, if 
Halifax would also offer her a further advance, she could make essential repairs to her home 
which would allow her to get a lodger. Ms S said this would increase her monthly income 
and increase the value of the property. 
Ms S says she was led to believe her request was going to be accepted this time as the 
escalation team had the ability to authorise lending outside of Halifaxs usual criteria. With 
this reassurance, Ms S says she took a low paid job to start building her career back up, with 
the understanding she would earn enough to make the CMPs on an interest only mortgage. 
Ms S says Halifax then informed her she couldnt switch to interest only. Ms S says Halifax 
misled her, and shes ended up financially worse off as a result. For example, shes lost the 
benefits she had been receiving from the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) and 
now has additional outgoings such as council tax which she wouldnt otherwise have had to 
pay. 
Ms S also says she received some information from Halifax about changes the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) made to its policy on interest only mortgages. Ms S understands 
the changes, to do with repayment vehicles, took place around the time she first asked for 
an interest only mortgage. Ms S believes, based on those changes, she should have been 
eligible for an interest only mortgage because she has a personal pension and life insurance 
policies that would have qualified her. Ms S says the arrears on her account wouldnt have 
increased so significantly over the last few years if Halifax had factored this in and allowed 
her to have an interest only mortgage temporarily.
Ms S says the situation has caused her significant stress as she is worried about her home 
being repossessed, particularly considering her personal circumstances which mean moving 
home would be especially difficult for her. To resolve matters, Ms S says she would like 
Halifax to amend her mortgage to interest only, amend her credit file to reflect that she has 
been making part-payments towards her CMPs, and grant her an additional loan for 
essential home repairs. 
Halifax looked into Ms Ss concerns and issued a final response in June 2021. It said it had 
already explained to Ms S when she complained in 2018 that it was unable to give her an 
interest only mortgage at the time she originally asked for one. That, in 2017, the FCA didnt 
permit it to change a fixed rate to an interest only when it would be more expensive to do so 
and if Halifax had agreed the change, Ms Ss CMPs would have increased significantly at 
the time. 
In addition, Halifax said Ms S was already in arrears and contributions to her payments were 
being made by the DWP at the time. It explained that while updated FCA guidance meant it 
would be possible to get an interest only mortgage if a suitable repayment vehicle was in 
place, this still needs to be assessed on individual circumstances and Ms S would have 
needed to settle her arrears before it could offer her an interest only mortgage. 
Halifax went on to say that it empathised with Ms Ss situation, but its obligated to accurately 
report the status of Ms Ss account to credit reference agencies. While Ms S is making part-
payments, in terms of her credit file, unless her CMP is met in full this will be displayed as a 
missed payment. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Ss complaint, but they didnt think Halifax had done anything 
wrong. As Ms S disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Ms Ss complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain why.
I want to start by acknowledging that Ms S has provided some quite personal information 
about the circumstances surrounding her complaint. I want to assure Ms S that Ive 
considered everything shes said, but I will avoid going into detail as far as possible in this 
decision. I say this because final decisions are published, and the level of detail Ms S has 
provided could reduce her anonymity. 
Ms S wants her repayment mortgage to be converted to interest only for a temporary period 
of time while she secures a better paid role and increases her monthly income. Ms S feels, if 
her CMPs were more affordable, shed be able to start paying off her arrears and bring her 
account up to date over time. I can see why Ms S feels this is the most appropriate way to resolve her situation, but Halifax 
has explained it doesnt offer temporary conversions to interest only for financial difficulties in 
general. And in my experience, this is the approach most lenders would take. Thats 
because while the CMPs might be lower for a period of time, when the mortgage becomes 
repayment again, the CMPs would increase making them more expensive than they were 
prior to the financial difficulty. In most cases this would put the customer in a worse financial 
position in the long term.
Ive looked at Halifaxs lending criteria for interest only mortgages and Im satisfied Halifax 
has applied its policy correctly. Based on what Ive seen, Ms S didnt and still doesnt meet 
Halifaxs basic lending criteria. But the lending criteria does allow for some cases to be 
considered as an exception, and Im pleased to see Ms S was referred to the escalation 
team, who could be more flexible if appropriate, prior to any decision being made. That said, 
after further review, the escalation team decided it couldnt agree to the interest only 
mortgage Ms S wanted. 
The escalation team thought it wouldnt be in Ms Ss best interests for it to agree to an 
interest only mortgage. It seems there were a number of reasons for this, for example, 
Ms Ss pension wasnt a sufficient repayment vehicle considering the amount she owed both 
on her mortgage and in arrears. Also, Halifax found Ms S was only able to contribute around 
£550 per month to her CMPs at the time, but the interest only mortgage would have cost 
approximately £834 per month based on its calculations. That means Ms Ss arrears would 
have continued to increase even if she switched to interest only. In light of the 
circumstances, Halifax didnt think an interest only mortgage would be affordable or 
sustainable for Ms S. And Im satisfied Halifax gave fair consideration to Ms Ss request, so I 
wont be asking Halifax to reconsider its position.
Ms S has asked Halifax to clear her arrears on the basis she wouldnt have got into arrears if 
Halifax had approved an interest only mortgage when she first asked for one. I appreciate 
Ms S strongly feels this way, but as Ive said above, Halifax has explained why it couldnt 
approve Ms Ss request and I dont think it has done anything wrong. Ultimately, Ms S was 
obliged to make her CMPs and her reasons for being unable to make her CMPs were to do 
with external factors, not caused by Halifax. So, as much as I would like there to be a 
solution for Ms S, I would not expect Halifax to settle her arrears.
Following our investigators view, Ms S said the crux of her complaint is really that she had 
relied on what Halifax told her about the potential of getting put on interest only temporarily if 
she secured a job with a regular income. Ms S says this was why she got a job and stopped 
claiming DWP, which has put her in a worse position overall. Ive thought about this 
carefully, but I dont agree that Ms S secured a job solely because Halifax said it would 
consider her request for an interest only mortgage. Ive looked at a number of call records 
from around the time and I dont think Ms S was explicitly told she had been approved to 
switch to interest only or that it was likely she would be. 
The call notes record Ms S saying she was applying for jobs in December 2020. Ms S then 
confirmed in January 2021 she had got a job offer. The notes say Ms S mentioned she didnt 
know how the job would impact on her benefits, or if the mortgage would be affordable, so it 
seems she was aware she could potentially be worse off. But on 27 January the call records 
say Ms S explained she took the role to refresh her skills and build her confidence with the 
intention of earning more after some time. I cant see that switching to interest only was 
discussed as part of these conversations, it seems more likely than not that Ms S obtained a 
job because she thought that would benefit her in the long term, not because Halifax had 
guaranteed an interest only mortgage.Looking at the call notes further, theres no record of Ms S bringing up the interest only 
option again until April 2021, around the time her fixed rate was coming to an end. Then, on 
10 May 2021, I can see Ms S sent an email to the escalation team saying she felt an interest 
only mortgage was the only way forward. Ms S then started calling other departments to 
enquire about moving to interest only. Im not sure why Ms S would call other departments 
for help if she was under the impression the escalation team had said they could sign off on 
an interest only mortgage. So, I dont think Ms S was confident the escalation team would 
arrange the interest only mortgage for her. It follows, I think she knew there was a risk an 
interest only mortgage would not be approved. 
In any case, it appears Ms S took a new job, and stopped receiving benefits before she 
queried whether she could get an interest only mortgage this time. So, while I empathize 
with Ms Ss situation and appreciate the difficult situation she finds herself in, I still dont think 
Halifax misled her and I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for the arrears. 
Ms S also wanted an additional loan to complete essential repairs to her home. I appreciate 
Ms S says the only way it would be possible to do this is to borrow funds against the house. 
And its understandable Ms S is disappointed Halifax hasnt agreed to do this. But even if the 
work would add to the value of the property and increase the likelihood of Ms S getting a 
lodger for extra income, I dont think it would be responsible for Halifax to loan her any 
additional funds while she remains unable to meet her CMPs and has significant arrears.
Ms Ss arrears have increased to more than £54,000 according to the last data we received 
around September 2022. And at this point, Ms S was still only paying around £725 per 
month instead of her CMP amount which was around £2,038.96. So, the arrears are 
increasing rather than reducing and this is impacting on Ms Ss equity in the property and 
credit file. 
I know Ms S wants to avoid any impact on her credit file as far as possible, but Halifax is 
obligated to accurately report the status of her account. While Ms S is making part-
payments, she has not been able to make her full CMP and this is the only want to ensure 
no missed payments are reported. So, I cant reasonably ask Halifax not to report this. 
I understand the escalation team has advised Ms S to consider alternative options such as 
selling her home while she still has equity in the property. I know this will be an extremely 
difficult decision for Ms S, but she may wish to consider this option further now. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman