DRN-4170879
The complaint
Miss R complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) irresponsibly 
approved a hire purchase agreement with her that she couldnt afford. 
What happened
In July 2020 Miss R acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from BMWFS. The 
agreement required her to make 47 monthly payments of £369, with an optional final 
payment of £12,570 to purchase the car at the end of the agreement. The total amount 
payable for the car and finance was £30,415. 
Miss R traded the car in for another car in August 2022 and paid off the agreement. Shortly 
after, she complained to BMWFS that it had been irresponsible to make the finance 
agreement with her in 2020. 
BMWFS rejected the complaint. They said the lending to Miss R had been approved by an 
automated process. They said this tested creditworthiness and affordability using some 
credit scoring criteria, internal policies, and data from credit reference agencies. BMWFS 
have shown us some of the personal and credit information used. 
Miss R didnt accept this response and brought the complaint to us. One of our investigators 
felt BMWFS hadnt carried out reasonable checks before lending to Miss R. But he felt that if 
they had, they still would have given her the money. A key factor for that view was that he 
felt that Miss Rs fixed outgoings were well within her monthly salary. 
Miss R disagreed with that view. She felt more account needed to be given to repayments 
she was making to family members for money shed borrowed to clear previous debts. And 
she highlighted shed spent significant amounts on gambling in the months before her 
application. She felt BMWFS should have seen this before lending to her, and declined her 
borrowing application.
Unresolved, the case has come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill explain below why Ive decided BMWFS dont need to do anything more to resolve this 
complaint. That means Im not upholding it, even though Ive found BMWFS should have 
done more to check Miss R could afford to repay the money she borrowed. 
The rules that apply to credit agreements are set out in the consumer credit sourcebook 
(CONC) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. Section 5.2A of CONC is relevant 
here, as  among other things  it talks about the need for businesses like BMWFS to 
complete reasonable and proportionate creditworthiness assessments before agreeing to 
lend someone money. 
Im going to consider these rules in the following stages:
1. Did BMWFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss R would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
a. If they did, was their decision to then lend to Miss R fair?
b. If they didnt, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that 
Miss R could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did BMWFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did BMWFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss R 
would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on the details of the 
borrowing and the borrowers individual circumstances. 
Here, the amount borrowed was relatively large. Miss R was agreeing to pay £369 each 
month for four years. And there was a significant final payment needed to purchase the car. 
So Id expect to see a thorough check being completed. 
BMWFS did check Miss Rs historic use of credit. But I havent seen evidence of this being 
assessed in detail alongside Miss Rs income and expenditure. BMWFS needed to satisfy 
themselves that Miss R could afford and sustain the repayments needed under this 
agreement, not just that shed satisfied other credit agreements in the recent past. 
So for the first stage of my decision, I find BMWFS didnt complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks in the circumstances of this case. I find they should have asked Miss R 
for more information about her income and expenditure to get a better understanding of her 
committed spending and her disposable income. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss R could sustainably 
repay the borrowing?
Ive thought about whether BMWFS would still have chosen to lend money to Miss R if 
theyd carried out a reasonable and proportionate check. 
I cant be certain what evidence BMWFS would have asked Miss R to provide, or what 
questions they would have asked her. But Ive seen some bank statements that show 
Miss Rs salary and her spending at the time she took out this loan. I view the information 
these statements give me as indicative of what BMWFS would have found if theyd 
completed a reasonable check. 
Miss Rs monthly salary varied slightly each month  between £1,700 and £2,000. But she 
didnt have a lot of fixed living costs. I cant see she paid regular energy bills, council tax, or 
mortgage or rent costs from her salary. Thats consistent with information BMWFS had that 
she lived with her parents.
I can see Miss R was regularly making payments to family members. Shes told us this was 
to repay money shed borrowed from them over the years. But the amount she paid doesnt 
look to be fixed. It seems Miss R could vary what she paid, depending how much money she 
had at the time. I can also see Miss R had some credit cards she was repaying. But details in the checks 
BMWFS did tell me Miss Rs had met her commitments to these for some years without 
repayment issues. And again, the amount she repaid could vary  although there would be a 
minimum payment to make each month. 
Similarly, I can see Miss R was using her overdraft. But I can also see she was repaying this 
too at times, when she had the money to. At the time of BMWFSs credit check, Miss R only 
seems to have owed £18 towards this overdraft, which I can appreciate wouldnt have 
appeared too difficult to repay. 
So with no fixed living costs to meet from her salary, Miss R would have appeared to have a 
relatively high amount of disposable income available to her. I find it likely that further checks 
showing this information would have led BMWFS to conclude Miss R could sustainably 
afford the £369 monthly repayment here. 
Miss Rs bank statements show she spent a lot of her disposable income with online 
gambling companies. I appreciate Miss R has indicated to us that this was a problem for her. 
But the question for me is whether BMWFS would have been able to find that out if theyd 
completed more reasonable affordability checks. 
Im of the view the checks here could have been completed to a reasonable level without 
Miss R needing to show BMWFS her bank statements. She could have used a payslip to 
demonstrate her income. And she could have confirmed she didnt have fixed living 
expenses, which would have been somewhat supported by her having no bills in her name.
Without those bank statements, it would have been hard for BMWFS to see the scale of 
Miss Rs spending on gambling. 
Its possible that if asked about regular monthly commitments Miss R might have told 
BMWFS she spent a lot gambling. But I cant see she mentioned this during the two years 
she had the loan, even when she was having issues affording it. So I consider it unlikely 
shed have mentioned it when applying for the finance in 2020. 
I can appreciate Miss R feels her spending on gambling was a factor in finding this 
agreement unaffordable. But I dont see that a reasonable and proportionate check would 
necessarily have found that Miss R had this sort of issue before agreeing to lend to her. 
Did BMWFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Miss Rs problems meeting her commitment started shortly after the agreement began. But 
her contact with BMWFS at the time tells me that reflects that she lost her job in late 2020. 
And I can see she then moved for a new job, which altered her committed living expenses. 
But I cant see these sorts of changes in circumstances could have been foreseen when 
BMWFS did their checks. So I find it reasonable the lending decision didnt account for these 
later events. 
Overall I find that while BMWFS should have done more to complete a reasonable and 
proportionate creditworthiness assessment of Miss R, its more likely than not that the 
decision theyd have made if they had would still have been to lend her this money. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman