DRN-3342197
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J, who are represented by a third party, have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds) has unfairly turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
For simplicity I will refer to Mr and Mrs J even when addressing points raised by the third 
party.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J purchased timeshare membership points from a company I will call R on 27 
February 2005.The purchase was funded in part by a credit card provided by Lloyds. 
They say that the product was misrepresented and they were treated unfairly during the 
sale. More specifically they say that they didnt know the points were in perpetuity, they were 
told it was an investment, that it would be tailored to their needs and they would receive 
benefits such as choice of location, accommodations etc. They added that Lloyds failed to 
assess their financial status. They say that had the product not been misrepresented they 
would not have made the purchase.
They asked Lloyds to look into this and refund the total cost of the product. 
Lloyds investigated the claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act and asked for 
further information which it says wasnt forthcoming. It concluded that no breach of contract 
or misrepresentation could be identified. In responding to this service, it also said that the 
claim had been brought too late. 
Unhappy with Lloydss conclusion, they brought the matter to this service. It was considered 
by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr and Mrs J didnt agree but 
made no further representations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has been suggested that this service could consider the complaint due to our rules. I 
consider we can. 
Our rules say that we cant consider a complaint if a consumer refers it to us more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b)  three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint
unless:
the failure to comply with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
When assessing and declining a claim under the Consumer Credit Act, a business is 
exercising its rights and duties under a regulated credit agreement. A consumer may then 
complain if they feel that a business has failed to fulfil its obligations under this credit 
agreement, because they havent received satisfactory compensation for their claim.
So in this case, it follows that the event complained of is Lloydss decision in June 2020 to 
decline the claim Mr and Mrs J made regarding the timeshare, rather than the sale itself. 
They had already complained to this service in October 2018, which is well within the six 
year time limit specified in the rules.
Because of this, I am satisfied that we can look at this complaint, as it has been brought 
within the time limits set under DISP 2.8.2(2). So, I will now go on to consider the complaint.. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Under s.75, Lloyds is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or services for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. This means, Mr and Mrs J have 
a like claim against Lloyds just as they would have against the supplier. So, if the claim 
against the supplier of the timeshare has likely expired under the Limitation Act, then that is 
something Lloyds could take into account when it considers this claim against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits which apply to different types of claims. Mr and 
Mrs J have said the timeshare they bought was misrepresented to them.
Under the Limitation Act, they would have six years from the date upon which they suffered 
a loss as a result of the misrepresentation to bring a claim. 
As Lloyds steps into the shoes of the supplier for the purposes of the s.75 claim, to work out 
when the clock starts running under the Limitation Act, we need to work out when it would 
start if the claim had been brought directly against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person bringing the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result of the misrepresentation.  In this case, given the nature of 
the complaint, I think damage occurred when they suffered a financial loss as a result of 
purchasing the timeshare. Ill explain why below.
Mr and Mrs J say that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, they paid to enter an 
agreement which has caused them to suffer a loss. They say that but for the 
misrepresentation, they wouldnt have entered into the contract at all and wouldnt have paid 
any money to the supplier.
So, I think the point of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which 
was in February 2005. Thats the moment when they accepted any potential benefit under 
the contract, and it was also the moment they accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, Mr and 
Mrs J needed to raise a claim no later than February 2011. As I understand it, they raised 
their claim in March 2018, which is some 13 years after the loss occurred.
They may say that they werent aware they could raise concerns about the 
misrepresentation until much later. But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims 
such as this, start to run from the date of loss, which may fall earlier than the date they 
became aware that something might have gone wrong.  Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into 
this complaint. Under s.140A, the courts may make an order under section 140B in 
connection with a credit agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors. 
Only a court has the power to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law we need to take into consideration. 
The Limitation Act still applies for these types of claims. For a s140A claim, Mr and Mrs J 
would have six years from the date the related finance agreement ended. From the 
information I have, the earliest point at which the balance on the credit card account was 
cleared was October 2006 so a s.140A claim needed to be raised no later than October 
2012. As I understand it, they raised their claim in March 2018, which is almost 12 years 
after the finance agreement ended.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide whether or not any claim they may have against the 
supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that the misrepresentation and breach of contract 
against the supplier and the like claim against Lloyds more than likely exceeded the 
relevant time limits set out in the Limitation Act. So, it would not be unreasonable for Lloyds 
to take this into account when considering the s.75 claim against it. 
So, given that the claim now is more than likely time barred under the Limitation Act, I think 
Lloydss decision not to look into the claim was fair. 
I would add thar Mr and Mrs J referenced that their financial status wasnt established. They 
have not said that the product was unaffordable and I have seen no evidence in support of 
that suggestion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js claim against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman