DRN-1585808
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Yorkshire Building Society (when it was trading as Chelsea Building 
Society) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened 
Mr P took out a mortgage in 1989. The mortgage deal he chose included PPI to cover his 
monthly mortgage repayments in the event that he couldnt work as a result of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mr P disagrees. 
Mr P mainly says that he didnt need the cover as he already had savings and sick pay that 
he couldve relied on if he wasnt working and guarantors for his mortgage.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Its not surprising, given how long ago this sale happened, that all the original signed 
paperwork from the sale isnt still available. I wouldnt reasonably expect Yorkshire Building 
Society to have kept this for so long  but the papers that Mr P has been able to provide 
have been very helpful. 
Yorkshire Building Society couldnt say how it sold Mr P his mortgage with PPI, but Mr P 
thinks he applied by post. So Ive relied on this information when thinking about his 
complaint.
In order to uphold Mr Ps complaint Id have to find that its likely he wasnt given a fair 
choice about PPI or that it was added to his account without his proper consent. 
Yorkshire Building Society has explained that PPI was a compulsory part of the mortgage 
deal Mr P signed up to. And I can see thats correct as Mr P has sent me a copy of his 
mortgage offer which says:
This offer is subject to Accident, Sickness and Unemployment Insurance being arranged by 
the applicant(s) under a policy acceptable to the Society and cover must be in force for at 
least the first four years of the mortgage term.
Making PPI compulsory in these circumstances doesnt mean PPI was mis-sold. So this isnt 
a reason for me to uphold his complaint. Mr P couldve applied for a different mortgage without PPI if this wasnt the mortgage package he wanted. And/or he couldve arranged PPI 
elsewhere if this wasnt the policy he wanted. 
I think the mortgage paperwork made it clear that hed be signing up to have PPI alongside 
his mortgage. And it appears Mr P was happy to do this at the time to have the mortgage he 
wanted.
Yorkshire Building Society still had to make sure that Mr P had enough information to make 
a proper decision about whether PPI was right for him. 
Ive taken into account what Mr P has told us about his circumstances at the time. It looks 
like he could've depended on his employer to pay him at least 6 months sick pay. The policy 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim if he was unable to work. And the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of sick pay, providing Mr P with a useful benefit at a difficult time  
especially if he had some extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled. 
As well as this, the policy wouldve paid out if Mr P lost his job and was unemployed. 
And repeat claims were possible, giving Mr P long term protection whilst he was paying for 
his home.
It looks like Mr P put down a deposit of around £9,000 when he took out this mortgage for 
the balance of the purchase price. So I think its likely this would've used up at least some of 
his savings. And he wouldve also had to put money towards the costs of buying and setting 
up in his new home. Also, I can see that the mortgage he took out had low start up costs to 
keep down the amount of the monthly repayments at the beginning. This makes me think 
that money was probably tight and Mr P might not have had much left over in savings at the 
time after paying for his house. 
So I dont know if Mr P wouldve always had savings he wouldve been able to rely on if hed 
needed to make a claim. And having PPI wouldve meant he could keep any savings intact 
to spend on other things or to provide financial security. I can see why Mr P mightve valued 
the protection PPI couldve provided if hed needed to claim.
His parents were named as guarantors for his mortgage. But relying on other people to help 
out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as taking out PPI as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Mr P was eligible for the policy. There were some policy exclusions and limitations. But 
I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected 
his decision to have PPI. I say this because it doesnt look as if there wouldve been any 
significant or long term reasons why Mr P wouldnt have been able to take advantage of all 
the policy benefits. So, I dont think that knowing more about what the policy didnt cover 
wouldve put Mr P off taking it out. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr P when he applied for the PPI. But he 
chose this mortgage deal knowing hed have to pay for PPI and it seems to have been 
affordable for him at the time. So, overall, I think it unlikely hed have made a different 
decision about whether to take out his mortgage with PPI if better information had been 
provided. 
This means I dont find that Mr P has lost out as a result of anything that Yorkshire Building 
Society did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decisionFor these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman