DRN-2734539
The complaint
Mr C complains about the premium BUPA Insurance Limited charged him in relation to his 
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr C was a member of a group private medical scheme 
provided by his employer. In June 2020, Mr C was diagnosed with a serious illness and 
left his employment. Mr C took out a private medical insurance policy with BUPA which 
started on 1 July 2020. The annual premium was £8,210.04. 
Mr C thinks that BUPA penalised him with an increase in cost because of his diagnosis. 
He doesnt think thats fair as he received the diagnosis whilst he was a member of the 
group private medical insurance scheme. I understand that Mr Cs personal medical 
insurance policy ended on 31 December 2020 and that hes now insured with another 
provider outside the UK. 
The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service isnt the regulator, so we cant direct BUPA generally about how it conducts its 
business or sets its premiums. But I can look at whether it has treated Mr C fairly. I agree 
with the conclusions reached by the investigator and Ill explain why.
In general terms, insurers are entitled to decide what risks they wish to cover and the 
premium they wish to charge. 
Under the group private medical scheme, the contract was between BUPA and       
Mr Cs ex employer. Mr Cs membership of the group scheme wasnt medically 
underwritten, which means that BUPA didnt ask Mr C questions about his health 
when he became a member of the group scheme. When Mr C left his employment 
his membership of the group scheme ended. 
The membership guide for the group scheme provides that when Mr Cs membership 
ends, BUPA may be able to offer continuation of membership on a BUPA personal 
policy, depending on how long Mr C had been a group scheme member. BUPA 
offered Mr C continuation of cover here, but it isnt obliged to offer Mr C a private 
medical insurance policy on the same terms as the group membership scheme. 
Members of group schemes may pay lower subscriptions than the premium they 
would pay for a private medical insurance policy. Thats because an employer may 
subsidise the costs and the risks the insurer takes on are spread more widely in a 
group scheme. 
When BUPA offered Mr C a private medical insurance policy it asked him questions 
about his health, medical history and lifestyle. BUPA was entitled to do that. BUPA 
initially made an error in that the quote it first gave to Mr C didnt take into account  
his diagnosis. BUPA apologised for that and paid Mr C compensation for its error. As 
this was continuation cover, I agree that Mr Cs diagnosis didnt pre-exist his health 
insurance with BUPA. But BUPA was entitled to take into account Mr Cs diagnosis 
when deciding the level of premium, so I dont find that it acted unfairly in doing so, 
as the private medical insurance policy is a contract on new terms.  
Mr C has asked what the premium would have been if he hadnt received the 
diagnosis Ive referred to above. I dont think thats central to the fair resolution of this 
complaint. Thats because BUPA was entitled to take into account the information it 
had about Mr Cs health when setting the premium for the new private medical 
insurance policy. It wasnt obliged to offer Mr C cover on the basis that he hadnt had 
the diagnosis. 
BUPA has provided me with confidential, business sensitive information to explain 
how it calculated the premium for Mr Cs private medical insurance policy. Im afraid I 
cant share that information with Mr C. I appreciate thats frustrating, but this service 
doesnt think its unreasonable for insurers not to share with individuals sensitive 
commercial data showing how it calculated the premium. Thats because the 
information could be used by competitors to gain a commercial advantage. But 
insurers usually provide sensitive information to this service on the basis that we will 
treat the information as confidential.
Ive looked carefully at the information BUPA has provided. Im satisfied the premium 
BUPA charged Mr C for his private medical insurance policy was calculated correctly. 
Ive seen nothing to indicate that Mr C was treated less favourably than another 
individual in a similar position as him. Thats not to say that I dont agree with Mr C 
that the premium is much more than the subscription he paid in the group scheme: it 
clearly was. But BUPA has explained why this is the case and I dont think, having 
reviewed the information thats been provided, that BUPA calculated Mr Cs premium 
unfairly. Premium setting is essentially a matter  of commercial judgement and not 
something with which we would usually think its fair to interfere.
I appreciate how important this matter is for Mr C but, considering everything, I dont 
think that BUPA treated him unfairly in setting the premium for his private medical 
insurance policy. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman