DRN-1613970
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs M was sold PPI alongside a credit card in 1999.
The policy cost 69p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It wouldve paid 10% of 
the monthly outstanding balance for up to 12 months if Mrs M was off work sick or lost her 
job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld.
Mrs M didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Based on Mrs Ms age and circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied she was 
eligible under the policy.
Capital One had to make it clear to Mrs M that the PPI was optional and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mrs M says that it wasnt made clear to her that the 
PPI was optional. She says she was told it came with the loan and she was pressured into 
taking it out.
Ive thought carefully about what Mrs M has told us and looked to the documents from the 
time of the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have happened during the sale. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think the PPI was sold during a postal sale with no 
involvement from a representative. So I have insufficient evidence to be able to conclude 
that Mrs M was pressured into taking PPI.
Ive seen a copy of the credit application Mrs M completed at the time of the sale. I can see 
that Mrs M would have been presented with two equally clear options to take or refuse PPI  
the option to take PPI was selected and Mrs M signed this form. 
So, while I appreciate what Mrs M has told us, based on the evidence available to me, I think 
PPI was presented as optional and that it was only applied to Mrs Ms account because she 
chose to take it out. Of course I understand Mrs M may now no longer recall this given the 
length of time since the sale.
I dont think Capital One advised Mrs M to take the policy out. This means they didnt have to 
take steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Mrs M. 
But they still had to give Mrs M information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way   in 
particular about the costs/benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy - so that she 
could make an informed decision about whether or not to take the policy out.
I dont think Capital One gave Mrs M all of the information as they shouldve about the 
costs/benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy. This in itself doesnt mean the 
PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information wouldve put 
Mrs M off taking the policy. I dont think it wouldve. I say this because:
- Mrs M has told us she wasnt entitled to employee sick pay at the time of the sale. 
- Mrs M didnt appear to have been affected by the main exclusions or restrictive terms 
in the policy which wouldve made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim. 
For example, terms relating to pre-existing medical conditions and unusual working 
arrangements.
- Mrs M couldve cancelled the PPI policy at any time without losing out financially if 
she no longer needed or wanted it.
- I havent seen any evidence which suggests the PPI wasnt affordable for Mrs M.
So taking everything into consideration, I dont think Capital One mis-sold Mrs M this PPI 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman