DRN-3491770
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mrs and Mr B took out in 
2021 on the advice and recommendation of Key Retirement Solutions Limited (KRS). The 
essence of the complaint is that KRSs advisor failed to ensure the mortgage included 
enough money to pay the early repayment charge (ERC) applied by their existing lender on 
redemption.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr B and KRS. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs and Mr B being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
rounding the figures where appropriate, and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs and Mr B arranged their first lifetime mortgage through KRS in 2017; it was with a lender 
Ill call A. As is customary with mortgages of this type, the terms of the mortgage provided 
that no monthly repayments were required. The intention was that the mortgage would be 
repaid when the surviving borrower went into full-time nursing care or after their death. It 
could be repaid voluntarily before either of those events have happened, but then an early 
repayment charge (ERC) was payable. In Mrs and Mr Bs case, the ERC was a variable 
amount, dependent on movements in a specified investment index, but would not exceed 
£37,500.
In 2021, Mrs and Mr B applied through KRS for new equity release mortgage, to raise 
additional funds. The new mortgage was with a different lender, which Ill call C. As this 
meant repaying the mortgage with A, an ERC would be payable. Mrs and Mr B told KRS 
theyd need to borrow enough to pay the ERC as they didnt have it available. A initially 
quoted an ERC of a little under £9,400 but on the actual day of completion, the ERC was 
double that. Mrs and Mr B had to take out a short-term bank loan to make up the difference.
When Mrs and Mr B complained, KRS pointed out that the original mortgage offer from 2017 
had set out the variable nature of the ERC payable on the mortgage with A. Meanwhile, the 
advisor had referenced it in the suitability report for the 2021 mortgage recommendation, 
and mentioned it in a telephone conversation. 
Our investigator didnt think KRS had done anything wrong. Mrs and Mr B have asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally; nor do we issue 
fines against financial businesses. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for me to assess if and when I have enough evidence to decide a complaint fairly. In the 
case at hand, Im satisfied I can do that on the basis of what both parties have said and 
provided already. 
Firstly, I appreciate Mrs and Mr B were unhappy that KRSs response to their complaint 
covered the 2017 sale as well as the 2021 sale they were actually unhappy with. However, 
the ERC that triggered the complaint was a term in the 2017 contract. So the manner in 
which the 2017 sale was conducted  specifically how the variable nature of the ERC was 
drawn to their attention - was relevant to the complaint about how the 2021 sale was 
conducted.  
Secondly, the additional ERC Mrs and Mr B have paid is not a loss, as theyre claiming. It 
was money they were legitimately required to pay, under the terms of their contract with A. 
They could not redeem the mortgage with A without paying an ERC; the ERC they paid was 
the amount that was due on the date the mortgage was repaid. So Mrs and Mr A were 
always going to have to pay the higher figure, and insofar as they didnt have the money 
available, they were always going to have to borrow it. Ill come back to that in a moment.
I cant agree with Mrs and Mr Bs view that KRS didnt do enough to make them aware this 
could happen; it told them in writing and over the phone that the eventual ERC could be for a 
different amount from the figure that had been factored into the new mortgage. The written 
notification was consistent with what the FCA  as regulator  requires. If Mrs and Mr B 
thinks the information should be displayed differently, thats a matter to take up with the 
FCA.
Mrs and Mr B have referenced another conversation with someone from KRS, who they say 
told them the ERC was excepted to be the lower figure. Theres no recording of that 
conversation, but in any event nothing turns on it. The calculation of the actual amount 
payable was a matter for A to carry out, without reference to KRS, and to communicate to 
Mrs and Mr B via their solicitor. 
Ive already found that Mrs and Mr B would always have had to borrow to pay the ERC, 
whatever the eventual amount. Its not realistic to say KRS should have recommended the 
new mortgage from C be enough to ensure the ERC would be covered come what may. The 
terms of the mortgage with A meant the ERC could potentially be £37,500; that would mean 
KRS recommending Mrs and Mr B borrow around £28,00 extra on the mortgage with C that 
might never be needed. If theyd done that, the lifetime nature of the borrowing would have 
made such borrowing potentially a lot more expensive than the short-term loan they took out.
I understand Mrs and Mr B found the experience of dealing with KRS second time around to 
be less satisfying than in 2017, but the outcome that resulted from it wasnt unfair, and 
ultimately thats the test I have to apply.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 July 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman