DRN-3984579
The complaint
Mr Y complains that he couldnt set up new payees in online banking with HSBC UK Bank 
Plc (HSBC).
What happened
Mr Y has a current account with HSBC. In July 2022, he reported to HSBC that he couldnt 
set up new payees to make online payments. 
Mr Y complained. He said that after several months, he still couldnt set up new payees in 
mobile, or online banking.  He said HSBC hadnt addressed and sorted the problem out. He 
said HSBCs service had been poor, and they hadnt called him back when he asked them 
to, or when they committed to. As of November 2022, he told us the problem remained.
HSBC said that Mr Y had been in touch with their IT department who were trying to sort 
things out. Some confusion had arisen because of three similar complaints being logged for 
the same issue. During our investigation, HSBC offered compensation of £100.
Mr Y brought his complaint to us. He didnt accept HSBCs offer of compensation. Our 
investigator said HSBC gave Mr TY some technical support in July 2022 which seemed to fix 
the problem. But since then, the issue seems to be ongoing. Mr Y had raised three 
complaints with HSBC on the same issue. But equally, HSBC hadnt fulfilled the promised 
call-backs  so he could see why further complaints were opened. HSBC had tried to sort 
matters out. But our investigator could see how frustrating things had been for Mr Y  he 
recommended a compensation payment of £200.
Mr Y didnt agree and said it should be more. HSBC also didnt agree as they said  paying 
more compensation didnt resolve Mr Ys problem.
So  Mr Ys complaint has come to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read through Mr Ys complaint, its evident that the problem still exists  he still 
cannot set up new payees in online or mobile banking. He showed us screenshots of 
attempts hes made. I could also see that several calls with HSBC have not resolved 
matters, and HSBC didnt call him back as arranged on some occasions. So  the 
experience hasnt been a good one for Mr Y.
But equally, HSBC have shown us records that demonstrate that theyre trying to resolve Mr 
Ys technical issues  as recently as this month. I cant comment on why the technical 
problem has arisen, or what the solution might be. But  Im satisfied that HSBC are trying 
their best to put things right. And from the perspective of this service - thats all we can 
expect HSBC to do here.
Mr Y has said the time spent on the matter is inconvenient. I can accept it has been 
frustrating for him  but I can also see (from his bank statements) that he does have other 
bank accounts, and so presumably, he can use those to make payments. And  he can also 
use HSBCs telephone banking service to make payments  as Ive not seen anything to 
suggest thats affected. So  Im not persuaded that the inconvenience is significant or 
insurmountable.
HSBC have also told us that Mr Y has raised several complaints with them  both in 
connection with this matter, and others. So  it seems fair to say that Mr Y isnt happy with 
HSBC and hasnt been for some time. Therefore, I think its reasonable for me to say that 
when a customers level of dissatisfaction reaches such a level  it might be that Mr Y might 
wish to consider whether he wants to continue to bank with HSBC. 
Mr Ys technical issue doesnt appear to have been resolved  and HSBC are still trying to 
deal with that. I very much hope they will be successful. But this decision sets out that as far 
as the complaint that Mr Y has brought to us is concerned, this is our final decision. 
Therefore, in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys rules for dealing with disputes, this 
complaint is not one which Mr Y can bring to this service again.
My decision is that I agree with our investigator  for the length of time this had taken, and 
for some of the service issues experienced by Mr Y, compensation of £200 is appropriate. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
Pay compensation of £200 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman