DRN-4349328
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank keep 
reporting their loan as defaulted despite Mr M maintaining the monthly repayments.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a Tesco loan. Mrs M filed for an Individual Voluntary Arrangement 
(IVA) in 2021 and this loan was included. When Mr M found out this loan was included, he 
contacted them and told them he would take over the payment. Mr M was declined finance 
after this, and he had credit limits reduced by third party credit card providers. Mr M 
contacted Tesco and found out that there was a default status on the loan. Tesco said they 
would contact a Credit Reference Agency (CRA) to rectify this as they hadnt missed a 
payment, however, this happened on a couple of occasions. Mr M wanted either Mrs M to be 
removed from the loan or Tesco to set up a new loan for the remaining balance in just his 
name. Mr M made a complaint to Tesco. 
Tesco did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. They said due to numerous factors taking 
place on the account, their credit file amendment team need to manually update the CRAs 
on a monthly basis. They said as this is a joint loan account, one party had entered into an 
IVA, whilst the other party is maintaining the contractual payments each month however, due 
to the CRAs they report to and how they process reportings, this is causing an effect which 
needs to be manually updated. They said two of the CRAs (due to the insolvency included 
in this joint account) report the accounts separately, but one of the CRAs still reports this 
under one account. They said the IVA is causing the reporting with the other CRA to report 
the account as being in default even though the contractual payments are still being made. 
Tesco said they have no control over how CRAs report each month and regrettably, there is 
nothing they can do apart from to manually update Mr Ms credit file each month as they are 
unable to change the CRAs way of reporting, nor can they remove the IVA.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld their complaint. 
He said Tesco have a duty to ensure the information it reports to CRAs shows accurately. 
Reporting the account to one of the CRAs means incorrect information shows on Mr Ms 
credit file every month until it is corrected, which impacts his credit score, so Tesco removing 
this each month doesnt go far enough to rectify the error. He said this has caused Mr M 
significant distress and inconvenience. Our investigator said that Tesco should either 
remove Mrs M from the credit agreement or stop reporting the account to the CRA who 
displays a default each month. He said Tesco should also pay £200 compensation.
Tesco asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said they wouldnt be able to 
change the loan into Mr Ms name only and both parties had entered into a legally binding 
agreement by agreeing to a joint loan. They also said that they would be unable to stop 
reporting the loan to one of the CRAs and this could have further implications on any future 
creditors being able to see the loan payment history. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do have a lot of sympathy for the position that Mr M finds himself in here. Its clear that 
what has happened with the IVA is directly affecting his credit file with one of the CRAs and 
has resulted in him being declined for credit and his credit score decreasing when the 
account shows as defaulted. But what I need to do here, is to see if Tesco are responsible 
for what happened here. 
When Tesco were informed that this loan was subject to the IVA, they would need to respect 
this and act accordingly here. This appears to have happened prior to Mr M contacting them 
to say he would take over the payments. There could be issues with the Insolvency 
Practitioner if Mrs M was removed from a loan which is part of the IVA as it would then be 
likely showing as settled on her credit file, which would be unfair when the loan wasnt 
actually settled, and it could potentially breach her IVA. In addition, if Mrs M breaches or 
doesnt complete the IVA, then she ought to be still liable for the loan again, and Tesco 
wouldnt be able to remove her from the loan and add her back if that happens. But I dont 
think Tesco should remove Mrs M from the loan regardless and Ill explain why.
This was a joint loan agreement which was entered into, and as such, both parties are liable, 
so it wouldnt be proportionate to remove Mrs M from the loan, and I wouldnt expect Tesco 
to do this here, when both parties had agreed to a joint loan. I also couldnt ask Tesco to set 
up a new loan for Mr M only as a new lending decision would need to be completed based 
on current circumstances. Mr Ms situation may have changed from when the loan was first 
taken out and Tescos lending criteria may be different now to how it was when the loan was 
first taken out, including interest rates. They would have no obligation to do either of the 
things which Mr M has asked them to do.
Tesco have a duty to report payment history to the CRAs. They would be failing in their 
duties if they stopped reporting the payment activity to one of the CRAs. This also could 
have larger implications if they were to do this. I say this because if the five figure loan was 
not reported to the CRA then other lenders would not be aware that Mr M had a five figure 
loan with Tesco, and they would not be aware he was paying nearly £330 a month towards 
this loan. So a third party could irresponsibly lend to Mr M unintentionally with them not 
being aware of his full circumstances if the loan was not reported to the CRA. 
In addition, if the loan was not reported to the CRA and Mr M had financial difficulty and he 
was unable to meet the full monthly repayments, then the CRA would not be able to show 
that Mr M was unable to maintain his payments and again, this could lead to an unfair 
lending decision with  third party lender if Mr M was to try and get credit elsewhere. So I 
cant ask Tesco to breach their duties here and to stop the reporting of this loan to the 
CRAs. 
Im not persuaded that Tesco are giving the CRAs incorrect information. They show that the 
payment has been made even when one of the CRAs displays the account has defaulted. I 
say this as Mr M has provided us with a copy of his credit file. For the December 2022 credit 
file he gave us I can see on the Tesco entry that the loan had received the payments and the 
balance history is going down each month, showing a payment had been paid each month. 
But even when the October 2022 shows a payment and an outstanding balance of £15,608 
for October 2022, even when it shows a default with November 2022s status, it shows the 
outstanding balance is £15,240 for November 2022, which indicates a payment had been 
made that month. 
The fact that two CRAs do not report a default on Mr Ms credit file suggests that Tesco 
themselves are not telling the CRAs that Mr M himself has defaulted on the loan. As this complaint is about Tesco, I can only see if they have done anything wrong here. They would 
be factually correct if they told the CRAs the loan is part of an IVA due to the arrangement 
Mrs M has entered into. But Mr M may wish to speak to the CRA to see if they can display 
the information differently.  
Im persuaded that Tesco have tried to help Mr M here, although I know he feels they could 
do more. But Im not persuaded they could do what Mr M wants them to do as they would be 
failing their regulatory duties, and this could cause more harm to both Mr and Mrs M for the 
reasons Ive already given. I know its not Mr Ms preferred solution, but Tesco manually 
contact the CRA each month for them to correct Mr Ms credit file, which Im persuaded is 
proportionate here. I know Mr M has been declined for credit (and had a reduction in his 
credit limit), and his credit score is impacted whilst awaiting the credit file to be rectified, but I 
cant hold Tesco responsible for how a CRA displays the information on his credit file when 
they have reported payments have been made. So I dont intend to ask Tesco to do anything 
further here.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman