DRN-2298794
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the settlement paid to him by (the company now known as) 
Fairmead Insurance Limited in respect of his home insurance claim for fire damage to 
his contents.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr S reported to Fairmead that his car had been set on fire whilst it was 
outside his home. This caused damage to the front of the house and the contents, a lot of 
which had been packed in boxes pending a move. He had already exchanged contracts 
for the sale of his home. It was agreed that Fairmead would deal with the contents claim 
and the purchasers insurer with the buildings claim.
Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster to review the claim but he had difficulty in assessing 
the value of the contents, because a lot of them had already been packed away. It paid 
him an emergency payment of £5,000. Thereafter a contractor was appointed to remove 
the contents into storage. The loss adjuster approved the contractors costs for cleaning 
and restoring a number of items. This was done without Mr Ss agreement. When the 
items were returned they hadnt been properly cleaned  they were suffering from water 
damage and items like sofas had shards of broken glass still embedded in them. The fire 
brigade had had to break in to put out the fire.
Fairmead agreed to pay a settlement for such items. But it also agreed that the 
contractors could charge for the removal and extra storage costs of those items. The 
contractors total costs amounted to £5,118.
When the claims settlement was proposed Fairmead advised that the contractors costs 
would be deducted from the settlement. It agreed a total settlement of £28,197.50, 
including the additional items valued at £6,240. Adding in the contractors costs of 
£5,118, the cost of replacing the carpet (paid to the purchasers) of £1,845.40 and the 
carpet validation fee of £72, this produced a settlement of £35,232.90. The policy limit for 
contents was £35,000. After deducting the excess of £200, the contractors fee, the 
£5,000 emergency payment, the costs for the carpet and the amount by which the policy 
limit was exceeded, Fairmead proposed a payment to Mr S of £22,964.60.
Mr S reluctantly accepted this but didnt see why he had to pay the contractors fees, 
especially when he believed they were at fault. He also didnt like the way he was treated 
by the loss adjuster. Even then Mr S had to chase his settlement and found that it had 
been paid mistakenly to his purchasers. Fairmead recovered the payment but only after a 
few weeks.
Fairmead apologised for the poor service and agreed to pay Mr S £450 
compensation. It didnt address the payment to the contractors save to say that it 
would not have been reasonable to refuse the opportunity to clean furniture when it 
had been advised it was economical to do so.
I issued a provisional decison. In it I said that Fairmead had wrongly deducted the costs of 
removal and storage from the claim settlement, and that it should refund those costs with 
interest. I said I couldnt award Mrs S any compensation for loss of earnings. I said that the 
£450 compensation proposed was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs S replied to my point about Mrs Ss loss of earnings, as Id said she couldnt be 
awarded compensation for this as she wasnt a policyholder. They said that Mr S had 
suffered a similar loss as he had had to take time off work. I asked whether he had any proof 
of such loss, and whether it had been put to Fairmead before. Mr and Mrs S replied that they 
werent able to provide any such proof.
Fairmead didnt reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provsional findings:
If the policy limit for contents is £35,000 the maximum Mr S can claim for loss or damage 
to contents is £35,200 (the excess being £200). The limit does not include costs 
associated with running the claim, e.g. loss adjusters fees, storage, removal and disposal 
costs. But, rather than attempting to apportion the fees between those costs and the cost 
of cleaning and restoration, the overall costs even including the contractors fees didnt 
exceed £35,200 (save for a small sum of £32.90). So, its my view that the £5,118 
contractors fees shouldnt in any event have been deducted from the settlement paid to 
Mr S. This sum should be repaid together with interest at 8% from the date it was advised 
to Mr S (13 May 2019) to the date it is paid.
Since those costs should not for the most part have been added to the settlement, Mr 
Ss claim hasnt exceeded the policy limit. So the £32.90 should be repaid with interest 
for the same period. I understand Fairmeads argument that it was difficult to assess the 
value of the contents but I think it had to take the situation as it was. Mr S suffered his 
loss at a time when his contents were largely packed away ready for a move. And he 
was legally obliged to remove the contents from his home to allow the purchasers to 
move in. Fairmead has agreed to pay the claim up to the policy limit and it should honour 
that.
I understand that Mr S had to chase up the settlement and was only told about the 
mistaken payment to his purchasers some weeks after the event. I dont think this was a 
deliberate attempt to keep him in the dark. The loss adjusters had to establish the facts 
and recover the payment. The proposal to pay interest on the settlement from the time it 
was mistakenly paid until it was paid to Mr S is fair.
Mr S complained that he wasnt told about the contractors costs and that the loss 
adjuster agreed those costs without notifying him. I think thats right; the fees were 
agreed without reference to him, which might not have mattered had Fairmead not then 
sought to charge Mr S those costs. He was also upset to receive back a number of his 
contents in a dirty and damaged state. I note Fairmeads view that in light of the 
contents being already packed away it wasnt possible to assess these. I note that but it 
doesnt account for items like sofas being returned in a dirty and damaged state when it 
would have been quite possible to assess them. I understand that the circumstances of 
this claim were distressing for Mr S and his wife. I can only award compensation to the 
extent that the way the contents were dealt with added to that distress. And I think the 
figure of £450 proposed is fair for the trouble and upset caused by this.Ive noted that Mrs S had to take time off work to be present at inspections. As shes 
been advised she isnt a policyholder and I dont have the power to award her 
compensation.
I take note of Mr Ss concerns about the way the loss adjuster spoke to him. But thats 
difficult to assess from my point of view, not having an independent record of any of the 
conversations. Fairmead hasnt really addressed those concerns in its final response, 
but if Mr S wants to take them up he should contact Fairmead directly.
Ive noted what Mr S says about his loss of earnings, though I cant see that he has 
asserted before that he personally lost earnings. In any event, and as Ive advised him, 
without evidence of those lost earnings, Im not able to make an award.
Having reviewed the matter I stand by my provisional findings. Those findings are now 
final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
My overall view is that Fairmead has wrongly deducted £5,118 from Mr Ss claim. It 
should repay this together with the £32.90 over limit payment and add simple interest* at 
the rate of 8% per year for both sums from 13 May 2019 until the date it repays them. 
Fairmead should also pay simple interest* at the rate of 8% per year from the date the 
main settlement of £22,964.60 was paid to Mr Ss purchasers until the date it paid this 
sum to Mr S. Fairmead should also pay Mr S £450 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Fairmead Insurance Limited to act as Ive set out 
above under Putting things right.
*Fairmead Insurance Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax 
from any interest paid. Should Mr S request it, Fairmead should provide him with a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, he can 
reclaim it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman