DRN-4201636
The complaint
Miss B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
In January 2022 Miss B applied for a credit card with AESEL. AESEL approved the 
application and gave Miss B a card with an initial credit limit of £1000.
Miss B complained that AESEL had lent to her irresponsibly. She said she already had 
significant credit commitments at the time she applied for the card.
AESEL didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Miss B.
Miss B remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They said that AESEL hadnt provided details of the 
checks it had carried out before lending to Miss B and that because of this it wasnt possible 
to conclude that AESEL had complied with its obligation to satisfy itself that Miss B would be 
able to sustainably repay the credit.
AESEL didnt respond to the investigators view so Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Miss Bs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend the rules say that AESEL needed to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Miss B could sustainably repay what was being lent to 
her.
Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to complete. But lenders are required to have 
regard to things like the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly 
repayment and the customers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable 
and proportionate.
This service asked AESEL to provide details of the checks it completed before lending to 
Miss B. AESEL hasnt provided any information. Because of this, Im unable to say that 
AESEL completed reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that Miss B could 
sustainably repay what was being lent. In these circumstances, Im unable to safely 
conclude that AESEL has shown that it completed reasonable and proportionate checks. 
Therefore, Im upholding the complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right, AESEL must:
Refund all interest and charges applied to the account together with 8% simple interest per 
year from the date of each payment to the date of settlement
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. American Express Services Europe Limited must take the steps Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman