DRN-2096989
The complaint
Miss P says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about a six-month instalment loan of £500 that Lending Stream provided to 
Miss P in January 2020. Miss P had problems meeting the planned repayment schedule and 
as far as Im aware, the loan isnt yet fully repaid. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint and thought the loan was correctly lent. 
In summary, our adjudicator thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about Miss Ps circumstances at the time 
and her history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask Miss P for 
the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
there wasnt anything in the information Miss P provided, or the information Lending 
Stream shouldve been aware of, which meant that Lending Stream shouldve taken 
steps to verify the information Miss P had declared
as this was the first loan Miss P had taken out with Lending Stream, Miss P didn't 
have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted Lending Stream to any 
underlying money problems. 
Miss P disagreed with our adjudicators view so the complaint was passed to me. 
Miss P mainly feels that the loan shouldnt have been provided because she already had 
outstanding loans with other short-term loan companies, shown on her bank statements, 
which Lending Stream wouldve known about if it had done a credit search. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss P could repay the loan in a sustainable way. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what all this means for Miss Ps complaint.  
Before lending to Miss P, Lending Stream asked Miss P for information about her financial 
situation, such as her monthly income and her outgoings  split into various categories. 
From what I can see, Miss P declared her income as £1393. Lending Stream boosted the 
expense figures she gave to provide an extra safety margin  and it took into account the 
amount she said she had to spend on other borrowing  around £500. After paying her 
outgoings it looks as though she still had a disposable income of more than £500 per month. 
Miss P was due to repay the loan in six instalments and the highest repayment was around 
£177. This was the first loan Miss P had taken with Lending Stream and the checks Lending 
Stream says it carried out didnt suggest Miss P couldnt afford to repay the loan. Based on 
all the information it seems Miss P told Lending Stream and the information it recorded on 
her application, it wouldve looked like Miss P had sufficient money left after paying her other 
monthly outgoings to comfortably repay the loan. So I dont think Lending Stream was wrong 
to lend this loan. 
Miss P says Lending Stream shouldve known she was in financial difficulties at the time it 
lent to her, due to the other high cost loans she had outstanding. 
But wed expect Lending Stream to decide Miss Ps lending application based on the 
information it was reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. 
Lending Stream has told us it checked what Miss P had said about her monthly expenses for 
other loans and credit agreements with an independent credit reference agency. The figure 
she provided seems broadly reasonable and Lending Stream allowed for this when working 
out if the loan shed applied for was affordable for Miss P.
Perhaps its also worth just mentioning here that when a lender carries out a credit search, 
the information it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a persons own 
credit search will. And it isnt necessarily up to date  that can depend on when other 
creditors have reported information and when its been recorded by the credit reference 
agency. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some 
information might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, the information that Miss P 
might see on her own credit check, including other short term loans, may not have been 
identified by a credit check done by Lending Stream when she applied for this loan.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Lending Stream to lend  especially as there wasnt 
anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Miss P wouldnt be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Lending 
Stream to probe any more deeply into Miss Ps finances or ask Miss P to prove what she 
was declaring or check other information sources (like her bank statements) to verify what 
she had told them (or omitted to say) about her financial circumstances. 
Im sorry that Miss P had a problem with debt and that repaying this loan proved difficult for 
her. I accept that in reality Miss Ps actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected 
either in the information she provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
And, in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in deciding to lend 
this loan to Miss P. 
And I don't feel theres anything further I can usefully add to what our adjudicator has said 
already in response to Miss P about each case being decided on its own merits  so what 
happened on a different case doesnt affect the outcome here.
I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Miss P and Im sorry. 
But I hope my explanations help her understand why Ive reached these conclusions. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman