DRN-2922514
The complaint
Ms V (by the way of her representative) has complained that PDL Finance Limited (trading 
as Mr Lender) gave her unaffordable loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Ms Vs complaint. Mr Lender did not agree with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was partially upholding Ms Vs 
complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follows 
and forms part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ms V took seven instalment loans from Mr Lender between December 2014 and May 2018.
A summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Mr Lender can
be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Number of Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount 
Borrowed
1 18/12/2014 22/06/2015 6 £400.00
2 07/09/2015 22/03/2016 6 £500.00
3 18/07/2016 24/12/2016 6 £900.00
4 24/12/2016 14/06/2017 6 £700.00
5 14/06/2017 26/12/2017 6 £650.00
6 26/12/2017 29/05/2018 12 £1,000.00
7 29/05/2018 12/04/2019 12 £1,500.00
One of our adjudicators looked at Ms Vs complaint. He didnt uphold her complaint about
loans 1 and 2. But, when Ms V applied for loan 3, our adjudicator thought that Mr Lender
ought to have been verifying the information Ms V told it. Our service requested information
about Ms Vs circumstances such as her bank statements and credit file at the time. But as
Ms V hadnt provided information showing what her circumstances were like at the time, she
took out these loans, the adjudicator couldnt safely conclude that the loan was unaffordable.
But by loan 4, the adjudicator thought Mr Lender ought to have realised that Ms Vs pattern
of lending was showing signs that these loans had become unsustainable for her. So, the
adjudicator thought Mr Lender was wrong to continue approving loans from loan 4.
It appears that Ms V agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Mr Lender disagreed and provided the following points to consider;
There were some significant gaps in the lending relationship, such as between loans
1 and 2 and loans 2 and 3. Because of these gaps these loans should be viewed as
new borrowing relationships.
The amounts borrowed throughout the entire borrowing relationship did increase
overall. However, there was no dramatic increase in borrowing.
There were no signs of any financial difficulties.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms V
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms V. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish
whether Ms V could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Ms Vs complaint.Loans 1-3
The adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Mr Lender to have provided Ms Vs first three
loans. Both Mr Lender and Ms V appear to have accepted our adjudicators findings about
these loans.
So, I wont comment further on these loans, or the level of individual checks Mr Lender
completed before approving these loans, as I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement
about them. But as these loans form part of the borrowing relationship between Ms V and Mr
Lender, they are something I have taken into account when considering her later loans.
Loans 4 and 5
Ms V applied for her fourth loan on the same date she repaid loan 3. It appears that Mr
Lender completed the same level of checks as it had done for her previous three loans.
The adjudicator who initially investigated Ms Vs complaint thought that Mr Lenders checks
should have gone further from loan 3 onwards. This is because Ms Vs monthly repayment
for loan 3 was the highest repayment to date and was equal to a fairly significant portion of
her declared monthly income. So, the adjudicator thought Mr Lender ought to have been
verifying Ms Vs circumstances for loan 3 and any subsequent loans. But as Ms V had not
provided information showing what her circumstances were like, the adjudicator couldnt
conclude that the loans were unaffordable.
But as I have explained above, the adjudicator upheld Ms Vs complaint about loan 4 due to
her overall pattern of borrowing. But I am minded to disagree with our adjudicator as I dont
think a pattern had emerged by the time Ms V took out loan 4 which suggested she was
reliant on Mr Lenders loans.
There were small breaks in lending between loans 1 and 2, and loans 2 and 3 where Ms V
didnt need to borrow from Mr Lender. Whilst these breaks in borrowing were not significant
enough to suggest Ms Vs circumstances had improved, I think these breaks suggested Ms
V wasnt fully reliant on this type of lending  as she didnt need to borrow during these
periods.
However, at this stage of Ms Vs borrowing, I dont think it was enough for Mr Lender to have
just relied on what she told the lender. Ms V was continuing to apply for these loans. So, I
think Mr Lender ought to have continued to verify the information Ms V was telling it for loans
4 and 5 (as the adjudicator suggested it ought to have done for loan 3), by obtaining copies
of her bank statements and / or copies of a payslip and evidence of her outgoings. This
would have enabled Mr Lender to get an accurate picture of Ms Vs actual financial position.
In these circumstances, I would look at what proportionate checks would have shown
Mr Lender at the time of the loan applications. But as Ms V has not provided information
showing what her circumstances were likely to be at the time she took these loans. Im
therefore unable to conclude the loan repayments for loans 4 and 5 were unaffordable or
unsustainable.
So, Im intending to not uphold Ms Vs complaint about loans 4 and 5.
Loans 6 and 7
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 6 and 7 because I
didnt consider it necessary to do so.This is because , in addition to assessing the circumstances behind each individual loan
provided to Ms V, Mr Lender also needed to consider the overall pattern of lending and what
unfolded during the course of its lending relationship with Ms V.
I think Mr Lender was wrong to have provided loans 6 and 7 because Ms V wasnt in a
position to sustainably repay them for the following reasons:
By loan 6, Ms V had been indebted to Mr Lender for around 30 out of 36 months.
She had taken five loans within this period and had deferred her loan repayments on
one occasion on each of her last two loans. So Mr Lender ought to have realised it
was more likely that Ms V was having problems managing her finances.
Ms V was showing signs that she needed to borrow a new loan as soon as she
repaid one. When she applied for loan 6 in the same manner, this was now the third
time she had requested a new loan on the same date she had repaid her previous
one. This suggests that Ms V wasnt making any real improvements to the amount
she owed Mr Lender. She went on to exhibit the same pattern of borrowing for her
next loan.
The amount that Ms V borrowed for loan 6 of £1,000 was her largest loan to date.
Loan 6 was more than two times larger compared to the amount she borrowed for
loan 1. For the remainder of the borrowing relationship, Ms V went on to borrow an
even larger loan of £1,500 which suggested her circumstances were not improving.
I think that Ms V lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan 6
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Vs indebtedness by allowing
her to take credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time coupled with the number of loans which Ms V borrowed was likely
to have had negative implications on Ms Vs ability to access mainstream credit and
so kept her in the market for these loans.
So overall, I think Mr Lender were wrong to approve loans 6 and 7 for these reasons.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision Mr Lender told us it had nothing further to add. Ms 
Vs representatives didnt say whether it agreed, or whether it had anything further to add. 
So, given no new information has been provided, I see no reason to depart from the findings 
I made in the provisional decision. And I still think Mr Lender was wrong to have approved 
loans 6 and 7 for Ms V because it was clear these loans were unsustainable for her. Ive 
outlined below what Mr Lender should do to put things right. 
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not approved loans 6 and 7 as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending, Ms V may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existedbetween her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, Ms V may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that,
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Ms V in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Ms V would more likely than not have taken up any one of
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I think Mr Lender was wrong to approve loans 6 and 7.
So, Mr Lender should do the following to put things right:
Refund all interest, fees and charges paid towards loans 6 and 7
Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms V from the
date Ms V originally made her payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
Any information about loans 6 and 7 is adverse. So, Mr Lender should remove loans
6 and 7 entirely from Ms Vs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender should
give Ms V a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Ms Vs 
complaint in part.
PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) should put things right for Ms V as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman