DRN-4348446
The complaint
Mr W complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under sections 75 and 140 and of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to solar panels, voltage optimiser, heating controller and boiler optimiser (which I will refer to 
as the system). 
What happened
In 2016, Mr W bought the system from a supplier (which Ill call P) using a fixed sum loan 
agreement with Shawbrook Bank Limited, which was repayable over 15 years. 
In 2022, Mr W engaged a claims management company (the CMC), which sent Shawbrook 
a letter of claim alleging that P had misrepresented the system, breached its contract with 
Mr W, and that Mr Ws relationship with Shawbrook was unfair on him because:
There were misleading figures in the quote  specifically the putting it all together 
table, which had the following issues: 
oThe voltage optimiser savings were too high, which was not supported by 
industry reports that were available at the time.
oThere is insufficient evidence to support the claimed benefits of the heating 
controller and boiler optimiser.
oThe electricity savings were too high  they shouldve been based on a self-
consumption rate of 50% (the industry standard), rather than the 75% self-
consumption rate that was used. 
oThe cost of credit was missing from the table, distorting the return on 
investment to make the system more attractive.
The supplier had a predilection for unscrupulous behaviour illustrated by some other 
cases where inflation data had fraudulently or deliberately been manipulated.
The CMC also mentioned in the letter of claim that Mr W was told the system would pay for 
itself within the loan term. So, Ive also considered whether it was likely that he was told that, 
and if so whether that was a misrepresentation. 
Shawbrook did not respond to the claim until after the CMC referred a complaint about this 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. After that Shawbrook issued a final response letter 
which rejected the claim but offered £200 compensation for the time it had taken to respond. 
Our investigator considered the matter and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. The 
CMC asked for a decision from an ombudsman but provided nothing further for me to 
consider. Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
The CMC has made the claim under sections 75 and 140 of the Act. So, I have considered 
these sections in particular, as well as other relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory 
rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. I have read all of the 
CMCs and Shawbrooks submissions and taken all of these into account when making my 
decision.
The quote 
Im satisfied that the quote was provided to Mr W during the sales meeting. It was signed by 
him at that time. So, I think the quote provides important evidence of what was likely 
discussed before Mr W agreed to the purchase. 
The basic price and overall cost of the system
The basic (or cash) price of the system was set out clearly in the quote and the credit 
agreement as £9,381.00. However, the overall cost to Mr W was more, due to him paying for 
the system using an interest-bearing loan.
The quote showed several repayment options, including one over 180 payments of £99.17 
per month, which matches what is shown on the credit agreement. The credit agreement 
also shows the total amount payable would be £17,950.60 including the £100.00 advance 
payment. So, I think that the monthly and total overall cost that Mr W would pay for the 
system was made clear to him when he agreed to buy it.
Allegation  the voltage optimizer saving contradicts reports available at the time of sale and 
was beyond the range of reasonableness
The CMC has suggested the estimated voltage optimiser savings were too high, given 
various reports that were available at the time. However, I understand that Ps method of 
calculating the savings was approved by an industry body, which is more qualified than I am 
to know if it was reasonable at that time. 
How P calculated the savings was also explained in the quote, with reference to a specific 
report that informed its method of calculation. The quote also included the following 
statement alongside the figures for electricity savings from the voltage optimiser:
Savings are dependent on individual circumstances and may be higher or lower than 
those stated above and are based on the manufacturers own figures.
I think there were a number of reports which found that voltage optimisers could provide 
various levels of benefit. Considering those reports, I think that Ps estimated voltage 
optimiser savings in this case are not outside of a reasonable range.
It appears to me that P estimated the benefit of the voltage optimiser based on what it knew 
about the product it was selling, Mr Ws home and how he used electricity. I am not 
persuaded that Ps estimate of the benefit of the voltage optimiser was unreasonable. 
Allegation  there is insufficient evidence to support the claimed benefits of the heating 
controls and boiler optimiser
Overall, at the time of sale there appears to have been little evidence to support or contradict 
the claims made about the heating controls and boiler optimiser. But Im mindful that Ps 
methods were checked by an industry body before P started using them, and no objection to Ps methods was raised at that time. So, I think that, for the time when the quote was 
prepared, I cant reasonably conclude that the estimated benefits were unreasonable.
In addition to this, even if the estimated benefits were unreasonably high, given they made 
up a relatively small proportion of the overall benefit of the system (much less, for example, 
that the income and savings from the solar panels) I think it is unlikely these estimated 
benefits wouldve been enough to induce Mr W into the purchase. 
Allegation  The electricity savings were too high  they shouldve been based on a self-
consumption rate of 50% (the industry standard), rather than the 75% self-consumption rate 
that was used  
To calculate the savings from the solar panels, P used a self-consumption rate of 75%. Self-
consumption rate is the proportion of electricity generated by the solar panels that P 
assumed that Mr W could use himself, rather than exporting it to the grid. My understanding 
is that P tailored the self-consumption rate based on what it knew about the customer and 
how he used electricity.
The CMC has argued that P shouldve used the industry standard self-consumption rate of 
50% when calculating the savings. But I dont think it was unreasonable for P to tailor the 
self-consumption rate based on the information available to it. And I have not seen sufficient 
evidence to persuade me that the self-consumption rate used by P was unreasonable in this 
instance. 
I understand Ps methods were checked by an industry body before P started using them, 
and no objection to Ps methods was raised at that time. So, I think that, for the time when 
the quote was prepared, I cant reasonably conclude that the self-consumption rate was 
unreasonable.
The electricity savings from the solar panels were based on reasonable assumptions about 
the amount of electricity generated by the system and the self-consumption rate. So, I dont 
think those savings estimates were a misrepresentation. That remains the case even if the 
savings have not in fact been as high as estimated. 
The savings will be dependent upon how electricity is used in the home and that is beyond 
Ps control. The quote also included the following clarification in the section about electricity 
bill savings  The amounts saved will depend on the amounts used. So, I dont think the 
estimated savings were presented as being guaranteed, nor do I think they were a 
contractual term.
Allegation - the cost of credit was missing from the putting it all together table, distorting the 
return on investment to make the system appear more attractive
The putting it all together table would have been clearer if the table had included the cost of 
credit. However, I must consider the sale as a whole, not just one table in one of the 
documents that was provided at the time of sale. Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr W 
knew what he was paying for the system, including the cost of credit. This was shown on the 
credit agreement. So, he could compare this to the estimated benefits before deciding to buy 
the system.
In addition to this, the repayments table did incorporate the cost of credit into its illustration 
of the benefits of the system. The estimated performance table also showed it would be 
about 14 years before the overall benefits of the system were expected to exceed the total 
amount payable under the loan agreement.Allegation - the supplier had a predilection for unscrupulous behaviour illustrated by some 
other cases where inflation data had fraudulently or deliberately been manipulated
The CMC has pointed to between 10% and 30% of cases it had seen against P where the 
inflation data used did not match the underlying inflation data it referred to. This does not 
strike me as a systemic issue which would lead me to think that P misled customers in every 
case. 
It appears likely to have been a result of human error rather than fraudulently or deliberately 
done to mislead. Some of those errors resulted in a lower inflation rate being used  thereby 
making the potential benefits of the system appear less than wouldve been the case if no 
error had occurred, which would make the system less attractive to customers, not more.
In this case it appears there is no suggestion that the inflation rate used didnt match the 
underlying data the supplier referred to. So, there was no detriment to Mr W in this case. 
And the quote warned that inflation may be higher or lower than the rate used. 
I think Ps method for calculating an assumed inflation rate was reasonable. And I dont think 
it was a breach of contract or misrepresentation just because actual inflation has not 
matched Ps assumption.
Allegation  Mr W was told the savings and income from the system would pay for the loan 
within the 15-year loan term
It appears that Mr W was most likely told this based on the estimates made at the time of 
sale. The estimated performance over 30 years is shown in a table in the quote. And the 
accumulated grand total benefit is shown to exceed the total amount payable under the 
credit agreement (including the advance payment) by the fourteenth year. 
However, I do not think this is a misrepresentation, because:
It is an estimate of the benefits over a very long time. 
The assumptions used are set out in the quote. 
The assumptions used were reasonable at the time. 
The estimated benefits were not guaranteed. 
Summary
I have not seen evidence that persuades me that P sold the system in a way that was not 
fair or clear, or in a way that was misleading. Or that undue pressure was applied to Mr W. 
I think the information provided to Mr W before he agreed to the purchase showed the cost 
and expected benefits of the system based on reasonable assumptions. The expected 
benefits were set out over 30 years, with warnings that those benefits were not guaranteed. I 
think it is likely that this was discussed with Mr W before he agreed to the purchase.
In summary, my findings are that:
There was no misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of P. As such, I 
dont think Shawbrook would have any liability under section 75 of the Act.
I think it is unlikely that a court would find that there was an unfair relationship 
between Shawbrook and Mr W due to the way P sold the system to him.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman