DRN-3571860
The complaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent him from 
falling victim to an online investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Mr T says that he fell victim to a scam. He 
believed he was dealing with a legitimate trading company N. He was told to fund his 
investments with N in crypto-currency and was directed towards another firm B to enable 
this. 
As a result of the scam between November 2020 and February 2021, Mr T transferred 
around £3,000 from his NatWest account to B. Mr T says this was then sent on to N. Mr T 
says he had problems making a withdrawal of his investment from N and concluded hed 
likely been the victim of a scam. He complained to NatWest in February 2021 and asked that 
they help him get his money back.
NatWest responded to the complaint and said Mr T would need to contact their fraud team, 
they also apologised for a minor service failing. The matter was referred to our service and 
one of our Investigators didnt recommend it should be upheld. In summary she didnt think 
NatWest had made any errors. Mr T disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator for the following 
reasons:
Ive considered the industry guidance Mr T has referenced (including the British 
Standards Institutes (BSI) PAS 17271 (2017)  Protecting Customers from Financial 
Harm from Fraud Code.) But Im not persuaded that the payments Mr T made as a 
result of this scam (either collectively or individually) were so unusual that I think its 
reasonable to have expected NatWest to have intervened at the time. The largest 
individual payment was for £2,700 and Mr Ts statements show he commonly made 
payments of similar and higher values. I dont agree that these payments going to B 
(who were likely a new payee), and who appear to be a legitimate crypto-currency 
exchange, makes a difference to this. 
Mr T submitted a warning from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) that he says 
relates to N and was published in 2015. This seems to be a different N that shares a 
similar name to who Mr T was dealing with. But even if that is incorrect, the payments 
appeared as going to B and NatWest couldnt reasonably have known that the 
ultimate destination for his funds was N in any case. 
Ive not seen evidence that NatWest attempted recovery from B. But given the 
evidence suggests the account with B was in Mr Ts own name and control (and his 
testimony that the funds were sent on), I dont think this was unreasonable. 
NatWest apologised in their complaint response for some minor service failure in not 
responding to Mr T as they should. I consider this fair and dont think NatWest need 
to do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman