DRN-3800878
The complaint
Ms S has complained about the settlement of her claim under a Commercial Fast Food and 
Takeaway Insurance policy with AXIS Specialty Europe SE trading as AXIS Specialty 
London.
Ms S is represented in this complaint but for ease I will refer to her throughout. 
What happened
Ms S runs a takeaway food outlet. In March 2020, Ms S made a claim under the policy as a 
pipe had burst causing water damage to the premises. The shop was closed from 8 March to 
8 November 2020, while repairs were carried out. Ms S also made a claim under the 
business interruption section of the policy, for the financial losses while the shop was closed. 
I understand the repairs to the shop were completed satisfactorily but Ms S is not happy with 
the settlement provided for the business interruption losses. 
Ms S has said the average weekly turnover would have gone up significantly during the 
period that restaurants and large brand takeaways were forced to close as a result of the 
Covid-19 pandemic, compared to the average weekly turnover before the lockdown. Ms S 
has provided evidence from takeaway delivery service platforms which she says prove this. 
Ms S says the weekly turnover of £3,900 (pre March 2020) would have gone up to as much 
as around £7,400 for part of the indemnity period, if it had not been for the water leak. 
Ms S says her losses were around £56,000 in total and AXIS has paid just over £29,000. 
AXIS agreed there was likely to have been an upward trend in business in the period from 
end March to end May 2020, while the big name takeaways were closed, and accounted for 
that in its assessment of the claim, but did not agree that Ms Ss turnover would have 
increased by the amount she claims. 
AXIS says a number of other factors mean the increase in turnover cited by the delivery 
platforms would not necessarily translate to an increase in Ms Ss turnover by the same 
percentage. In particular, it says:
the actual turnover after Ms S reopened but while there were continuing restrictions 
on restaurants and pubs providing dining in services, do not support the figures 
claimed.  
Ms Ss business had a local market unlikely to dramatically increase during 
lockdown, even with the closure of other food outlets. 
Some of the increase in business by the delivery platforms could be the result of  
restaurants and pubs that previously didnt offer takeaways starting to do so in 
lockdown. 
There is no compelling evidence Ms S would have been able to meet the increase in 
demand it says would have been created by the lockdown, including drivers for the 
delivery services. 
Ms S would have had to increase staff costs to meet that increased demand, which 
would need to be accounted for.
While there was probably an increase in online/phone takeaway orders, there would 
have been a reduction in passing trade from people leaving drinking venues.
AXIS says the uplift it has provided is fair and doesnt agree that any further payment is due. 
Ms S remains very unhappy about this and has also made a number of points. I have 
considered everything she has said but her main points are: 
The turnover achieved after she reopened in November 2020 was lower than it would 
have been had the leak not happened. Because she was closed for 34 weeks, she 
had to re-establish a market presence, including with her prominence on the delivery 
platforms. So those figures do not justify the assessment of the turnover during the 
period she was closed. 
AXIS has not provided any factual evidence to support its refusal to increase the 
settlement. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He did not recommend the complaint be 
upheld as he did not think there was any evidence that AXIS had not made reasonable 
calculations of the estimated loss during the indemnity period. 
Ms S does not accept the Investigators assessment. She says he did not comment on the 
evidence presented about the business trends. AXIS has made arguments which are untrue 
and unsubstantiated and which the Investigator has accepted as fact. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ss policy covers the gross profit lost due to the reduction in turnover as a consequence 
of damage to its property. The policy says this is the amount by which the gross profit 
during the indemnity period falls short of the annual gross profit. The policy also allows for 
adjustments to be made for any trends or variations that would have affected the business 
without the damage occurring. 
It is almost impossible to know exactly what Ms Ss turnover would have been during the 
period 8 March  November 2020, if she had been open. As the Investigator explained, it is 
not for this service to calculate exactly what the loss is. Instead, I have to consider whether 
the calculations AXIS made to establish its offer of settlement were fair and reasonable and 
whether Ms S has provided sufficient evidence that the settlement should be increased. 
The average weekly turnover before the water damage occurred was around £3,900, based 
on the previous three months or so. AXIS used this figure for the two weeks after the water 
damage but before the lockdown, which I think that is fair and doesnt seem to be disputed.
For the next 11 weeks (which is when other big brand takeaways were shut) AXIS applied 
an uplift and assumed average turnover of £5,000, whereas Ms S thinks it should have been 
£6,000 per week. 
AXIS then assumed turnover of £3,900 the same as pre-lockdown for the remaining claim 
period, with a slight adjustment for post recovery for November 2020. Ms S thinks the 
turnover during this period would have been £6,500 to just over £7,400. 
Ms S has provided evidence of increased business by the takeaway delivery platforms in her 
location but this does not automatically mean her turnover would have increased by the 
same percentage. I do not agree that the evidence Ms S has provided is incontrovertible 
proof that her turnover would have increased to the extent she claims. I think the points AXIS has raised are not unreasonable and there are a number of factors 
that might have affected the turnover actually achieved, if Ms S had been able to open 
during the lockdown. In particular, I have not seen any evidence to establish whether she 
would have been able to meet such a high increase in demand. And it does seem likely that 
there would have been a reduction in passing trade (which was a significant part of her pre-
loss turnover) and her turnover would have been affected by restaurants and pubs providing 
takeaway services. 
Ms S has said AXIS has not provided documentary proof to substantiate these things but I 
do not think they can be discounted. And as stated it is not for me to assess the loss of gross 
profit but to consider whether AXIS as acted fairly and reasonably. 
Having considered everything, I am not persuaded Ms S has established that AXISs offer is 
unreasonable or incorrect.  I do not therefore consider that it needs to make any further 
payment in settlement of this claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman