DRN-2736685
The complaint
Mr K complains about Corgi Homeplan Ltds handling of his Home Emergency Insurance 
claim.
All references to Corgi also include its agents.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Corgis engineer initially visited in January 2020. I can see from its notes, Corgi 
needed to obtain a part which meant it would need to revisit to repair the leak
Mr K called Corgi following the engineers visit. He said though the leak was still 
being contained by a bucket, the speed in which it was filling up had increased. Corgi 
tried to contact its engineer but was unable to reach them
Mr K asked Corgi what he should do if the speed of the leak increased. Corgi 
responded he should turn off the stopcock and stop the water supply at the mains
Mr K was aware the leak had got faster than it was initially, and he could have 
mitigated the damage by turning off the main water supply overnight and potentially 
prevented the damage caused. But I also think Corgi could have asked further 
questions and provided clearer guidance when Mr K called
The purpose of Mr Ks call to Corgi was regarding the leak and to ask for advice 
about maintaining it. Corgi didnt advise him to turn off the water supply there and 
then  and it didnt ask any further questions when Mr K explained the pace of the 
leak had increased (such as how quickly the leak was filling up the bucket)
So while I think Mr K could have done more to prevent further damage to his 
property, I also think this could have been potentially avoided if Corgi provided 
clearer information about turning off the water supply during the call in January 2020
Putting things right
Mr K said damage has been caused to the ground floor ceiling as a result of the leak. 
Considering what Ive said above, I think its reasonable Corgi contribute 50% towards the 
repairs of the affected areas. Corgi will be entitled to ask for sufficient proof of the costs, 
such as VAT receipts, incurred by Mr K before it provides its contribution.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint
To put things right, I direct Corgi Homeplan Ltd to act as I have set out above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman