DRN-2878786
The complaint
Mr R complains that W E Bedford Insurance Services (Wimbledon) Ltd  trading as Bedford 
Insurance Group (Bedford) wont accept his no claims bonus (NCB) for a motor insurance 
policy he took out.
What happened
Mr R applied for a motor insurance policy through Bedford  an insurance broker. He did so 
via an online comparison site. When applying he stated he had nine years of NCB and made 
no claims within the last five years. Based on the premium quoted, Mr R took out the policy. 
Bedford asked Mr R for proof of the NCB. A letter was provided saying that he had made no 
claims on his company car policy and had made one non-fault claim within the last five 
years. Because of this, Bedford explained that the policy underwriter wasnt willing to accept 
this as valid NCB due to the fact that it hadnt been his own policy. And it noted that this had 
also been built up in another country, which also made it unacceptable to the underwriter. 
Furthermore, it noted that he had made a claim, and even though it wasnt a fault claim, the 
question hed been asked on the comparison website asked about any claims, not just fault 
claims.
Bedford told Mr R that his premium would increase. Mr R wasnt happy with this and 
complained to Bedford. It explained that it wouldnt honour the original premium, but it would 
waive the £90 admin fee it usually charged when polices were cancelled. But Mr R would 
have to pay for the amount of time the policy had been in place until it was cancelled.  
Mr R cancelled his policy and referred his complaint to us where one of our investigators 
looked into it. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He explained that any 
complaint about whether the NCB should be accepted or not would need to be directed to 
the insurance underwriter as it was the underwriter who set the rules and criteria of the 
policy. He was satisfied the questions asked by Bedford when Mr R applied for the policy 
were clear and that Bedford had made it clear what the requirements were for the NCB to be 
valid. So, he didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. So its been passed 
to me to consider and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator, and for the same reasons.
When applying for the policy, Mr R was asked how many years NCB he had. He answered 
nine. The comparison website provided further information on this question which makes it 
clear that NCB is awarded for insurance held in the individuals own name for a private car. 
Mr R previously had a company car and the insurance wasnt held in his name. The 
information provided also noted that most companies wont accept NCB which has been 
gained in a country other than the UK, as Mr Rs had. I think the information he was provided 
with makes it sufficiently clear that Mr R wasnt entitled to any NCB. 
Mr R says he was given incorrect information regarding why the premium increased. He 
says it was because of a non-fault claim. Its possible he was provided with incorrect 
information. But this doesnt change my opinion on the complaint. Im satisfied the premium 
was increased mainly due to the NCB not being accepted by the underwriter. But I also note 
that the question Mr R had been asked was whether hed had any claims in the last five 
years, regardless of blame. So, he did answer this incorrectly, and its possible this claim, 
regardless of being non-fault, had some impact on the premium as well. 
I understand why, given the significant price increase, Mr R didnt want to continue with the 
insurance policy. Overall, Im satisfied Bedford asked clear questions when Mr R applied for 
the policy. The decision not to accept the NCB and to increase the premiums was the 
underwriters, and as such, not something I can consider within this complaint.  
I think Bedfords offer to waive the £90 admin fee for Mr R cancelling it was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. It was entitled to charge for the time Mr R had the policy in 
place, as Mr R wouldve been covered during that time. Im not going to ask Bedford to do 
anything further. 
As our investigator explained, if Mr R is unhappy about the unwillingness to accept his NCB 
or the increase in premium, he would need to direct this complaint to the underwriter in the 
first instance. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman