DRN-2921528
The complaint
Mr A complains about the poor service he received from Revolut when trying to activate and 
access his bank account.
What happened
Mr A opened an account with Revolut in 2018. 
To fully activate his account, Mr A needed to deposit a minimum of 10 Euros into the 
account. He did this in February 2020 but was unable to gain access to his account. 
So, he complained.
Revolut told Mr A his account was being reviewed. It said it needed some time to 
look into his case and it would then get back to him with a resolution. Mr A wasnt 
happy with this and he complained to this service.
Mr A contacted Revolut again in April 2020 using its online chat facility. Revolut said 
a duplicate account had been created and, as it only allowed one account per user, it 
needed to confirm his identity and terminate one account.
Mr A provided evidence of his Maltese identity and Revolut made the necessary 
changes to his account. It said he now had one account, which was fully operational.
Our investigator was satisfied Revolut had given Mr A access to his account and 
didnt think it needed to do anything more.
Mr A remains unhappy. He said Revolut wasnt providing him with the full services he 
expected. He provided further information to show hes being discriminated by British 
and European Union institutions, including its banks, which he believes are trying to 
disrupt his employment as a diplomat.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for these reasons:
When Mr A first opened an account with Revolut, he provided a copy of his Pakistani 
identity document for verification purposes.  
The terms and conditions of Mr As account says Revolut will ask for information 
about him to check his identity and to meet its legal and regulatory requirements.
When Mr A activated his account in February 2020 he did so using different details 
and so I think it was fair and reasonable for Revolut to ask Mr A to confirm his 
identity. 
As Mr A wanted to open an account in Malta, he needed to provide evidence of his 
Maltese (or other EU) identity. Once hed done that, and confirmed his contact 
details, Revolut gave Mr A access to his account.
Mr A says his account isnt working as hed expected but he hasnt given any further 
details. Revolut has said Mr As account is fully functional with no restrictions. Its 
also explained how he can contact Revolut if he has any further problems with his 
account. I think thats a reasonable response to Mr As concerns. And without any 
further evidence of the problems Mr A is facing, I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Revolut to do anything more.
Mr A has said hes been discriminated by British and EU institutions, including 
Revolut. My role is to consider Mr As complaint about Revolut and so I can only 
comment on its actions to see if its treated Mr A fairly and reasonably. And I think it 
has. Although Mr A has given us a number of documents to support his case of 
discrimination, I cant see any evidence of discrimination by Revolut. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Revolut Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman