DRN-3441076
The complaint
Mr M complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited declined his claim for the loss of his watch, 
under his home contents insurance policy. 
Mr M is represented in his complaint by Mr H. But I will refer to Mr M in my decision for ease 
of reading. 
What happened
In July 2020 Mr M lost his watch. He says this happened when he was out socialising shortly 
after the pandemic lockdown restrictions had ended. He contacted the places he could 
remember visiting, as well as a taxi firm he had used, but the watch wasnt found. Mr M says 
he also contacted the police and was given a reference number. 
Mr M made a claim to Fairmead. It arranged for him to be interviewed via a video call. The 
business subsequently declined his claim. It did so based on two endorsements detailed in 
Mr Ms policy schedule that it thought he hadnt complied with. It says he hadnt provided 
evidence to show the value of the watch in line with the policy endorsements. And he hadnt 
had the watch inspected by a competent jeweller, which was required at least every three 
years, again in line with the policy endorsements. 
Mr M thought this was unfair and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
upheld his complaint. He thought Mr M had reasonably proved that he owned the watch. He 
didnt think the endorsements were clearly worded enough to show that Mr M had failed to 
provide evidence of the value of the watch. He also didnt think the endorsement was clear 
as to when the watch shouldve been inspected. 
Our investigator thought Fairmead should cover Mr Ms claim up to £30,000, which is the 
value of the watch confirmed in the schedule. 
Fairmead didnt agree with this outcome. It says the valuation Mr M provided was obtained 
after he referred his complaint to our service and that it doesnt consider the condition of the 
watch. Fairmead says the jeweller based its valuation on the model and serial number. It 
doesnt think a valuation is acceptable where the watch wasnt inspected. It says the watch 
couldve been in a poor state of repair and valued at less than the value in the policy 
schedule.
Fairmead asked for an ombudsman to consider Mr Ms complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Let me explain.
Ive read the schedule and terms relating to Mr Ms policy. He has cover for loss of personal 
possessions outside his home. He has two items specified in his policy schedule one of 
which is the watch he reported lost. The sum insured for this watch is £30,000.
Mr M says he lost the watch whilst he was out socialising In July 2020. I note Fairmead says 
it had some concerns about the circumstances of Mr Ms loss, which is why it appointed a 
specialist claims team to investigate. My remit here is to consider whether Fairmead acted 
reasonably in declining to cover Mr Ms loss for the reasons it gave. 
Mr M explains that his late father gave him the watch as a gift in 2017. When asked by 
Fairmead he was able to provide the box the watch came in and the manufacturers 
international guarantee card. I have also seen several different photos, taken on different 
occasions that I think clearly show Mr M wearing the watch. Based on this I think hes 
reasonably been able to show that he owned the watch. I note Fairmead didnt dispute this in 
its letter declining the claim.    
The first endorsement Fairmead relied on to decline Mr Ms claim says:
SEC09: Evidence of Value
In the event of a claim for loss or damage to a specified item(s) YOU will need to provide US 
with evidence of the value for the item, pair, set or COLLECTION.    
And the policy terms say:
If YOU claim for any specified item in YOUR SCHEDULE, YOU will need to provide proof of 
the items value. WE recommend YOU retain photographs, instruction booklets, copies of 
valuations and receipts.
For specified VALUABLES WE recommend YOU obtain a professional valuation at least 
once every 3 years.
Fairmead says that Mr M had failed to satisfy this endorsement. It says he has provided no 
information to support the value of the watch. 
I can see from the interview report that Mr Ms mother arranged the insurance policy on his 
behalf. He advised that she had phoned a jeweller to obtain a valuation for the watch so this 
information could be provided. He also told Fairmead that this is how a valuation could be 
obtained. 
Mr M contacted a Jewellers after he had referred his complaint to our service. The jeweller 
provided two valuations of the watch he lost, based on the model and serial number. The 
letter from the jeweller notes that the watch was made from 18ct gold with baguette cut 
diamonds. The first valuation given was for the current second-hand value, which it put at 
£70,000. The second was a valuation of the watch at the time it was bought in July 2019, 
which it says was £32,000.
I acknowledge the jeweller provided a valuation based on the model and serial numbers, not 
a physical inspection of the watch. So, this doesnt take into consideration its condition. But I 
dont think the policy terms require this. Similarly, the endorsement and terms dont specify 
when the watch should be valued. 
We queried with the broker that arranged the policy what it told Mr M, or his representative. It 
says it explained that a valuation was required in the event of a claim. Mr M also confirms 
that he wasnt asked to arrange a valuation of the watch when the policy was agreed. So, I dont think he was reasonably made aware that a valuation had to be arranged at the time 
the policy was first agreed.
The terms say a professional valuation is recommended to be obtained at least once every 
three years. Mr Ms policy began in July 2019. It was well within this three-year period when 
he made his claim.  
Based on the policy wording I dont think Mr M failed to provide what was required. If, as 
Fairmead suggests, Mr M should have obtained a professional valuation of his watch earlier 
than he did, I dont think it made this clear in its policy terms. So, I dont think its fair for it to 
decline his claim for this reason. 
The second endorsement Fairmead relied on to decline the claim says:
SEC08: Maintenance of Jewellery and Watches
There is no cover for loss or damage under PERSONAL POSSESSIONS for individual items 
of items of jewellery or watches in excess of £5,000 unless:
- The item(s) are inspected at least every 3 years by a competent jeweller
- Any defects in clasps, mounting and settings are rectified immediately
- YOU must retain evidence of the inspection(s) and repairs.
I have considered this wording in detail. 
Mr Ms policy began in July 2019. I cant see how he would be obliged to comply with these 
conditions prior to the inception of his policy with Fairmead. It follows that Mr M was 
expected to arrange an inspection of his watch, with a competent jeweller, within three years 
of the policy inception date. This means by July 2022. Mr Ms loss occurred in July 2020, 
which was well before this. 
We asked the broker if Mr M was given more specific information as to when the three-year 
inspection period began. Ive considered the information its sent but it doesnt show that any 
further clarification was given to Mr M. 
If Fairmead expected Mr M to arrange an inspection earlier, I dont think this was made clear 
to him in the policy endorsement and terms. I also acknowledge Mr Ms comments that 
Covid lockdowns meant he wasnt able to arrange an inspection and he was dealing with his 
fathers death in April 2020.  
In considering all of this I dont think Fairmead treated Mr M fairly when declining his claim 
for the reasons it gave. Because of this it should reconsider his claim under the remaining 
terms and conditions without relying on the endorsements it specified. The policy specifies 
the cover provided is up to £30,000. Its fair that this is the maximum payable when the claim 
is reconsidered. 
Finally, Mr M complains that Fairmead took around 11 months to return the box and 
documents for his watch. Im sorry he is upset about the time this took and efforts he made 
to retrieve this, but this isnt something that was raised in his complaint to Fairmead. So, I 
cant consider it here.My final decision
My intention is to uphold this complaint and require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
reconsider Mr Ms claim for his lost watch under the remaining terms and conditions 
of his policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman