DRN-4416115
The complaint
Ms N complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) refused to refund her payments after 
she made a claim to them under the Direct Debit Indemnity scheme.
What happened
Ms N contacted Barclays to query payments from her account which began in 2019 as she 
had no recollection of them and could identify what they were for. A Direct Debit indemnity 
claim was raised but Barclays refused to refund the payment. Ms N complained to Barclays 
about the refusal. It didnt uphold her complaint. It told Ms N that it could only provide a 
refund of Direct Debits where the customer has proved the Originator had made an error in 
collecting payments from the account. It said it had looked to see if the originator had made 
an error but couldn't see that was the case. So, Barclays said it couldnt agree with Ms Ns 
complaint as a result.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. On the information available she didnt agree 
that an error had been identified. And based on the amount of time since the payments were 
made, she thought it reasonable to say Ms N may not recall agreeing the payments. She 
thought Barclays suggestion to contact the originator was fair and provided Ms N with their 
contact details and references.
Ms N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I have sympathy with the situation Ms N finds herself in. I can appreciate this has 
been a difficult time for her. As much as I understand her frustrations, Ive got to look at 
whether Barclays did anything wrong. And, having reviewed all the evidence here I dont 
think they did. Ill explain my reasons.
Ms Ns told us she didnt recognise payments to an originator which began being taken, 
weekly, from her account in April 2019. She said she hadnt discovered the payments until 
recently as due to her circumstances she hadnt been checking bank statements. But when 
she did notice she queried them with Barclays and raised a Direct Debit indemnity claim
Barclays complied with that request but wouldnt raise a Direct Debit indemnity claim under 
the terms of the Direct Debit Guarantee. Ive considered whether that was a reasonable 
response.
The Direct Debit Guarantee is set out in full online and provides details of the circumstances 
under which consumers can raise a claim. The information provided explains the guarantee 
comes into play when something goes wrong with a Direct Debit payment. The examples 
given are of the wrong amount being collected or the payment being taken on the wrong 
date. It says: 
In the rare event that an error is made in the payment of your Direct Debit*, either by the 
organisation or your bank or building society, you are entitled to a full and immediate refund 
from your bank or building society. 
*The Guarantee covers Direct Debit payments. It cannot be used to address contractual 
disputes between you and the billing organisation. 
The guidance provided specifically explains that the guarantee cant be used to address 
contractual disputes with the billing organisation who originates the payment. I think thats 
important. 
Ms N isnt seeking a refund on the basis that the payments themselves were incorrectly 
administered. Ms N is seeking to receive refunds on the basis that she cant recognise the 
originator or recall what the payment is for. In my view, thats in line with a contractual 
dispute on the basis of whether the payment was legitimately due rather than whether a 
particular payment was processed correctly or not. So, Im not satisfied the terms of the 
Direct Debit Guarantee covers the request Ms N made. 
I appreciate Ms Ns told Barclays shes been unsuccessful in her attempts to contact the 
originator. I would repeat the suggestion of both our investigator and Barclays to contact the 
originator to query the payments in the first instance. Our investigator has set out full contact 
details for the payment originator and the relevant references to Ms N in her view, so I shant 
repeat them here.
I appreciate Ms N will be unhappy with my findings but, the basis of the information provided 
in the Direct Debit Guarantee, I havent been persuaded Barclays treated her unfairly when it 
declined her Direct Debit indemnity claim. So, I dont think Barclays have done anything 
wrong and cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman