DRN-1388676
 
The complaint
Mr S says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2000, Mr S applied for a mortgage with Nationwide. It sold him PPI to designed to protect 
his monthly repayments if he couldnt work because of disability or unemployment. It also 
included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr S didnt agree, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr S case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive carefully considered Mr S comments about the choices he was, or wasnt, given during 
the sale. But Im mindful that the PPI was sold more almost 20 years ago  in my view 
making it less likely hed be able to accurately recall any discussions that might have taken 
place at the time.
Neither partys been able to provide much by way of paperwork from the sale. And thats not 
surprising considering how much times passed both since then and since the mortgage 
ended and the PPI was cancelled.
I understand Mr S frustration at the lack of evidence supporting Nationwides position. But, 
equally, there just isnt enough evidence to support what Mr S says either. In the absence of 
any persuasive evidence to show otherwise, I see no reason to consider that Mr S wasnt 
aware of the PPI at the time or that he didnt choose to take it out knowing it was optional.
From experience of how it sold PPI generally, and from the available information, I dont 
consider it likely that Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr S. I take his point that it was 
unlikely he asked for it and I agree it was probably offered to him. But thats not the same as 
Nationwide assessing his demands and needs and specifically recommending the PPI to 
him. That still meant Nationwide had to give him clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the PPI so that he could make a properly informed choice about whether to take it.
There might have been areas in which Nationwide didnt give Mr S the information it should 
have done. But that, in itself, isnt enough for me to uphold the complaint. Id also need to 
find that any failings made a difference to his decision to take the PPI. Taking into account Mr S circumstances, I dont think better information would have put him off taking out the 
PPI. I say that because, for example:
It seems Mr S would have been eligible for the PPI. And it doesnt look as though 
hed have been significantly affected by its main exclusions or limitations. 
Mr S says he was entitled to sick pay and had some savings he could have relied on. 
But the PPI benefits would have been paid on top of that and for up to 24 months per 
claim. It covered him for unemployment too. If he had any other means available to 
him, including family help, the PPI would have allowed him to use them towards 
covering his other living costs if he wasnt working. So, I think hed have found the 
extra security the PPI gave him to be useful, especially as it helped protect borrowing 
secured against his home.
I havent seen anything to suggest Mr S would have found the PPI premium 
unaffordable. And, if Mr S had decided he didnt want the PPI anymore, he could 
have cancelled it at any time and at no extra cost.
 
Overall, I dont believe Mr S has lost out because of how Nationwide sold him the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman