DRN-2941531
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Nationwide Building Society made it difficult for her to close her 
account and was told wrong information about Nationwides exceptions process.
Mrs S is represented by her son in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill
refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mrs S herself.  
What happened
Mrs S suffered a bereavement and wished to close her accounts with Nationwide. She wrote 
a letter to Nationwides bereavement team requesting for her accounts to be closed. The 
bereavement team responded to Mrs S that in order to close her accounts she would need 
to either send another letter to Nationwide (as their department could not action her request) 
or visit a branch to do so.
As Mrs S was unable to visit a branch due to health issues this wasnt an option for her. Mrs 
Ss son tried to help resolve the issue. He contacted Nationwide and spoke with a number of 
operators who informed him that the only way Mrs S could close her accounts is either via a 
branch or via Nationwides website.
Mrs S complained to Nationwide. She said that there was a serious flaw in Nationwides 
process which disadvantaged elderly members which may not have access to the internet to 
close their account and also the disabled, who couldnt visit the branch to close their 
account. Mrs S also complained of poor customer service from Nationwide on the telephone 
calls 
Nationwide upheld Mrs Ss complaint and paid £125 compensation. They explained they had 
an exceptions process where they could accept closure of accounts via a letter. They said 
that while the bereavement department were correct that they couldnt close down Mrs Ss 
accounts with a letter, they could have done more to help Mrs S and they could have spoken 
to their manager and arranged a digital copy of the letter to be sent to the account closures 
team. Nationwide explained that they would close her accounts and they would send a 
cheque out in the post.
In relation to the poor customer service, Nationwide apologised and said that they agreed 
the call handlers couldve done better which couldve resulted in Mrs Ss request to close her 
accounts to be completed sooner as they gave incorrect information about being able to 
close her accounts by letter.
Mrs S responded to Nationwides final response letter. In summary she said that the 
exceptions process does not appear on their website, theres a need for widespread training 
on the exceptions process as there were a number of staff who werent familiar with this 
process, all members should be made aware of the letter process at the outset if they are 
trying to close their account and this should be displayed on Nationwides website (wording 
was also suggested for the website).
The Nationwide complaints handler responded and informed Mrs S that he passed the 
comments to Nationwides root cause analysis team, as they are responsible for 
implementing change on Nationwides processes and website content.
Mrs S brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold her complaint. 
He said that the compensation that Nationwide paid was fair and reasonable for Nationwide 
failing to follow an internal exceptions procedure which would have closed her accounts 
down sooner. He explained that Nationwide had acknowledged there is a training need and 
that our service cant tell a business how to run their procedures including what to put on 
their website.
Mrs S asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary she said she wanted Nationwide to confirm they had given fresh training to their 
staff with validation from our service that this has happened, for Nationwide to share the 
outcome of their root cause analysis with our service and then our service could share this 
with her. Mrs S also wanted to know the reasons why they wouldnt change the wording on 
their website, a nominal compensation for the investment of the time put into the complaint, 
she asked questions about our specific service and our powers that we have and if there are 
any other bodies which could look into the matter for her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has made a number of points to both Nationwide and this service and Ive considered
and read everything shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
Mrs S asked a number of questions about the role of our service and what we can and cant 
look at. Before I reached my decision, I asked our investigator to explain several things to 
Mrs S. This included that our services remit doesnt extend to evaluating Nationwides 
training for elderly or vulnerable customers, the investigation of Nationwides root cause 
analysis and the validation of the training or root cause analysis as these arent regulated 
activities. Our investigator passed onto Nationwide her comments about these issues and 
our investigator will feedback any responses from Nationwide to Mrs S separately. Our 
investigator also explained that it would be the role of the regulator which could investigate 
the parts of the complaint which I am unable to and he provided contact details for the 
Financial Conduct Authority who may be able to look into some of these things for Mrs S. 
Im persuaded if Nationwide had acted upon Mrs Ss instruction to close down her accounts 
as she originally instructed them to then this would have resolved the matter there and then. 
But instead of the staff seeing if they could help Mrs S close her accounts as she had 
instructed them to by letter, they told her she would need to write another letter or go into the 
branch to do this. As Nationwide have confirmed, the staff member could have resolved this 
by speaking to their manager and following an exceptions process. So Im satisfied that the 
staff have unnecessarily inconvenienced Mrs S by giving her this information, even if the 
bereavement department couldnt directly close down her accounts.
Ive also considered the experience Mrs S had in talking with several staff members after 
she was given the original information. Here, the staff said that Mrs S would need to close 
the account down online or in branch. But this wasnt practical for Mrs S to do so. Based on 
this, Im persuaded that this information would be distressing for Mrs S to hear, especially as 
she was experiencing a very difficult time. Both parties agree that Nationwide did not follow their exceptions process in allowing Mrs S 
to close her account down via a letter. Im satisfied Nationwide have acknowledged this and 
compensated Mrs S for the impact this would have had on her. But Im persuaded that the 
level of compensation was fair. I say this as Im persuaded that the £125 paid recognises the 
poor service given and the inconvenience and distress Mrs S will have suffered as a result of 
Nationwide not initially following their exceptions process and then giving her incorrect 
information. If Nationwide had not upheld Mrs Ss complaint, then I would have broadly 
awarded the same compensation that they did pay.
Ive considered what Mrs S has said about Nationwides exceptions process and the 
information about this on their website. As she is aware, I cant ask Nationwide to amend 
their processes. And I know Mrs S strongly feels that the exceptions process being 
advertised on their website could save other members experiencing what she did. But I can 
only consider the individual merits of her complaint and not what could happen in the future 
to other members.
But Im persuaded that in Mrs Ss situation, an advertisement on Nationwides website of the 
exceptions process would not have made a difference to what happened to her. I say this as 
she had already written Nationwide a letter to request the closure of her accounts. Im 
satisfied that it was the failure to action this request which caused the problem and not that it 
wasnt advertised on their website. 
Our investigator shared Nationwides view on the exceptions process from a communication 
they sent Mrs S: I confirm that the process to close your account via a letter isn't on our 
website, the reason for this is because it's an exceptions process. Our process is for 
members to close their accounts on line or in branch; however, we know that these options 
sometimes aren't viable for elderly or disabled members, which is why we have the letter 
process as an exception, and it's something which all of our employees should be aware of.
It seems that, based on your experience, more widespread training could be required, to
remind agents of our exceptions process. So I agree with our investigator that this suggests 
Nationwide have decided to look closely at its own internal processes to try to ensure that 
their call handlers have training regarding the exceptions process for account closures.
As our investigator has explained to Mrs S, additional compensation is not usually awarded 
for the time it takes to put together a complaint. I know that Mrs S and her son has spent a 
lot of time seeking that Nationwide change their processes. And while I understand the good 
intentions of them doing so to help other potentially vulnerable members, as Ive already 
mentioned, Im persuaded the compensation Nationwide have paid Mrs S compensates her 
for the errors Nationwide have made for failing to follow their exceptions process. So I wont 
be asking them to pay any more compensation for the time Mrs S and her son has spent on 
matters after their final response. 
I know Mrs S has had a difficult time personally this year and Ive read about her personal 
circumstances. Im sorry for her loss. I can assure her I havent made this decision lightly. 
But it follows I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman