DRN-1862166
The complaint
Miss N  on behalf of Company G  complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) 
mishandled her business interruption claim.
Allianz use intermediaries to manage claims on their behalf, so any reference to the insurer 
within this decision should be read as including the acts or omissions of such intermediaries.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I will not repeat everything 
again here. But in summary, Miss N submitted a business interruption claim with Allianz on 
25 July 2019 after she fell ill and was unable to run her business. She has complained about 
their handling of the claim. Her points of complaint include, but are not strictly limited to:
Allianz incorrectly declined the claim in July 2019, and again in August 2019. The 
claim was only accepted after Miss N appointed solicitors to explain to the insurer 
why the claim was covered under the policy terms;
The delays caused by Allianz in the claims progression and payment of the 
indemnity, which caused financial loss to the business and significant distress to 
Miss N;
Allianz have unfairly declined her request to pay accountancy fees she had to pay in 
order to provide evidence of her business accounts required for her business 
interruption claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ns complaint. She didnt think there had been any 
significant delays caused by Allianz, and that the compensation they had offered for the 
elements of poor claim handling that could be identified was fair in the circumstances. The 
investigator also did not consider the insurer to be liable to cover the costs of the 
accountancy fees. 
Miss N and her representatives disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it, as I consider the compensation offered to be fair. Ill explain why. 
There have been several final responses issued in relation to this complaint, and Im aware 
that further points of dispute have arisen after the complaint was referred to this service  
including whether the amount of indemnity offered is correct, as well as information that was 
requested by the loss adjuster on 23 October 2019  which I understand are being 
considered separately from this complaint. So, I will not be commenting on those points 
within this final decision which, for the avoidance of doubt, concerns the issues/points raised 
up until 5 December 2019 and responded to by Allianz. 
Claim decision
Miss N has complained about Allianzs decision to wrongfully decline her claim when she 
first reported it in July 2019, and then again in August 2019 when it was subsequently 
reviewed. 
Allianz have acknowledged that they were quick to decline Miss Ns claim from the outset 
when they told her there was no cover available, for which they offered £75 compensation 
for the inconvenience caused to Company G as the policyholder. 
The claim was reviewed shortly after and a loss adjuster appointed in August 2019. From 
this point, I appreciate that Allianz could have considered the matter more efficiently as they 
could have requested the necessary medical evidence they required at the outset, which 
would have expedited the review and avoided the claim being declined again. But like the 
investigator before me, Im not persuaded this ultimately caused financial loss or 
inconvenience such that it would warrant further compensation. The claim was eventually 
accepted in October 2019 after Miss N submitted the necessary evidence required which, in 
the circumstances, I think was reasonable for Allianz to request in order to validate the claim 
in light of the terms and conditions. And given that the burden of proving a claim falls to the 
policyholder it was for Miss N to source and provide this information to sufficiently 
demonstrate that the claim was covered under the policy terms and conditions.
Miss N says that her claim would not have been covered had she not appointed her 
solicitors to represent her and set out clearly how the cover operated to Allianz. So she 
submits that the insurer should cover her legal costs because she does not believe the 
correct decision would have been without the solicitors involvement.
However, it is not within the remit of this service to punish a financial business based on 
hypothetical scenarios and what could have happened. I am only concerned with what did 
happen and whether this was the operative cause of any actual loss or harm. I appreciate 
that Allianz initially took a restrictive interpretation of the specified illness clause, but after 
further representations from Miss Ns representatives they agreed that cover did apply. And 
given that the correct decision was ultimately made, Im not persuaded there has been any 
prejudice or detriment as the claim was subsequently indemnified once the insurer had all 
the information/evidence they required to confirm cover. If Allianz did maintain their decision 
to decline the claim, Miss N could have complained  as she had done previously  and 
referred the matter to this service for an independent review of their decision without 
instructing solicitors. So I do not consider it would be fair and reasonable to direct Allianz to 
pay Miss Ns legal fees in these circumstances. 
Delays
Miss N and her representatives say that Allianz unreasonably delayed the progression of her 
claim and payment of the indemnity, which has had a detrimental impact on her business 
and reputation. 
After Allianz received all the necessary evidence they required to assess the claim, cover 
was agreed on 18 October 2019, and they received a signed mandate from Miss N allowing 
her solicitors to deal with the claim on 28 October 2019. I appreciate that the decision to 
grant indemnity could have been arrived at sooner and that there were minor delays in this 
process. But an insurer is entitled to test a claim against the policy requirements to ensure it 
falls within the scope of cover  for which they can also request supporting evidence. And in 
the circumstances, I dont consider there to have been any significant delays that would warrant a further award of compensation.  
An interim payment of £4,000 (based on £1,000 per month from July to October 2019) was 
offered by Allianz, and Miss Ns solicitors responded on 31 October 2019 stating that she 
would be prepared to accept it, but only on the condition that it was paid entirely without 
prejudice to the value of the full claim. They said that if these terms could not be met then 
the offer would not be accepted. 
Allianz emailed Miss Ns solicitors on 4 November 2019 stating that the previous mandate 
provided was only in relation to communication with the solicitor and did not mention whether 
they could accept payment on her behalf. So the insurer requested that she provide a signed 
irrevocable mandate that confirmed payments should be made to the solicitors client 
account rather than Miss N directly. I appreciate this was frustrating for Miss N, but in my 
experience it is standard for an insurer to require such a mandate to protect their position 
should the funds not reach the insured once they have been paid to the nominated account. 
A further mandate was provided on 4 November 2019 but the solicitors said they could only 
make it irrevocable up to receipt of the interim payment. Allianz responded on 15 November 
2019 stating that they would check the position and if the provided mandate was enough for 
them to release the funds. They have since conceded that they should have accepted the 
mandate dated 4 November 2019 as enough to make payment, but that their loss adjuster 
had concerns about making sure the payment went to the right account. 
ICOBS 8.1.1 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook states that an insurer must settle 
claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed. In this instance, settlement terms (and 
where the payment should be made) were agreed on 4 November 2019, and I agree that the 
actions of Allianz have caused an avoidable delay, as the interim payment could have been 
made at this point rather than 3 December 2019. But Im not persuaded that this delay of 
around four weeks is the proximate cause of the significant business losses Miss N is now 
claiming from Allianz in damages. 
For example, Miss N says that the delay led to the lease being lost and her being evicted 
from the business premises. But I can see that lease was up for renewal on 12 May 2019, 
which was around two months before Miss N was diagnosed with her illness, and that she 
had already instructed solicitors to negotiate the renewal. So I cannot fairly hold Allianz 
responsible for the lease being lost as a result of her absence due to illness, as it seems this 
situation could have ultimately been avoided if it had been dealt with sooner. 
I also cant ignore that the losses Miss N has described, including the ultimate decline of 
Company G, would have likely always occurred following her illness and being unable to 
operate the business. So Im not persuaded that her losses have materialised solely 
because of the minor delays in payment and progression of her claim by Allianz. 
Miss Ns solicitors say that the delay in paying the interim payment amounts to a breach of 
contract for which she should receive damages. But they have not cited the specific term 
that Allianz are alleged to have breached in these circumstances, and neither can I see any 
specific term in the policy that sets a specific timeframe in which interim payments will be 
made.
However, I do acknowledge that Company G has no doubt been inconvenienced by the 
delay in processing the interim payment, for which Allianz has awarded £100 compensation. 
I appreciate that Miss N does not consider this to be commensurate to the experience she 
has had, and Im sorry to hear the distress it has caused her. But given that it is Company G 
that is the complainant in this instance, I cannot make an award for the personal distress she 
herself has been caused by the acts or omissions of Allianz. I can only consider the inconvenience caused to her company as the complainant and policy beneficiary. And in the 
circumstances, I consider a payment of £100 to be fair compensation for the four-week delay 
in issuing the interim payment. 
Accountancy costs
Miss N submits that Allianz should cover £750 she spent in accountancy costs for the 
preparation of Company Gs April 18/19 accounts, and £250 for the preparation of its July 
18/19 accounts which she says were required for the claim.
The relevant policy terms and conditions state that the insurer will cover:
The reasonable charges payable by the Insured to their professional accountants for 
producing such particulars or details or other proofs, information or evidence as may 
be required by the Insurer under the terms of Policy condition 6 and reporting that 
such particulars or details are in accordance with the Insureds books of account or 
other business books or documents
The insurer will not pay the insured for
i. Increase in Cost of Working exceeding the sum produced by applying the rate 
of Gross Profit to the amount of the Reduction in Turnover thereby 
avoided.
ii. any sum saved during the indemnity period in respect of such of the charges 
and expenses of the Business payable.
So Company G can only claim accountancy costs under the policy if they had to be incurred 
as a result of evidence being required by the insurer. Allianz say that the April 18/19 
accountancy costs are not covered because the invoice they received relates to normal 
accountancy costs, including Companies House submissions and corporate tax returns. It 
does not appear that these accounts were produced solely due to a request made by the 
insurer, and it seems that these are costs that Company G would have always incurred 
irrespective of the claim. So I do not consider Allianz to have acted unreasonably by 
declining to cover these costs.
In terms of the July 18/19 accounts, Allianz say these were not requested by their loss 
adjuster. So, in line with the policy conditions, they are therefore not obliged to cover such 
costs unless that evidence had specifically been requested by the insurer, which I cannot 
see that it had. 
In summary, I acknowledge that there have been avoidable delays and elements of poor 
handling of Company Gs claim that could have been handled better. But for the complaint 
issues raised up until 5 December 2019, Allianz have awarded a total of £175 compensation, 
which Im satisfied is fair compensation for the inconvenience caused to Company G.
My final decision
Allianz Insurance Plc have made an offer to pay a total of £175.
I conclude that such an offer is fair compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that 
Allianz should pay Company G (if they have not done so already) within 28 days of receiving 
Miss Ns acceptance of this decision.Miss N should note that if she accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, 
and she probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, she rejects the decision, although Company Gs legal rights will 
remain intact, itll purely be a matter between Miss N and Allianz as to whether the £175 
offer still remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the 
offeror after rejection of it has been communicated. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N  on behalf 
of Company G  to accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman