DRN-3238447
The complaint
Mr R complains that esure Insurance Limited mishandled his claim on a motor insurance 
policy.
Where I refer to esure, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold esure 
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
The subject matter of Mr Rs claim and complaint is an executive car made by a premium 
brand car-maker and first registered in 2015 with a 65 plate.
For the year from February 2021, Mr R had the car insured with esure. The policy covered 
the car up to its market value. The policy schedule said that any claim for theft would be 
subject to an excess of £250.00. The policy also cover belongings in the car.
Unfortunately, in April 2021, Mr R reported the theft of the car (and its contents). He didnt 
get it back and esure said the car was a total loss.
In September 2021, esure said the market value of the car had been £17,334.00. Mr R 
complained to esure that the market value of the car had been higher. By a final response 
dated mid-September 2021, esure turned down the complaint. From the valuation of 
£17,334.00 esure deducted the excess of £250.00 and sent Mr R a cheque for the balance 
of £17,084.00.
Mr R brought his complaint to us in late September 2021. He said that esure had said the 
cheque for £17,084.00 was a "full settlement" so he hadnt cashed this cheque. He 
complained that the car had been worth £25,000.00, and esure should pay that amount plus 
belongings and fuel in the car plus interest and compensation for stress.
On 4 October 2021, esure sent Mr R a cheque for £150.00 for personal belongings.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that:
The market value range was £17,023.00  £17,750.00. As esures valuation was in 
this range, it was in line with market value and so fair.
£150.00 was the policy limit for personal belongings in the car.
Mr R disagrees with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The policy documents do not mention that the valuation will be carried out this way.
The valuation does not allow him to purchase another car of the same spec and 
model.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules (DISP). The effect of one of those rules is that  before we can deal with a 
complaint - the consumer mustve first made that complaint to the financial firm and waited 
up to eight weeks for a final response.
Mr Rs complaint about personal belongings is a complaint that post-dates the final 
response. So this final decision doesnt deal with any such complaint. But I note that esure 
has paid £150.00 which is the policy limit.
As far as I can see, Mr R hasnt complained to esure about the time that elapsed between 
the theft in April 2021 and its offer in September 2021. So this final decision doesnt deal 
with any such complaint. But I note that until late August 2021, esure was waiting for a police 
report.
The policy booklet contained a definition as follows:
market value  The market value is the amount you could reasonably have 
expected to sell your car for on the open market immediately before your accident 
or loss. Our assessment of the value is based on cars of the same make and model 
and of a similar age, condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value 
is based on research from motor trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. 
This may not be the price you paid when you purchased the car.
So the policy documents do mention that the valuation will be carried out as at the date of 
the loss and by reference to the trade guides.
In any event, the Financial Ombudsman Service expects insurance companies to value cars 
by reference to retail prices in trade guides. We place less weight on adverts as they contain 
asking prices that may be negotiated downwards.
I wouldnt expect an insurance company to increase or decrease a valuation of a vehicle by 
reference to the amount of fuel in the tank.
Ive looked at the adverts Mr R has sent us, and at online valuations he got from some car- 
buying companies. But I place more weight on the trade guides.
For a car like Mr Rs at the time of the theft, the trade guides contain retail figures as follows:
Cap £17,023.00 
Cazana £17,230.00
Glasss £17,750.00
Parkers £20,935.00
The first three of those valuations are in a narrow range. The other valuation, Parkers, is out 
of line in a way that we often see where there are a number of months between the loss and 
the valuation.
In any event, esures valuation of £17,334.00 fell within the range of all the valuations. So I 
dont consider that it was unfair or unreasonable. So I wont direct esure to increase it.And, of course, I dont find it unfair that esure deducted the excess of £250.00.
Mr R has said that esure sent him the cheque for the balance of £17,084.00 in full and final 
settlement. But he hasnt shown us any letter that used the words full and final. On the 
contrary, The final response included the following:
Accepting our cheque wont affect you if you want to progress your complaint 
further.
So he couldve presented the cheque in September 2021 as an interim payment on account 
and still pursued his complaint with us. I dont see any basis for directing esure to add 
interest at our usual rate.
While I dont doubt that Mr R has found the theft and the claim and the complaint stressful, I 
havent upheld his complaint against esure. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct esure 
to pay compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct esure Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman