DRN-3339126
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy Santander UK Plc wont refund money she was deceived into transferring 
to another person.
What happened
On 8 February 2022 I issued my provisional decision on this complaint explaining that I was 
intending to uphold it in part. I gave both sides the opportunity to provide any further 
submissions before giving my final decision. That provisional decision forms part of my final 
decision and is copied below.
What happened
As part of her submissions, Miss C has provided a lengthy police statement, setting out 
the background to this complaint in considerable detail. Id like to assure Miss C that Ive 
considered this document carefully and in its entirety, but Ive only summarised that 
account, as well as the other background to this complaint, briefly below:
-Miss C was vulnerable after the death of both of her parents with whom she 
had a very close relationship. She inherited around £500,000 from them.
-In the course of purchasing a significant number of vehicles, she met a car 
salesman Ill call B.
-Miss C developed a relationship with B but saw him infrequently  mostly at 
service stations and never at his home.
-B asked for money from Miss C on numerous occasions  often claiming that he 
was struggling financially or was unable to support his son.
-B frequently promised to spend time with Miss C but there would always be a 
reason why he would need to change those plans at the last minute.
-In fact, B was living with another woman and appears to have been involved 
with several others - apparently also extracting significant sums of money 
from them.
-Miss C eventually reported the matter to the police.
-Initially the police refused to take the matter further but, following an 
appeal, I understand investigations are ongoing.
Miss C estimates the value of transfers and gifts that she gave to B between 2017 and 
2019 to be around £80,000, though a little less than £40,000 came from her Santander 
accounts and are the subject of this complaint. I also understand that, following the threat 
of legal action, a relative of B paid Miss C £20,000.
In February 2020, Miss C complained to Santander, but it said the matter was a civil 
dispute between her and B, so it declined to refund her any of the money she lost.
She referred the matter to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. 
They said that the payments that took place prior to the introduction of the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model CRM Code (on 28 May 2019) wouldnt have stood out as being 
so unusual or suspicious that Santander ought to have intervened and questioned Miss C 
about them. In relation to the payments which took place after the introduction of the CRM 
Code, the investigator agreed that the matter was a civil dispute between Miss C and B.
Miss C disagreed, in summary she said:
-The banks failure to pick up on unusual activity on her account goes back 
further than the payments made to B and it should have been alerted to the 
fact she was vulnerable by her significant spending in the years following the 
deaths of her parents.
-The fact B has paid her some money back does not mean his actions werent 
criminal. There is an ongoing investigation and other case law supports that 
merely paying the money back in these circumstances is not enough to 
demonstrate there hasnt been criminal wrongdoing.
-Neither did the fact the fraudster used his real name and was identifiable 
change the criminal intent behind his actions.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to first point out that a conclusion that Miss C was the victim of a scam, 
rather than involved in a civil dispute, does not mean that she would necessarily be 
entitled to a refund of the money she sent to B.
The CRM Code  which sets out a framework under which scam victims should be 
refunded in all but a limited number of circumstances only applies to bank transfers which 
took place after the introduction of the Code on 28 May 2019 which, in this case, is only a 
small fraction of what Miss C sent  less than £1,000.
Prior to the introduction of the CRM Code, the account holder is, in the first instance, 
presumed liable for transactions theyve authorised themselves, even those which they 
may have been tricked into making. So, in relation to the earlier transactions I can only 
consider whether Santander ought to have found the activity on the account so unusual 
and suspicious that it ought to have intervened to prevent Miss C falling victim to financial 
harm from fraud.
Here, I cant say the transactions to B would have stood out as being unusual or suspicious
 the payments to B are generally dwarfed by other spending which takes place on 
the account and theres nothing that otherwise ought to have concerned the bank 
about the payments.
Miss C argues that Santander ought to have questioned her about the frequent 
expensive car purchases which took place even before she met B. She argues that had 
the bank intervened then, she would not have been in a position to encounter B.
This allegation  that the bank ought to have stopped Miss C, not from falling victim to a 
scam, but rather from spending her own money is very different in nature. It doesnt 
appear that Miss C has previously complained about this issue to Santander. It relates to events some of which pre-date Miss C meeting B. As such, Miss C will need to refer 
those matters to Santander to consider as a separate complaint. I will not be 
commenting on whether Santander should have intervened to prevent that spending nor 
whether a failure to do so caused Miss Cs loss in relation to B.
For this complaint, for the reasons Ive explained, that means that Santander doesnt 
have any liability to Miss C for the payments to B which took place before the 
introduction of the CRM Code.
Im left to consider the small number of bank transfers to B which took place after the 
introduction of the CRM Code on 28 May 2019 and whether, in relation to these 
payments, Miss C is afforded its protection. The Code is only applicable to scams and not 
civil disputes. It does not define scam or civil dispute so I see no reason not to give them 
their ordinary meanings and define a scam as a trick or a dishonest scheme and a civil 
dispute as a matter which sits outside of criminal law.
It is not the method used by the fraudster that is important here  but rather what their 
intention was. In this case I think the relevant question is whether B set out to obtain 
money by deceiving Miss C.
Having thought about this matter carefully and in particular having considered Miss Cs 
police statement and the letter she received in response to her appeal of the decision not 
to prosecute B, Im minded to think that this matter is not a civil dispute.
The letter states what is also apparent throughout is that the suspect did knowingly and 
intentionally make false representations in order to make a gain for himself. Several 
examples of this are described. While the need for follow up investigation into these 
matters is noted, like the author of the letter, I think Miss Cs statement gives numerous 
examples of deceit by the third party, deceit which was used to obtain money from her. I 
find her evidence compelling.
So, while I cant know Bs intentions for sure, I think the provisions of the CRM Code 
are relevant here.
Under the CRM Code, a firm must generally provide a refund to victims of APP scams 
unless they can demonstrate that one of a small number of exceptions applies. However, its 
provisions mean that customers who are vulnerable to scams in such a way that it would not 
be reasonable to have expected them to have protected themselves at the time of becoming 
victim of an APP scam, against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they 
suffered should be reimbursed regardless of whether any of the other exceptions to 
reimbursement apply or whether the business was aware of their vulnerability.
Miss C has provided evidence from her counsellor and I think it supports the notion that 
she was vulnerable at the time and, more specifically, vulnerable to this particular scam 
following the death of her parents. It describes how her inability to recognise or act on the 
troubling statements made by B may have been a continuation of her shutting down and 
closing off her emotions following the death of her parents. As such, the counsellors 
statement suggests Miss C was less able to protect herself against the scam because she 
was unable
to recognise and properly understand or act upon the warning signs that B was 
deceiving her.
I understand Miss C has received some money back from B but its not clearly related to any particular transactions and I think there is little risk of Miss C recovering the same 
money twice. So, Im minded to recommend Miss C is refunded those payments which 
were made after 28 May 2019 under the provisions of the CRM Code on the basis that 
she was the victim of a scam and that her vulnerability at the time means Santander 
should provide a refund regardless of whether any of the exceptions to reimbursement 
would otherwise apply. As the money came from Miss Cs current account and, at the time 
the payments were made, it appears likely it would have been used for day-to-day 
spending, I also think 8% simple interest per annum should be paid on this amount.
Finally, I can see Santander contacted the bank which received Miss Cs money on 
the same day she reported what had happened. The receiving bank confirmed that no 
funds remained the following day. Im therefore satisfied Santander did what it could 
to try and recover Miss Cs money.
My provisional decision
Im minded to uphold this complaint in part and instruct Santander UK Plc to pay:
-The value of the disputed authorised push payments to B which took place 
after the introduction of the CRM Code on 28 May 2019 - £795
-Interest at 8% simple per annum on this amount from the date Santander 
decided not to consider Miss Cs claim under the CRM Code to the date of 
settlement.
Santander agreed with my provisional decision. Miss C said she appreciated the findings, 
but had some further points to make, which Ive summarised below:
- If the decision has been made that she was vulnerable, the victim of a scam and 
Santander were at fault, then why should she only be refunded for payments made 
after the introduction of the CRM Code.
- Santander took longer than permitted to decline her claim under the CRM Code and 
the delay in assessing Miss Cs claim might have allowed B to remove money from 
his account. She also felt the claim wasnt handled well initially and a member of staff 
was rude to her.
- Had Santander intervened in the earlier spending that was not related to the scam, 
she wouldnt have lost the money in dispute here. 
- Santander ought to have been aware she was vulnerable because she informed 
them of her circumstances when paying a lump sum towards her mortgage.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered Miss Cs further points, but my decision remains unchanged.
Its important to state that I have only found that Santander ought to have considered Miss 
Cs claim under the CRM Code differently. I have not found that it was at fault for allowing 
the earlier payments to proceed. Im afraid, there was no general obligation on banks to 
refund victims of scams, even those who were vulnerable, prior to the introduction of the 
CRM Code. Ive reviewed the evidence provided by Santander which indicates it declined her claim 
under the CRM Code over the phone on 24 February 2020  within fifteen days of the matter 
first being raised with it.
Santander says it contacted the receiving bank the same day the matter was reported. 
Though I havent seen the request itself, the banks notes suggest this had happened by 24 
February 2020 (at the latest). So, Im satisfied it responded to the claim within the 
timeframes set out in the Code and, given the scam was reported many months after the last 
disputed transaction, I cant say there was a material delay in trying to recover Miss Cs 
money.
The timeframes for responding to a complaint of this nature are essentially the same as 
those set out in the CRM Code for considering a claim. However, a claim under the CRM 
Code and a complaint are not the same thing.
Santanders notes say that a complaint wasnt raised until 18 June 2020, which was 
responded to on 7 August 2020  more than 35 days after it was raised, but within the eight 
weeks allowed for other types of complaint. 
While its unclear whether Miss C believed that Santander were still looking into matters 
between February and June 2020, I cant see that a delay would have had a meaningful 
impact on Miss C  Santander had already contacted the receiving bank and communicated 
a decision about her claim. In relation to the accusation that a member of Santanders staff 
was rude to her and the investigation wasnt handled well, as far as I can see, this is the first 
time Miss C has raised this argument and Santander hasnt had the opportunity to respond 
to it. But in any case, Ive not seen any evidence to support these allegations and so Im not 
persuaded to find against Santander on that point.
Finally, I understand Miss C has started another complaint about the earlier non-scam 
payments from her account. Whether any alleged failure to intervene by Santander into that 
spending has caused Miss C loss (including the loss which is the subject matter of this 
complaint) necessarily involves examining those earlier events which fall outside of this 
complaint. So, I cant comment on this further. 
Similarly, the allegation that Santander knew, or ought to have known, that Miss C was 
vulnerable doesnt change my decision. Thats because Ive concluded that the payments to 
B were unremarkable and there would have been no reason for Santander to question them. 
It follows that this point relates to the question of whether Santander should have intervened 
in the earlier, more substantial, spending.
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is unchanged from my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Santander UK Plc to pay:
- The value of the disputed authorised push payments to B which took place 
after the introduction of the CRM Code on 28 May 2019 - £795
- Interest at 8% simple per annum on this amount from the date Santander 
decided not to consider Miss Cs claim under the CRM Code to the date of 
settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman