DRN-3052913
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly applied an early repayment 
charge (ERC) when they repaid their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had residential mortgages with Barclays on two properties. One property was 
later used as a holiday let. Mr and Mrs S said they told Barclays this. 
In 2018, Barclays recommended that Mr and Mrs S should take a fixed rate on the holiday 
let property. An ERC applied until 31 July 2021.
In 2019, following an application to remortgage Mr and Mrs Ss main residence, Barclays 
said it wasnt prepared to allow the holiday let property to continue on a residential 
mortgage. It told Mr S that it would need to be converted to a buy-to-let mortgage. Yet, 
Barclays subsequently declined the application as it was used as a residence for part of the 
year. That left Mr and Mrs S with no choice other than to take a mortgage with another 
lender. Barclays applied an ERC of £11,981.91 and they incurred other fees in connection 
with the remortgage.
The investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said the ERC wasnt fairly 
applied and Barclays should refund it with interest.
Mr and Mrs S accepted what the investigator said. Barclays did not. It made a number of 
points, including:
Mr and Mrs S stated on the 2012 application that the property would be used wholly for 
residential purpose.
Although Mr and Mrs S contacted Barclays regarding permission to let in 2013, no forms 
were returned, so it would not have been aware of the change in property use.
In 2015 there was contact with Mr and Mrs F and it was confirmed there was no 
permission to let.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr and Mrs S initially took out a residential mortgage. Mr and Mrs S 
said that Barclays ought to have known that they had been using the property as a holiday 
let for some time:
It was discussed as part of another mortgage application, including using the income 
from the holiday let to support that application.
It was discussed during the mortgage advice for the 2018 product switch.
Mr S had discussed this with his Premier account manager on several occasions.
Mr and Mrs S have provided a clear, consistent and plausible account that Barclays ought to 
have been aware of what they were doing. Given that the holiday let property was in the 
same village as their main residence, surely this ought to have raised some questions from 
Barclays about the occupation of both properties. Barclays had a number of opportunities to 
do so when it gave Mr and Mrs S advice.
Barclays hasnt out together a persuasive or cohesive argument about why the ERC has 
been applied fairly. The fact that permission to let was discussed, support that Mr and Mrs S 
werent withholding the basis on which they held the property. Barclays hasnt shown what 
information it gave (or likely would have given) to Mr and Mrs S about that other than its 
standard letter(s). And the notes of the conversation are so short it is difficult for me to come 
to any findings about what was discussed or the context of those discussions.
Overall, I consider it was more likely than not that Barclays ought reasonably to have known 
that Mr and Mrs S were using the property in question as a holiday let. At least it ought to 
have questioned the basis on which they owned two properties a short distance from each 
other.
In view of that I dont consider it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to tie Mr and Mrs S 
into a fixed rate when, if it had acted reasonably, it ought to have known that they wouldnt 
have qualified for either a residential or buy-to-let mortgage.
Even if that werent the case, I agree with the investigator that it wasnt fair for Barclays to 
apply the ERC in the circumstances here. Barclays was entitled to set its own criteria and 
not offer mortgages on properties that were used as holiday lets. Mr and Mrs S were 
technically in breach of the terms of their mortgage. But it knew that Mr and Mrs S were tied 
into the mortgage and had no choice but to repay the mortgage. I dont think it was fair to 
apply the ERC in those circumstances.
Barclays suggests that it was ultimately [Mr and Mrs Ss] choice to move to accommodate 
the new application. This suggests that Mr and Mrs S elected to switch mortgages. But 
Barclays told them they were in breach of their mortgage and had declined their application 
for a buy-to-let mortgage. There is no evidence that Barclays told Mr and Mrs S they could 
continue with the mortgage until the fixed rate had ended. And if that was the case then 
Barclays ought to have told Mr and Mrs S this to meet its obligation to communicate in a way 
that was clear, fair and mot misleading.
Further, under section 10 of the mortgage offer it said what happens when you dont want 
this mortgage anymore? And explains that an ERC is payable in those circumstances. But 
Mr and Mrs S didnt want to repay the mortgage. They only did so because they no longer 
qualified for one with Barclays. 
I consider it wasnt fair for Barclays to apply the ERC in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint. It should refund the ERC with interest.
I dont consider that Barclays should meet any other costs that Mr and Mrs S might have 
incurred in remortgaging to a new lender. I say that as they were in breach of the terms of 
the mortgage and would have had to remortgage and incur those costs at some point.
Mr and Mrs S have also been caused distress and inconvenience because of what 
happened. They had the distress of finding out that they had to remortgage and incur a significant ERC  and the inconvenience of going through a buy-to-let application that was 
never going to succeed. But in saying that they have also had the benefit of the interest rate 
on a residential mortgage for a number of years that it appears they didnt qualify for. That is 
not to say that this was a result of anything they have done wrong. Rather, they have 
(unknowingly) benefitted from the mistake. But the savings they made outweigh the 
amount I would have awarded in compensation for any distress and inconvenience. So Im 
not going to make a separate award for that.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should:
Refund the ERC of £11,981.91.
Refund the interest that Mr and Mrs S have paid on the above amount that was added to 
their new mortgage  at an interest rate of 2.6% from the date the ERC was applied to 
date of settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman