DRN-2568635
The complaint
Mrs W says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs W was sold the policy in 2002 over the phone, around seven years after taking out her 
store card. The PPI covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
I sent Mrs W and AXA a provisional decision on 20 January 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
This sale was nearly two decades ago, so I think its completely understandable that there 
isnt still a recording of the phone call involved. I also think its understandable that Mrs W 
doesnt still remember buying PPI, not least since buying insurance is not often memorable 
and this sale was particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have 
happened based on the evidence I have.
From what Ive seen of the telephone sales process from the time, the policy would have 
been set out as an optional extra that Mrs W could take out or turn down. And Mrs W 
wouldve known she didnt have to take out PPI to get approved for her store card, since 
shed already had the card for a number of years by that point. Ive not seen any wider 
problems with AXAs sales process from the time, nor any evidence which shows that Mrs W 
was misled here. So I think its most likely that AXA made Mrs W aware she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if 
she no longer recalls doing so after so long.
AXA didnt give Mrs W tailored advice about buying PPI, so they didnt have to check if it 
was right for her. They did have to give Mrs W enough information to decide for herself 
whether the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs W about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like Mrs W was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. The PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of Mrs Ws work benefits and offered her more comprehensive 
cover, especially for when her benefits reduced to just a fraction of her normal pay or ran 
out. It also meant she wouldnt have to go to the extreme of selling off her assets just to pay 
her store card. And while I understand her family may have been happy to help, there was 
always the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. So the policy could have been 
useful for Mrs W in case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly 
basis, so Mrs W could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better 
information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
4 February 2021. But neither Mrs W nor AXA sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman